ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:41]] They registered cards, accentuates, cards, and 413 members of the National Assembly Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, according to the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are now going to consider a very important and responsible bill on the judiciary and the status of judges. The rapporteur is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna. What's the procedure? Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Come on, let's do this one-on-one, not all of them. Victor Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I and the People's Deputy Moisik have, in the order prescribed by law, registered draft decree number 6550/P-1 on 10 June 2010, respectively, to which we request the Supreme Council to forward Bill 6450 to the Venice Commission to obtain a corresponding conclusion on the bill. In this regard, I would like to propose first to consider the draft ruling that I have just mentioned and then to consider if there is no positive decision by the Supreme Council, then we will go directly to a bill that deals with changes to the judiciary and the status of judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u3	As far as I know, and we got an answer from the Justice Minister that the Ministry of Justice, the government, was sending this document to the Venice Commission. [[Minister of Justice here present]] So I don't think we have any reason, dear colleagues, to make the right decision. And I have such an offer, dear colleagues, that we don't now. For the time being, sit down so that we can begin a normal, organized review of this document, and I suggest that we give the Chief Justice three minutes, all the more so, that he may speak to the Minister of Justice, and then we move on to the consideration of this bill as amended. I would like to vote in favour of this proposal: to give the floor three minutes before the beginning of the second reading of the bill, the Head of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice, so that we can then understand what coordinate system we are working on. Please vote. [[16:04:50]] For 279 Decision taken. I invite the Head of the Supreme Court, Onopenek Vasil Vasilovic, to the speech, then I will ask the Minister of Justice, Lavrinović Alexander Volodymirovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, is already aware that the decision on this project has been taken. In the absence of time, I will not discuss the meaningful situation of this project. Despite normal and progressive conditions, the project contains a large number of legally unacceptable novels. These novels give reason to say that the project has nothing to do with genuine judicial reform. In its context, it has a completely different direction: to obtain an independent and obedient court. After this law has become effective in Ukraine, there will be no separate branch of authority, such as the court. According to various estimates, some 20 provisions of this project are in direct conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. This is particularly true of the decline in the status of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and, in fact, the destruction of it as a judicial body. Obviously unconstitutional is the establishment of a thorough specialized court and the creation of a new Supreme Court on civil and criminal matters. It is quite contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine to grant the High Council of Justice the right to appoint the heads of the courts. There are many experienced parliamentarians in this room. Try to recall when the last draft to be tabled for the second reading was 25 pages of the comments of the General Legal Office. And the observations, not technical, but conceptual ones, that end in a categorical conclusion because of unconstitutionality, legal insubordination and contradiction of many of its positions. The project, the conclusion is that it needs substantial work. This is also highlighted by the leading academics, academics, professors, doctors of legal science in an open letter to the President, a parliament published in today's Voice of Ukraine. The key positions of the project are not in line with the international standards of the Council of Europe, which calls on the Ukrainian authorities to refrain from final approval of the bill until the final conclusions of the Venice Commission are reached. Where and Why are we in a hurry? Why is it that, without exaggeration, the government law has been introduced into the final approval room without the ability to think about it, at any rate, the main thing. For me, the answer is clear: Because this is how a few people want to lay the foundation for the exploitation of the courts in their own interests. Any reform must be a step forward. The reform of the court, as a key institution for the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, must be adopted for the people and for the interests of the people, the whole of society. Dear National Deputies! What I can do is to urge you to think about the consequences of today's decision not in favour of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, not even for the judges who are already so threatened by this judicial reform and are already afraid to make legal decisions. Think about whether Ukraine can develop further as democratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u6	Yes, thank you. Think about whether Ukraine can develop further as a democratic and legal state, if it does not have an independent court, consider the legal chaos that will inevitably occur in the state as a result of the adoption of this imperfect bill. And you don't have to be happy with the illusion that everything can be fixed and corrected in a year or two. I fear that the destructive force of this bill will long reject Ukraine back in its democratic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u7	Thank you. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! I had the great privilege of leading the working group that prepared this draft law, which included the proposals of hundreds of lawyers from Ukraine and international experts. I can say that this project, of course, cannot satisfy each of the legal professions and cannot satisfy the entire legal system in operation today, just as it cannot satisfy the wishes of all international experts. This is an objective thing, since the vast majority of these desires have the primary source of the need to make changes to our nation’s basic law. And if. I have just mentioned the Head of the Supreme Court's remarks coming to us from the European institutions, particularly the Venice Commission, and I want to tell you that the vast majority of them are referring to the fact that the Supreme Council here in this room has given up the appointment of judges and the release of judges. This is the case with the President of Ukraine. But these are the constitutional norms of our state, and we have taken the fullest account of the possibilities to limit the political or corruption influence that is born in any state body. It's predicted. The President took a conscious step by giving up any powers he had under the law he had under the Constitution, so that the appointment of judges in Ukraine would take place exclusively as a ceremonial act by the President. The same is true of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Another questionable proposal, of course, pertaining to the powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. We must remember that in 2001 the first steps of judicial reform were taken. It's this system that's being planned right now that's already been adopted in this room. All the differences are in the name of one court. Instead of the name The Court of Cassation of Ukraine now, according to the constitutional requirement, it is called the Supreme Court of Criminal and Civil Affairs. So no revolutionary steps are being proposed. The fact that that name did not meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stated the presence of the higher specialized courts of the Supreme Court, was the reason that this court was not created today. He was duly evaluated in the Constitutional Court. When we take steps to implement this bill, we will bring justice closer to the citizens, we will make it possible to have a legally defined position and a decision that will be the last and the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u9	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u10	We will reduce substantially the number of cases that are being dealt with in the European Court of Human Rights today. And for two days, as before, I held a meeting in Strasbourg with the heads of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights and the governing board of the Committee of Ministers, who are working to ensure the enforcement of European Court decisions. I can tell you that these steps that are proposed in the project are understood and supported by the vast majority of people. Where there will be a need for improvement, we will improve after the possibility and political will to change the Basic Law of our State. I ask you today to adopt a decision that fundamentally reforms the trials of the courts in Ukraine and will allow Ukrainian citizens to obtain better judicial protection than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u11	Dear colleagues! So the output positions are sounding. Let's get to work. I have only one proposal for all of us, to the Supreme Council: when we vote on the amendments, to consider them, and at the final adoption, let's do one thing so that we don't ruin the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because this law also proposes amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everything about the Rules will be deleted, it will not affect the body of the law, and we will be determined to make a decision. The rule is the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] There will be no procedures. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the report of Novíkov's Julia Volodymyrovna. Let's start working. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, this is about to go into discussion. We're in second reading mode, as amended, working. Let's do it this way. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I see you've come to work today, I see. Yeah, I saw her. One minute, please, from the factions and hold yourself still. We're going to vote now, we're going to deprive you of your right to participate in this session, and we want you to behave normally. Be normal. Please, from the factions. Vladimir Moses, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u12	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine”. Dear Head, your fellow national MPs, of course, have authority to carry out the reform, to show their vision of judicial reform, and no one takes that right away from you. We draw your attention to what the Constitution is, is a dozen decisions of the Constitutional Court, which has determined the position of unconstitutional ones that you today make to the text of the law. But another procedural norm is feared, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The law was registered on May 31st, listen, June 3rd was accepted as a basis, a thousand 700 proposals and about half a dozen of my, none counted. The table has no motive for amendments, and worse, there is no motive for rejecting our amendments. Tell us where we're going. The text that's in the room today is half different from the text that the President of Ukraine gave. What did you send to the Venice Commission, tell me? Who saw that text? So, Vladimir Mihajlovich, there's a procedure, there's the Order of Sweden, Moses, on the decision of the Supreme Council to direct the bill to the Venice Commission, come on, take your time. Something's holding you back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u13	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u14	You're being suppressed, you're being suppressed by local elections, the Referendum Act is being suppressed. What's your hurry? You've been here for 10 years. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, who's coming from. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u16	Well, thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to draw your attention and colleagues to the following circumstances. There is an article in the Rules that you want to keep, 116, which cannot be amended by the second reading of articles that were not considered in the first reading. Thus, there are some 50 articles in this table that are subject to changes and amendments that have not been considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, I understand you may not be respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u17	I'm sorry. I respect you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u18	No, no, thanks, I know. Vladimir Mikhailovich, or up to 50 articles, has been amended to include those that were not considered in the first reading. There is a resolution of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk’s project, where he asks you to be responsible for keeping this article of the Rules. And then there's the next one. There is a Constitutional Court decision number 17 in 2002.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u19	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u20	Thank you. of 17.10.2002, according to which the Supreme Council is empowered to enact laws, to implement other constitutionally defined powers provided that there is a plenary meeting of the number of deputies necessary for the decision to be taken. In the hall today, I emphasize, MPs, not cards, 100 deputies, so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u21	Thank you. Who's gonna be from the regionals? Bondik? Please. From the factions of the regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u22	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Visitors, Honorable Fellows! You know, the law is necessary because, first of all, it's urgent in time. Secondly, society expects us to have an influential, normal democratic, accessible justice, and this law guarantees it. Yes, there are certain machinities in this law, but as we said at the conference in Odessa, there is no limit to improvement. Let us adopt such a law, and we will improve. Secondly, our colleagues in the important faction, who are opposed, say that there are many amendments. Yeah? Indeed, because the law is fundamental, many amendments, but, colleagues, so come to the committee, there stand your ground, there contradict us, enter into a discussion, and in the discussion we would have had the opportunity to consider or disregard your amendments. As far as I can remember, there were only representatives of the Supreme Court and that was the representative of the Council of Judges, Philipczyk, the head of the Administrative Chamber and managing matters from the Supreme Court of Commerce. Other deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u23	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u24	There were no other deputies. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, who are willing to improve these walls before, need to work and work, adopt the law, as decided by the Supreme Council. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u25	Thank you. Is there no more than the factions willing to speak? Dear colleagues, regarding the suggestions made in the speeches made by the national deputies, particularly Vladimir Moysik. There are grounds for caution. It's a great law. About the draft decision you made with Victor Dmitrovich. So let's think about it this way. Now we're going to go to the amendments, we're going to consider the amendments, and before we put the second reading to the vote, we're going to vote on your proposal. It's not today. Now we don't have an item to talk about how you propose, and what to send to the Venice Commission, because there's already one document in the original edition that's been sent, and now let's go through the amendments and see what's left of this document. A logical question? That's logical. Do you have an insistence? To preserve our construct, I'm going to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a decision on this. Regarding the suggestions of a colleague, Sergey Sassa. You can hear the offer very much. But why are you, your esteemed colleagues, including the author of the initiative, not backing my proposal to accept the appropriate draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that, if, in preparing for the second reading, amendments to the other articles have been made to the law, compared to those discussed in the first reading, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should make a single decision not to allow such a law to be considered in the second reading. You didn't want to vote, but you didn't want to vote. So let's vote tomorrow. That's it. Dear colleagues, so let's not teach each other life, and now let's start a routine, hard job that may be causing it right away, but we, this job, have to do: look at the amendments. Lie down, my dear fellow, let's work. Let's move on to the bill. Thirdly, I invite to the rostrum the head of the Committee on Justice's Subcommittee on Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, before your second reading, the draft Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, introduced by the President of Ukraine, is proposed. The bill, I want to emphasize, was developed by leading scientists, representatives of the judiciary, public organizations, national deputies, representatives of state authorities. Even before the adoption of the bill, it was the subject of discussion of a wide range of legal communities. During the preparation for the second reading of the bill, 1 thousand 724 amendments were made. Of these, 395 are counted. Declined - 1 thousand 329. Well, this statistic answers questions about the text, a substantial change in the text of the bill. It is not much different from what was given in the first reading. The preparation took into account virtually all the recommendations of the Venice Commission that came in 2001 and 2007 and in March 2010, which are not contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Two meetings of the subcommittee and committee hearings were held on this subject. On June 30, 2010, the Committee on Justice considered a bill at its meeting. I want to point out that all of this happened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It was possible for all those who had made their amendments to stand up for them to be present at the committee’s meeting with representatives of the judicial corps, representatives of the opposition. By its decisions, the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in second reading and in general as a law. In fact, this bill concludes the process, think about it, which started 18 years ago when the concept of judicial reform was first adopted. In fact, this bill introduces reform in two separate directions: the judiciary legislation and the status of judges and, most importantly, procedural legislation. Indeed, such an approach is the only systemic, reasonable and, I believe, the only faithful one. Dear colleagues, of course, the adoption of this bill guarantees the preservation of the independence of the judicial branch of power in Ukraine, an important step towards sending, indeed, just justice to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, so we move immediately to making a decision according to. In general, huh? Let's do some repairs. If you don't mind, we'll be working then. The first amendment is included. Second amendment counted. Microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, you have said much about the Law of the Rules. Thus, the Law on the Rules says that such a bill, which has been issued to the deputies today, is to be issued 10 days earlier. It's published today, two volumes, I remind you. As far as I'm concerned. It's me. We don't have any conclusions and arguments here, you see, because we were in a hurry. It should read “the foundation and the justification”. So my text in the second paragraph of my amendment states that all judges and persons who provide for their activities should be citizens of Ukraine who are citizens for 10 years do not have dual citizenship. This position is not accounted for anywhere. Although it is written that partially counted. So, Julius Volodymyrically, I ask you to explain in which article it says that for ten years they have no double, I emphasize, citizenship. Because now there are cases where citizens have, starting with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u30	Answer. The amendment of the First People’s Deputy of Carmazin is partially taken into account. Part of the need to number parts of the bill and part of the need for persons serving the judicial system to be citizens of Ukraine. In particular, included in article 91, where there was a regulatory omission regarding the fact that a member of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges should be a citizen of Ukraine. Moreover, the idea of amendment is already in the separate articles of the bill that regulates the activities of judges in the judicial system. An unaccounted-for amendment to the need for all judges must have websites. Exclusion in the name of the qualification commission “above” is not principled and this is also not taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u31	Are you insisting on this amendment? If you insist, I'm putting an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u32	This was included in individual articles of the bill, and I also called you article 91, and there are other articles that take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u33	This was reflected in the following text. Don't insist, Yuri Anatolyevich, on this one. Don't insist. The second is counted, the third is counted, the fourth is counted, the fifth is counted, the sixth is counted. What's the correction? Third? Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! In my view, despite the fact that virtually all the key points are taken into account in the Preamble, the very important point that is relevant, which is in the amendment of my and the group of national deputies, which relates to the order in which the judge takes office and the points relating to bringing the judge to disciplinary responsibility, this dedicated individual chapters of this law, have not actually entered. In our view this is a fundamental point we believe that in this way our amendment would allow us to define the law in general and correspond to the key position of the bill. So I would ask that my amendment and my colleagues be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u35	I'm voting on amendment three. [[16:28:32]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Amendment nine. Baburin. Not counted. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u36	The words “independent and impartial” are proposed in part 1 of article 1, since the principle of division of power does not presuppose the independence and impartiality of judges. They don't need those words there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, the committee did not support this amendment. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputy Baburin. Please vote. [[16:29:31]] Z-91 Correction not supported. Amendment 11. Yuri Prokopchuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u38	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Your Honor, the case here is that the judicial authority is being implemented by judges through the execution of justice. There are some goods that can be implemented, and so it is known that today, unfortunately, we do not always have everything in the judicial branch, as they say, in order and indeed goes into effect, the execution of court judgments, the implementation of other court decisions, and so on. And my amendment is that judicial authority is exercised, it will be more accurate, logical and correct in terms of Ukrainian literary business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u39	Julia Volodymyr, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u40	The committee rejected this amendment, because they are implementing judicial authority, is more correct in terms of stylism, do not exercise judicial authority, I explain why. Because then the word “implementation ” is used in terms of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u41	I'm voting on Amendment 11. [[16:30:54]] For-53 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Is Jury Carmazin 14 rejected? Are you insisting on her? Microphone, Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! In the 13th amendment, which is edited, but it's clear that there were seven points in my amendment, and only three points are included, it's clearly not counted at all. I've been talking about the unity of the judiciary and this is the basis for organizing the activities of the courts, this is the unity of the judiciary we're going to talk about when we consider the role and place of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Is it necessary at all? Should it be destroyed as it is done in this project? And that's where I said that the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all the legal relationships that occur in the state is a constitutional norm, and somehow it doesn't reflect here. Here I propose to change the title of article 2 by placing it in the wording “the task of judicial authority”. Because it is now called “the task of the court”. And since we write in the preceding article that we have and recognize judicial authority, there is a task in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! I'm putting to the vote Amendment 14 of Yuri Carmazin. [[16:32:30.]] For-49 Correction not supported. Let's move on to the 17th Amendment, Vladimir Romanovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u44	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Deputies! I point out to you and our constituents that the review of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of Judges is a grave violation of our law, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then they're violating people's rights to legal protection, which I'm going to talk about in other ways. What, though, is involved in this amendment? July Volodymyrna, look, please, in my amendment, I reproduced the text that was adopted in the first reading, and the final text reads: “The court, by exercising justice on the principles of the rule of law, guarantees everyone the right to a fair trial, ” but it does not sound from a legal point of view, nor from a philosophical point of view. Look, and if there's a chance, count it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u45	Well, if you're reading, essentially, there's no change at all. Rejected, since the proposed term of interest of legal persons, the interests of society and the state are not defined by law. And we're going here in the technique of legal terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u46	I bet on the vote of Amendment 17 of Vladimir Moses. [[16:34:15]] For-33 No correction supported. 20th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Sphenov. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. 23rd. Don't insist. Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, 27. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u47	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland's Party, Yulia Timoshenko's Block. It is suggested that article 4 itself be clarified in the following wording: “Legislative legislation and the status of judges: “The judiciary and status of judges of Ukraine is determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, this law, the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act and other laws.” In its original form, or in what is proposed, it is only about the fact that the status of judges is determined in Ukraine by the Constitution of Ukraine and by this law. What about other laws? About the Constitutional Court? How are they regulated? How are these matters regulated? I believe that this amendment needs to be adopted, as it defines the very laws under which justice is carried out in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u48	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 27. [[16:35:37]] For-39 Correction not supported. Well, the exact same amendment was 28 Yuri Carmazin, so there's no reason to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u49	Well, since the previous amendment was almost unvoted, 39 got. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I ask you to justify the 29th amendment, it's bigger here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're obviously in a great hurry to watch football, but I'm afraid for the fate of the state. So I'm going to base the 28th, the 29th within one time. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the system and the organization of the judiciary, we correctly record, are governed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Court Act, this law and other laws of Ukraine. And I propose, including making the Law on the Non-execution of Decisions, responsible for the failure of decisions, including the Constitutional Court. And here I propose further introduction of Article 4, which will be called the Rule of Law. The court is governed by the principle of the rule of law, according to which a person, his rights and freedoms are recognized as the highest values and determine the content and direction of the State. The Court applies the rule of law, taking into account the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. Appeal to a court for the protection of human rights and freedoms and a citizen directly on the basis of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u51	Yes, finish, Yuri Anatoliyovich, finish your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u52	I'm going on. Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, refusing to deal with and resolve matters for reasons of incompleteness, ambiguity, contradiction, or a lack of legislation that regulates disputes. You know, for years, we've had some of our classics say that the rule of law is the main cornerstone. And this is where we and this judicial reform was to be done. That's why I'm asking you to put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u53	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'm betting on the vote of 29 of Yuri Carmazin's amendment. [[16:38:01]] For-51 Correction not supported. 31 repairs? Yuri Carmazin's microphone. Dear colleagues, attention, this is a serious amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that article 5 be presented in such an editorial. Justice in Ukraine is done solely by the courts by means of civil cases, household cases, administrative, criminal cases, administrative offences, constitutional jurisdiction. In the exercise of justice, the courts exercise the authority of the judicial authorities. The case before the courts is dealt with by a judge individually or by a college composed of judges and national jurymen. And in matters defined by this law, justice is done by a jury. And here's the attention, distinguished national MPs. The jury court enforces the power of the people to exercise justice through its representatives united in the jury. The professional judge arranges for the trial and the verdict to be handed down by the jury. It is not possible to narrow the jurisdiction of the jury and restrict the rights of the jury. The jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the jury may be extended by law. That's what I'm offering, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u55	Finish up, Yuri Anatolyovich, this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose to specify the standard of the Constitution, which is still dead. We made a jury, but it doesn't work. So I would like to write that the delegation of the function of the courts, as well as the addition of these functions to other bodies or officials, such as this has now been in the draft Tax Code, is not allowed. Individuals who have owned the execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you can put an amendment to the vote. I'll bet the vote on 31 amendments. [[16:40:10]] For-63 No correction supported. Thirty-three amendments to Alexander Babourin. Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u58	This amendment proposes the title of article 6 in such an edition. The independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Because article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the principle of the independence of judges, not of courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u59	I bet on the vote of Amendment 33. [[16:41:00]] For-43 No correction supported. Amendment of Sphinx 35. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Amendment 36, Babourin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u60	I insist on what. In general, my amendments have been tested and this action is not to be continued. My amendments can be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u61	Thank you. Vladimir Moses. Microphone, please. 37 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u62	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Julia Volodymyrna, in the column “proposal” is shown in part two, and here goes the language to part one of article 6. You wrote that the judges are independent of any illegal influence, illegal -- look at part one. The Constitution speaks the language that influences judges in any way is prohibited, because legal influence can also be dangerous, in any way. What's more, there's a structure set out, which is described in the Constitution of Ukraine and you don't need to, I think, change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u63	I'll bet you vote on Amendment 37. [[16:42:27]] For-44 Correction not accepted. 38 revisions. Yuri Prokopchuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u64	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. Here the word “e” is suggested in part two of article 6 to replace the word “may be. ” This will be more accurate and more stylistic. So please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u65	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 38. [[16:43:06]] For-29 Correction not supported. Valérie Bondick insists on his 39th amendment? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u66	Dear Chairman! Dear reporter! Dear colleagues! I made this amendment with only one motive. Because the question of justice is a little wider than the authority of judges. What I mean is, what motive. You see, justice is done by both the secretaries of the court and the assistants and the judges. As part of the judicial system of justice. That is why it deals with the rules of criminal law. If there's pressure on the judges, only. The idea of a judge. And if it's justice, it's all the officers of the court. That's why I insist on this amendment. And then I don't insist on making any adjustments so I don't waste any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u67	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 39. [[16:44:08]] For-44 Correction not supported. Amendment 40. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u68	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You have an amendment. This is about adding a little bit to improve the amendment that was adopted in the first reading. I propose that, in such an editorial, part three of this article: “Involvement in the exercise of justice, influence on the courts or judges, national jurors, jurors in any way, disrespect for the courts or judges, the collection, storage, use and dissemination of information orally, in writing or otherwise, with the aim of damaging the authority of the court, the honour and dignity of the judge or the influence of the impartiality of the court shall be prohibited and the responsibility established by law shall be borne.” This is about not only gathering information, such as the law enforcement agencies, but not influencing the dignity of the judge. It's not in the correction. That's why I wanted to make it better. And I don't understand why we turned her down, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u69	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 40. Well, the committee has turned down, well, you're going to torture the reporter, your honorary colleagues! [[16:45:34]] For-23 No correction supported. The following amendment 46, George. And 42nd, it's counted. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, a very loving man who looks with an impartial eye, will see that this amendment is not included. Why? Because I propose to supplement Article 6, just 6, with new parts of the fifth, sixth, seventh, meaning: “The State budget of Ukraine sets out in separate lines the cost of maintaining the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the higher specialized courts, and the appeals and local courts. [[Underlining]] The amount of costs in the State budget for the maintenance of the courts cannot be reduced in the current year. The courts are legal persons, they have seals with the image of the State coat of arms of Ukraine and their appointment.” It is very important that financial independence is added to the independence that is being declared, financial independence added, and that it can only be guaranteed by such a record. Another record does not guarantee the independence of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u71	Yuri Anatoliyovich, these changes, this idea taken into account by the committee, the amendment is simply taken into account in an editorial way, since the proposed positions are already contained in the section governing the organizational provision of judges. So there's no need to overload these general positions; we've taken this further into account in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u72	I'm betting on a vote of 42. [[16:47:35]] For-29 No correction supported. Yuri Prokopchuk, 46th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u73	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, part two of article 7, after the words “Ukraine’s courts of first appeal” add: “that court” and the words “the Supreme Court of Ukraine” to exclude. So that's the same way we're stylistically getting in order, because it's where it's written and what it's done with us. So please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u74	Well, this amendment is rejected, because the Supreme Court under this law is not a cassation, so it's so isolated, not because. and done in the same way that it was written in the editor before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u75	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 46. [[16:48:50]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 47 revisions. Volodymyr Moysik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u76	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, it is in such an uncharacteristic article that a system of change in justice in Ukraine is not worthy. What do you mean? Noted by his colleague Prokopchuk, the courts of the first appeal, cassation, and Supreme Court of Ukraine. So the Supreme Court of Ukraine is out of court. So that we do not become weary of each other’s heads, if these changes do not appear in the 7th article, all the following articles have no meaning. That's why I made an amendment, Julia Volodymyrna, “the local, appeal, higher specialized courts and the Supreme Court,” so that the court can be the judicial institution referred to in the following articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u77	Well, the remark that the Supreme Court remains outside the jurisdiction of the judiciary is not fair. And, indeed, this amendment is a principle, it's a principle, because the Supreme Court is no longer a focal point, but the Supreme Court will deal with matters, and this law determines under what circumstances it will review cases that have been accepted and passed into the higher specialized courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u78	I'll bet you a vote of 47. [[16:50:32]] For-24 The amendment was not accepted. Sergey Sobolev, Amendment 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u79	Sobolev, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear colleagues, in my view, this article is indeed decisive. Let us take the Constitution of Ukraine, article 125, and read clearly what is written in article 125. We just rewrote this article, with the same wording directly from the Constitution, because there is no one to rewrite the Constitution by law. No one's allowed. That is why I draw your attention to you, to the President of Ukraine and to each of us, the national MPs were approached by such distinguished persons as Sirenko Vasil Fedorovich, Oprzysko, Romovska, Omelyanko, Sterbina. [[All of them know him – MP 3, 4 summons]] I can list these academics in a mailing list, which has been printed in the Voice of Ukraine for a very long time. The same comments are found in previous remarks of the Venice Commission. We can't legally copy the Constitution. So I insist that this article be one to another, as it is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u80	Note that this article and the proposed concept of the construction of the judicial system by this law do not correspond to the Constitution or the conclusions of the Venice Commission are not fair and faithful. This law corresponds to the Constitution in part of the construction of the court system, and this amendment is rejected on the grounds that the Higher and Specialised Courts are now a focal point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u81	I'm betting on a vote of 48 amendments. [[16:52:34]] For-45 No correction supported. Yuri Prokopchuk, 49th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u82	I insist. Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. You know, honourable colleagues, and especially I appeal to the citizens of Ukraine right now. In an effort to destroy the judiciary and rule out the Supreme Court as a higher court office, we come to such, excuse me, fears that we simply and simply uphold full justice in Ukraine. I don't know who didn't like that amendment, which was supposed to be the norm of the law, which is where the courts can go. Well, for example, this is the same thing as part three of article 7. The words “be of any level” because there can be recourse to a court of any level and anywhere. And I know that instead of the Supreme Court, all of our cases are settled in a cave trial. And there's a clarification: switch to the courts of the first appeal. That clarification: “the Supreme Court of Ukraine”. That's exactly what the reverend reporter was talking about. Why it's rejected, I don't know. I insist on making this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u83	Well, the comment was on two things: the concept of the law and the amendment. By the concept of the law, I've already told you. I believe that this building of the judicial system -- and this is the opinion of the committee -- which is proposed will suit the interests of the citizens. And that's all we care about, here we have to take care of, here in the session room. And as far as you're concerned, it doesn't actually have any ideas, and it's more of a successful editor, a more concise editor. It's simple and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u84	I'm betting on a vote of 49. [[16:54:34]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. The following changes. Yuri Carmazin, 57th. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u85	55th, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u86	So the 55th is an editorial. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u87	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't want you to look at the 52nd, my offer. My suggestion is to write a part of the first article of article 11 as follows: “No one may be limited in the right to receive oral or written information in court about the date, time and place of the case and the court’s decision. Anyone who is not a party to the case shall have the right to free access to a judicial decision in a manner established by law.” What's out of the question? It is not taken into account that “no one may be limited in his right to receive oral or written information about the date, time, and place of consideration. We now have, using the presence of the Supreme Court Chief Justice, the heads of the higher courts, a disgraceful practice has been established, where the right of citizens to receive this information is limited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u88	This law is called upon to put an end to such shameful practices in the courts of Ukraine. This is not taken into account because the provisions of this law do not impose restrictions on receiving proposed information, which duplicates what we do not limit, there is no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u89	It will work, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u90	I'm betting on the 55th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[16:56:32]] For-25 Correction not supported. 57th Amendment, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u91	Moses is not pleased with 52nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u92	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u93	Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u94	Moses ’ microphone. About what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u95	Moses, 52nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u96	That's how it's accounted for. Moses ’ microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u97	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Volodymyr Mikhailovich, she's not counted. In the law in force and in the draft approved in the first reading, it is said that in cases provided for by law legal aid is provided free of charge in court. So, unfortunately, these words eventually came out, this is a significant deterioration in the rights of many categories of people who come to court and need protection, but don't have any funds to protect. I repeat, this is a valid editorial, and this was approved in the first reading in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u98	Thus it says: “Everyone has the right to legal aid. In cases provided for by law, this assistance shall be provided free of charge.” Counted. See the right column on page 10. Volodymyr Romanovich, accounted for. Page 10 at the bottom. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u99	Yes, there is. It's free. There's this. Article 10, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u100	You got an understanding, no questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u101	It's fine, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u102	Let's move on. Yuri Carmazin 57th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In this amendment, I propose part two of article 11, which reads: “The court proceedings are open except in cases established by procedural law. Participants in the trial and other persons present at the open court may use portable audio, video, and technology. A photo and film session, a video recording, a recording of the use of stationary equipment and a broadcast of a court hearing shall be permitted by decision of the court.” The point is, why is this amendment being made, and why do I insist on its satisfaction? Today, in the 21st century, and today, in order to record not always use a pencil or a pen, they can put on a tape recorder, or a video recorder, if it is portable and does not interfere with anyone’s right to be a used citizen to protect their rights later. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u104	I'm betting on a vote of 57. [[16:59:37]] For-26 Correction not supported. 59th Amendment, Carmazine, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I propose to complete the draft with a new article 11 Prim with this content: “The challenge and the dissatisfaction of the trial. Cases in these courts are dealt with on the basis of competition and dissatisfaction. The competition is to allow persons who participate in the case to submit evidence addressed to the court, to participate in the examination of evidence, as well as in the debates of the parties to the trial, and to carry out other proceedings. Discontent is that it is possible for those who share in the exercise of equal rights and freedom in the provision of evidence, their investigation, and their conviction before the court. The Court is obliged to create conditions for those involved in the case to exercise their rights and duties in court for the purpose of determining objective circumstances, as well as to prove or disprove guilt. This is purely the norm of the principle to be written in the general part of this law. I don't understand why we didn't vote her out. I'm asking you to support her now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u106	The answer to your question, Yuri Anatoliyovich, is in the very title of the article you are proposing. The contestability and incorruptibility of the trial, and this must be taken into account in the legal process. And, Yuri Anatolyevich, I have this request for you, if possible, to motivate you to insist on the amendment rather than just to read the amendment. Because I'm trying to tell you the reasons why the committee rejected an amendment, I'm not reading the first law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u107	I'll bet on a vote of 59. In the process, let's do it, it was a request. I'm betting on a vote of 59. [[17:01:43]] For-22. Correction not supported. Correction to Logwinka 62. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Eugene Kirilchuk. 63rd. 62nd. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin. Counted. 65th. Yuri Prokopchuk. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u108	This is also true of article 14, where, after the words “have the right to appeal on appeal of a cassation.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u109	No, it's the 65th. This paragraph of the third article 12, after the word “courts”, the words “implement the state language in the process of judiciality” shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u110	Of course, I insist. Because the courts have to have jurisdiction only in the national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u111	That's how it's accounted for. In Yuri Karmazin: The judiciary, the business in the courts of Ukraine, is conducted in the national language. It's counted, so there's no reason to vote for yours. 67th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u112	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the point is that you have read the first part of this article correctly. But when you read part three, you'll realize that there's a bomb in there. A bomb for Ukraine, for Ukrainian, and everything else. That's in part three. Therefore, my amendment states that part three of article 12 reads: “Those who take part in the matter and do not speak or do not speak the national language are guaranteed the right to use the translation services.” For Julia Volodymyrny, I'm going to explain in a special way, if I have time, I'm going to be given a justification, I'm going to add a justification. And here I'm telling you, so far we've recorded that we guarantee the right to use our own language, even if it's Ethiopian or the language they speak, it's absurd, I'm against this absurdity and I'm asking you to support my amendment right now. I'm talking to Chechchev's colleague, maybe you speak Ethiopian, I don't. So please let's vote on the normal amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u113	It is not said that any other language will be used in court. The point is that if a person does not understand Ukrainian, he is guaranteed his rights to understand what is going on in the trial. You're proposing a translator. We do not write about the translator but simply write a guarantee because it does not correspond to the concept of the article. The article has the rule of reference to the Procedural Codes, which will provide for the right to use a translator. This is about the translator.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u114	Let's not argue, he'll determine the vote. That's the first one. The other one. Part four says it's deciphering what we're talking about, it's talking about languages that are ratified in the charter. So this is where it all comes in. I'm putting Karmazin's 67th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:05:02]] For-28 Not supported. 69 Amendment Soboles insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! This is just another amendment that I'm paying attention to that directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if this rule is implemented even through procedural norms, although through this law, we need immediate financial justification as to what this rule is going to be worth. If this law, according to the authors, is intended to facilitate justice and speed up justice, this rule provides a basis for those who want to delay the trial to constantly abuse their right to any language. Because I would like us to look at that list of disappearing languages, or languages that require support that apply to the European Charter. I think it's impossible to put it into practice and it will lead to court hearings going on for years and we won't be able to use it. That is why there is a clear norm of the Constitution, which reads: “Ukrainen, Russian and other languages” and needs it directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u116	This article does not conflict with the Constitution. And I want to say that this isn't about delaying the trial, this is just about guarantees, these international guarantees of citizens' rights to use languages in court and to understand what's going on in court. In fact, this is about the execution of us as the state of Ukraine of that international charter that we ratified and I don't understand what's wrong here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u117	I'm putting 68 amendments to the vote, please. [[17:07:06]] For -14 Not supported. Please, the 69th. Oh, we're 69, sorry, we voted. Baburin. 70th. Don't insist. Sphinx. 72nd. Don't insist. Stetsky. 75th. Don't insist. Moses. 76th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u118	Vladimir Moses, “For Ukraine! ” Honorable colleagues and Adam Ivanovich. Article 12 contains two parts, 4 and 5, which envision the use in the judiciary in addition to the national language of regional languages, or in the language of national minorities, that is, as colleague Sobolev put it, directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. And I would like to point out that the requirement to know the national language in the Constitution is recorded in two categories of civil servants: the President of Ukraine and the judge. So if we write that down, Julia Volodymyrna, using regional languages, that means that the judge in the Chernivsky region needs to know the language, say, the Romanian, the Moldovan, the hagauz, the judge needs to know the Hague language, in the Odessa region, and so on. That's absurd. That's absurd. The appeal of the cassation, how will they decide in those languages? This is ridiculous. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, let me tell you this. You speak correctly, but you do not read the fifth part, which says only a few words in other words all the things you suggest. That the use of regional or minority languages in the judiciary is guaranteed by the State and is provided at the expense of public funds. So it's guaranteed that there's going to be an interpreter who's going to do these functions. I put 76 articles on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:09:17]] For the 18th. Not supported. 77? Sweden. I can't see. Jojik, 78? None. Carmazine, yeah, that's where she's accounted for. Bondick, 81st? Don't insist. A yakkopchuk? Don't insist. Yes. Streetwich, 84th? Huh? Dig in, please. 82nd. Please. I didn't see you, there was. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u120	I'm right there. I'm in the office. Thus, Amendment 80 refers to article 14 itself, where after the words “have the right to appeal and cassation of a court decision”, the words “except in cases established by law” are added to the words “and also to the Supreme Court of Ukraine to exclude”. We know that the Supreme Court has the highest court facility that I understand they want to destroy by this law, but nevertheless, we cannot do that. Otherwise, we will have to buy different decisions, as is being done in different courts today. One court takes such a decision, and another court, next door, takes another decision. That's why I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u121	On the contrary, the Supreme Court defends itself. That they have the right to speak to him. I don't understand why you're suggesting we throw it away. But let's put 80 to the vote. Please be sure. [[17:11:02]] For-9 Not supported. It's the 82nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u122	In the first part of article 14, the words “in cases” and “in the order established by procedural law” should be deleted. So this is the same thing as the part of the first article 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u123	Right. I mean, do whatever you want. Right. 82nd vote. [[17:11:41]] For -8 Not supported. 85th Sobolev. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, the amendment makes it absolutely clear that this law is in conformity if it is to be adopted in such a way that it must be in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That is why my amendment and my colleagues are concerned with bringing in paragraphs 8 and 9 of the third part of article 129 of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11.03. 2010 number 8-PP/2010. In case we don't do that, in fact, a new last decision of the Constitutional Court will not be included in the law that is currently being voted on. That's why the request is next. Look at our amendment. It is clearly in line with the Constitutional Court’s decision and therefore the request to vote in that way. Because if the article remains in force, it would directly contradict the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u125	The committee rejected the amendment on these grounds, since the proposed amendment was less similar to that of the Constitution. And the text that is proposed for second reading is not close to the Constitution, and it's a representation of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u126	The explanation is clear, it happens because it really does. I'd like to ask your colleagues to excuse me for teaching you, but when you read your amendment, see how the other one counts so that we don't get into the situation that it is. I know it's hard because there's a lot of text. I'm betting on a vote of 85. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:13:48]] For 20 Not supported. 86th. Carmazine. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u127	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you in order to remind you of part four of article 124 of the Constitution, which states that the people are directly involved in the execution of justice through the national jury and the jury. In this case, the point of my amendment is to bring cases before the courts. As part of the first article 15, the court’s case is dealt with by a single judge, a college of judges, or a college of judges, and a national jury. And in matters defined by this law, justice is done by a jury. I would like to point out that in that version of the committee, it is written with the participation of the national jury and the jury. With the participation and execution of the jury, these are completely different concepts, completely different, and they don't talk about the direct participation of the people in the execution of justice. So I'm going to bring you back to the Constitution, to the text that we put here in 96.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u128	I put 86 amendments to Carmazin, who, as always, is wise, to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:15:22]] For 20 Not supported. Sweden, 88th. Tolstenko, '90s. Don't insist. Carmazine, 91st. What's that? We'll be right back. Let's do it. Please, Karmazin. And then to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u129	It's okay, isn't it? Yuri Carmazin. It was repeatedly emphasized that the procedural norms of the law were rejected. I want to show the authors and those who stand behind this law that the procedural standards here are just procedural. So I propose that part three of article 15 be excluded. And here we're talking about what works, see, the documentation system, which is the task, here the personal composition of the court is defined as, when it's defined in person. These are all procedural norms that we now incorporate into this material law. And when I'm told in one case, when they're comfortable with it being a procedural norm, in this case I'm showing you. So this is a procedural norm? Then let's move it to another code. You don't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u130	Yes, I'm voting for 91 of Karmazin's amendment. The committee's position is in the table. [[17:17:03]] For-13. Not supported. I missed the 87th amendment of Moses. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u131	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Carmazin highlighted the shortcomings of article 15. Again, I know you don't vote and you don't want to. But listen. There's a judge, it's a court of law. There are three judges, that's the composition of the court. There are two judges and three jurors, that's the composition of the court. And there's a jury trial. Do you understand that? Well, that's how you write it down. I suggest this in my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u132	That's what it says. The committee proposes to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u133	I'm putting my colleague Moses' number 87 amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:18:01]] For-22. Not supported. 92 revisions. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u134	Yuri Carmazin. By rejecting the suggestions I made in 91 of my amendment, I ask them instead to replace them with other parts of the third and sixth of the following: “In the appeal procedure, a court shall be collegiately composed of at least three judges.” We clearly write that this is the principle we have, the principle, I repeat. Next: “In the cassation order, a court shall be collegiately composed of at least five judges.” So that they do not be afraid to be dragged, dragged, or released. The following: “In a collegiate review of the case the judges, the national jury, have equal rights to decide the matters referred to in the procedural law before their jurisdiction in matters relating to the case, all court decisions shall be taken by a majority of the votes of the judges, the national jury or the jury.” And then change numbering if this amendment is supported. I'm asking you to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u135	92 Amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:19:23]] For -14 Not supported. Tolstenko, '94. Ninety-three? Please, Spinov. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u136	Please withdraw your amendment and leave the edition of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u137	I see. So a colleague of Sphenov insists on what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u138	To leave the first reading editor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u139	Leave the editor for the first read. So it's kind of like that. Isn't that right, Julia Volodymyr?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u140	You can agree, you should leave the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u141	So then after amendment 93, I'm going to put a motion to the vote -- to leave it in the first reading. Please vote. [[17:20:27]] For 223 Don't worry, calm down, 223. But that still does not mean anything because the chairman has the right to put a motion to the vote: Who is responsible for returning to the vote on this amendment? I'd like to make up my mind. There's more registration tables than there is in the hall. [[17:21:03]] For 245 We're back. I'm putting 93 of Sphen's amendment in the first reading. Please vote. [[17:21:25]] For 242 First reading. Yeah, '94, '95. Don't insist. 97th, Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u142	Yuri Carmazin. I emphasized that the preceding article had failed, in my view, on an automated system, and I am proposing another article to write with a separate article. That's 15 primes while it's counting. “Automated documentary system in the courts. In the courts of general jurisdiction, an automated documentary system functions as an integral part of Ukraine’s single judicial information system. The task of this system is, in particular, to determine the personal composition of the court to deal with a particular case on the basis of the reliability of the distribution of cases during the court’s enquiries, complaints, and appeals. In the distribution of cases, an automated system ensures that each judge’s workload, specialization, and legal requirements are taken into account. The provision of a single system shall be approved by the State Court of Justice at the request of the Council of Judges of Ukraine.” This is what I would like to do to vote on this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u143	And I ask you to vote in such an editorial if you succeed. 97 goes to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:23:02]] For-13. Verni Dubov, 98th, doesn't insist. Carmazine, 99th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u144	Article 16. Article 16 I would like to present in such an editorial. This is Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that I do not like the symbols of judicial authority to be, I propose, “The State Flag of Ukraine and the State Herb of Ukraine, the mantle and the official sign of the judge. The judge executes justice in a robe bearing the judge’s official mark. The description of the mantle and the official sign of the judge and the manner in which they are used are determined by the provision on them, which is confirmed by the gathering of judges of Ukraine. The National Flag of Ukraine is installed in the service premises of the judges. In the courtrooms of the judges there are images of the State Herb of Ukraine.” So I am convinced that this approach to article 16 will ensure respect for the judge, the decision he takes or the judgment he takes. So far, these requirements have not been met.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u145	99th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:24:29]] For the 15th. Not supported. 100, 101st. Don't insist. 102nd Carmazine accounted for. 104th. Sobole, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, this is the third case of a violation of the Constitution, which is in this law. In general, it introduces an interesting norm, which is difficult to even speak — institutionalism. Open the Constitution, the corresponding article, and read article 125. It predicts that such a system is built only by the principles of territoriality and specialization. They put out a new term. You will not find the definition of this term in the law. Someone understands that, someone understands that, so, in cases where this is defined directly in the Constitution, don't copy the Constitution. Take the corresponding article of the Constitution and rewrite it here. Don't add anything because it's a constitutional norm. Because then they can refer to it and demand it. Then there will be a philosophical explanation of what they meant by that term. This will delay the trial again. Therefore, the request is that the corresponding article of the Constitution be transposed directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u147	I'm betting on a vote of 104. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:26:05]] For-13. Not supported. Carmazine, 105th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u148	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. The honourable people's deputies, unfortunately, you didn't listen to Sobolev, because here's article 125 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This refers to territoriality and specialization. Institutionality -- there's no such principle in the Constitution. You're already putting the question into question, what's going on. I suggest that the second paragraph of article 1, article 17, should read that the system of courts of general jurisdiction consists of local courts and appeals courts and higher specialized courts. The committee, on the other hand, offers only local courts and appeals. From the system of courts of general jurisdiction, the higher specialized courts. So you don't want to wear them. I want us, honourable national MPs, to use the Constitution better -- as Sobolev asked you -- to rewrite here -- and not invent anything new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u149	I'll put 105 on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:27:34]] For -8 Not supported. Prokopchuk, 106th. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u150	I insist. Yuri Prokopchuk, “Batychina” Party, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In fact, this amendment is confused with what a colleague of Carmazin had said earlier. And my proposal: part of article 17 is to read: “The system of courts of general jurisdiction consists of: first, local courts, second, appeals courts and higher specialized courts, and third, the Supreme Court of Ukraine.” I think that breaking into four sub-items there again violates the structure itself and violates the Constitution. I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u151	Please give it to Moses, if he insists, let's give it a word, because it's about the same thing. Please give me an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u152	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Adam Ivanovich, it is said that in the right column local courts, appeals courts, higher courts, and the Supreme Court are taken to court. And here I'm talking about an appeal general and specialized court. They have not gone to any justice system. Look.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u153	All of these amendments are rejected because the census of the courts of general jurisdiction is done without applying any principle of the construction of the system of courts of general jurisdiction. And I want to emphasize once again that the drafting of this law is consistent with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u154	Of course, the authors correctly wrote down, but those who make amendments are right in their own eyes because they want a different model. That's why I'm putting 106th and 107th amendments, because they're complementary and interconnected to each other, to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:29:32]] Z-11. Not supported. 109th, Prokopchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, once again, in their favorite ways, they are trying in this bill to bring the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the only highest court in Ukraine as the sole body for the protection of the rights of our citizens. It adds that the higher courts of specialized courts are appropriate higher specialized courts. And again, it's going to be methodical, so to speak, some department in the Supreme Court, everything else will be decided by the Supreme Administrative Court, the Economic Court, and so on and so forth. So it's completely broken down into further branches of power by the judicial branch of power. That's why I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u156	I'll put 109 to the vote, please. [[17:30:40]] For-9 Not supported. 113, Moses, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u157	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Adam Ivanovich, it is about ensuring the unity of the judicial system. And among the signs of unity is the right column “the provision by the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the same application by the courts of the law-making institution” while today and in the Communist system, Adam Ivanovich, the court ensured the same application of the law by all courts without exception. This violates the Constitution, and I'm paying attention to it to the electorate, not the MPs, because they give the same explanation, which is consistent with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u158	I would like to draw the voter's attention to the fact that the granting of powers to the Supreme Court of Ukraine to ensure the same application of procedural law in practice by the courts of the case has created the possibility of review of court decisions in double cassation. That's what we're getting out of right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u159	Thank you. I put to the vote 113 of the amendment of Moses and Vladimir Romanovich, for a high rating of the Soviet system of judiciality, I also support your proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:32:08]] For the 18th. We were no longer supported. 114th Sobolev, please. Shustice microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u160	. the amendment, since the Supreme Court of Ukraine, as the highest judicial authority in the State, is to uphold the provision of uniform judicial practice primarily in the courts of general jurisdiction and not only in the courts of the court of cassation. The editorial proposed by the committee narrows down the substantive constitutional powers of the Supreme Court. By the way, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is also highlighted by scientists who, today in the Voice of Ukraine, published an open letter to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the President of Ukraine. And so I think that despite the author's assurance, many of the articles of this law that we are adopting today are contrary to the Constitution, the basic law of our state. And this project should be sent to the Committee of Legal Policy to draw an expert conclusion, to the Committee's conclusion, in accordance with the Constitution of many of the bill's provisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u161	I'm putting 114 amendments to the vote. [[17:33:39]] For-12. Not supported. 118th. Carmazine. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u162	117th, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u163	That's 117.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u164	No, it's not. Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u165	You don't agree, let's go 117.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u166	Thank you. 117th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'm drawing your attention, you enjoyed what Mr. Moses said. So listen, please, to what he said and what it says here. The role of the Supreme Court is now recorded in this part in the fourth: “the provision by the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the same application by the courts, the court of the court of cassation of material law.” That is, the Supreme Court no longer enforces the rule of law, the same application of the entire system of courts, but only a cassation facility and only procedural norms, material norms. The trial's down, the other courts are down. That is why I propose an amendment, which states that “the Supreme Court should ensure the same application of legislation by the courts of general jurisdiction”, which is totally in line with the spirit and the letter of the Constitution, to one another.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u167	117's on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:35:09]] For the 15th. Not supported. You're going to talk 118 times. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u168	Article 118 or Amendment 118 provides for the completion of the project by a new article of the 17th century. a content that would just implement the constitutional capacity -- territoriality and specialization, and the concept of them. “The system of courts is built on the principles of territoriality and specialization, and must ensure that justice is available to everyone. The courts are formed by taking into account the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. The specialization provides for the creation of specialized courts as separate subsystems of judicial bodies, for the consideration of defined procedural law categories of cases or for the purpose of specializing judges in individual categories of cases before courts. The specialization shall be carried out on a subjective, subjective and other basis.” I would like to vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u169	It's the 118th. I'd like to make up my mind. The right position of the committee is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u170	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u171	No, I can't criticize the first deputy head of the committee that Carmazin is. [[17:36:25]] For the 18th. So, 122nd Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u172	Yuri Carmazin. Article 122 refers to the amendment of article 18, in particular part one and part two. I suggest that I put it in this way and give it completeness. “In the system of courts of general jurisdiction, there are general and specialized courts of separate jurisdictions. Military courts belong to the general courts and exercise justice in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations formed according to law. Special courts – they are both commercial and administrative; courts of different jurisdictions may provide specialized judges with specific categories of cases of the category. In particular, Adam Ivanovich, there is now an attempt to destroy the system of military courts. It takes 80 million dollars to dispose of these courts. And for them to work only 29 million dollars. That's why I'm asking you to support the Soviet system. They worked in America and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u173	It's 122nd on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:37:56]] For the 18th. It's grown a little bit. Yeah, 124th. Pencil, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u174	Yuri Prokopchuk. This is also true of the same part, and here I propose article 18 in this edition to read: “Specialization of the courts of general jurisdiction”. First. The system of courts of general jurisdiction forms the general and specialized courts of individual courts. Military courts belong to the general courts and exercise justice in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations formed according to law. The other one. Special courts are commercial and administrative courts. Third. In the courts of different jurisdictions, specialization of the courts may be introduced in relation to the specific categories of cases of the jurisdiction in question, that is, it is specifically explained here as it may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u175	It's about the same thing that Carmazin said.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u176	Yeah, close, it's close.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u177	124 is put to the vote. [[17:39:04]] For-9 Not supported. For information, dear colleagues: 124 amendments have been considered, 1,600 remaining. 125th. Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u178	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Article 125 of the Constitution provides for specialized courts as an exception to the State. Instead, article 18 of this bill establishes a thorough specialization in the courts and courts of general jurisdiction and does not remain. And how effective was Julia Volodymyrna's work, whether the higher courts are working, I'm going to call you the Supreme Court's indicators, where 80 percent of the court's rulings in question have been annulled by the Chamber of Commerce. So you suggest to us in the Supreme Court that there be a dot and there must be lawlessness because there is no law. The law is written in such a way that there is always an opportunity to correct a judicial error. You're putting an obstacle on citizens, but that's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u179	Well, first of all, your paper doesn't exactly match the Constitution, our editorial is more consistent with the Constitution, it's more successful. And secondly, this bill and called for the preservation of the independence of the judiciary, the reduction of corruption in the judiciary, and the higher courts will decide the issue definitively, there will be no second case in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u180	Yeah, you just want to cut down, not completely beat it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u181	We want to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u182	155th, please vote. [[17:41:06]] For-16 Not supported. Dear colleagues, I'd like to advise you, let's make this choice: offer Julia Volodymyrna, here are the seats, let her take her card, sit with the papers on the front row. And. if there's a comment from the committee, it'll only speak first place. Have a seat, Julia Volodymyrna, because we understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u184	127th Carmazin? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u185	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is amendment 127, and I propose that the title of article 19 be changed to read: “The order of the establishment and liquidation of the courts of general jurisdiction”. So far it's called the order of creation. And now, honourable national deputies and honourable Julia Volodymyrna, honourable Adam Ivanovich, I would like to emphasize that the rights of the President are provided for in the Constitution, that there is no liquidation of the courts. It's a waste of authority written to the President. That's why I think we're going beyond the Constitution here. Please vote in favour of the title of the article and remove the word “received by the President” from this article because they are formed, not eliminated by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u186	As always, the argument is. I'm betting on the 127th vote. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. [[17:42:57]] For 236 Karmazin's correction is supported. Bolura. They voted on what was written. 128th. Bolura. Don't insist. Yeah, 129th. Please, Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u187	Thank you. But I understand we're not going to have a single amendment, but I have a question for Julia Vladimirovne. Why did the committee reject my amendment? Is it because a new court is being established in Ukraine, or is it being eliminated, an important issue? It's important. Then why is the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine removed from his decision? I don't think that's right. But why is he leper or what? I don't understand. He's doing it mostly. Answer me. Why was my amendment rejected by the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u188	Yes, please, microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u189	There's nothing wrong with the head of the Supreme Court. There are no such problems. But the law proposes that the courts be established without the participation of the Supreme Court. I'll tell you why. Because there are enough organs that give and agree, and adding the head of the Supreme Court makes no sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u190	Yes, Amendment 129 is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[5:44:52]] For-34 The violation of the Constitution. 131st. Sobolen. Who's going to be the shustik? Sobolen. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u191	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to what our colleague Karmazin said when he quoted an appropriate article of the Constitution regarding the powers of the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine does not have the right to eliminate the courts. Moreover, the powers of the President of Ukraine are exhausted and defined exclusively in the Constitution of Ukraine, other laws cannot impose this. That's why I'm surprised that there was such a friendly amendment that actually goes into violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. Secondly, I'd like to support my colleague Marmazov. There may be any relationship between the High Council, the Supreme Council, the President, the Supreme Court, but there are powers that I think are binding, or we will get a system that will be balanced. That is why it is impossible to exclude the Chief of the Supreme Court from the formation of the courts. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u192	I'm betting on a vote of 131. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:46:24]] For-19 Not supported. Digger, 113th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u193	Yuri Prokopchuk. So in part three of article 19, I propose instead of “the need to improve accessibility. ” What is “the need to improve accessibility”? There is either a need, or there is no need. So I'm asking in article 19, part three, to put it this way: the basis for creating or eliminating a court is changing the system of courts defined by this law, the need to ensure the availability of justice, or the change of the administrative system. Stylistically, it'll be more literate and more accurate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u194	133 goes to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:47:24]] For the 10th. Not supported. 139th. Sobole, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u195	Dear colleagues, I don't understand why we're going back to breaking the Constitution, in this case we're restricting the President's authority. Because the proper powers of the President, which apply to the number of judges, are directly defined in the Constitution. We're handing over these powers to the State Judicial Administration. With all due respect to the State Judicial Administration, we can't violate the Constitution. That's why my proposal is well-formed. The number of judges in the court is determined and can be changed by the President of Ukraine by the submission of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, taking into account the scope of the court's work and within the limits of the expenditure approved in the Ukrainian State Budget for the maintenance of judges. For who, but not the Council of Judges, is clearly able to determine the workload that is upon a single judge, to control it and to give the opportunity in a given way to distribute equally the powers that are at present with regard to the conduct of matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u196	Thank you. Please, the Novak microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u197	I would like to point out that the State Judicial Administration, under this law, and this is what the Venice Commission required of us, is no longer an executive body. It is no longer subject to the executive authority. It is an organ of judicial authority. And so these powers are given to the State Judicial Administration, which is more logical and understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u198	The 139th vote is on the vote. Although here, with regard to the President and the Constitution, we should look at it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:49:21]] For the 18th. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you have been accused by colleague Sobolev that you are against the Constitution. And you say you need to be supported. Yes, Sweden. It's a 142-year-old digger. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u199	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It is this editorial that I have proposed that, in my opinion, resolves the issue between the Supreme Court and the President. Therefore, I ask that article 19 be made available in such an editorial. “The procedure for the formation and liquidation of the courts. The courts of general jurisdiction, in accordance with the requirements of this law, form and eliminate the President of Ukraine for the submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine.” The other one. “The number of judges, deputy judges, is determined by the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And the third. Local courts are formed by the President of Ukraine in the order established by this law, defining the territory to which the territorial jurisdiction of the court extends. And the basis for the establishment or liquidation of the court is the replacement of the administrative and territorial system, the redeployment of troops or the organization of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the change in the system of courts defined by this law, as well as other grounds provided for by law. In the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u200	I'm putting 42 to the vote on the amendment. [[17:50:58]] For-13. Not supported. 143th, Moses. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u201	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine! ” I want to share the concern of my colleague Marmazov of the Communist faction about what is unfounded and even contrary to the Constitution of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, his head is removed from the formation of specialized courts. This is contrary to article 125, which states that the Supreme Court is the highest judicial body. And before the previous amendment, I would like to say to Julia Volodymyrni that the Supreme Court does not intend to have re-cassation and does not want to have it, but has the right to review it under exceptional and exceptional circumstances. You're in court, I see from your biography, you weren't, maybe on invitation there as a lawyer. And look, there are 30 triads of court in the Supreme Economic Court, there's an administration there 15 created by a higher civilian and a higher criminal would be 100 triplets. And here's every three people understand the law in their own way. And in the last instance, who has to stop and reason with them? There's no installation, and you're afraid, you see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u202	Thank you. You know, I thought threes were gone, it turns out. Novikova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u203	I'm not going to discuss the role of the Supreme Court, we've talked about this. I want to tell you why your amendment to this question has been rejected. You suggest that the President determine the number of judges in court, and that's what happened. But I would like to point out that the President is refusing his right to do so, as it was before, because this vague mandate, not defined by the Constitution, has no right in the President's Constitution to determine the number of judges in a court of law, and the President refuses. And it's in the law. So watch and read the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u204	There is 143 amendments to the vote. [[5:53:05]] Z-11. Not supported. 144th, Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u205	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the hands of the President. I remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u206	You can't hold the President's authority in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u207	I can hold the President's office in the Constitution. In the Constitution, in article 106, paragraph 23: “instructs the courts in the prescribed order”. It's making everything up. You and I have to figure out what order we're in. I propose in article 1.5, part 1.5, in article 19, that we read: “The courts of general jurisdiction, according to the requirements of this law, constitute the President of Ukraine for the submission of the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The number of judges and deputy heads is determined by the President for the submission of the plenary of the Supreme Court, taking into account the workload of the court and the expenditure approved in the State budget. Local courts are formed by the President. The basis for the formation or liquidation is the change in the administrative system, the redeployment of troops or the reorganization of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the change defined by this law, the systems and other grounds provided for by law.” And absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u208	The 144th vote is on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:54:35]] For the 15th. Not supported. 147th, Vlasenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u209	Sergey Vlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! For a long time, there has been a discussion about the appointment of administrative posts and the overall role of judges in administrative positions, the heads of courts and their deputies. So something everybody's saying is that the role of these people is tiny, they don't affect anything, but they're offered to be assigned for 5 years and then again for 5 years. That is, for 10 years, a person seems to be in no position to answer there, as if without authority, while he manages the appropriate court there, has administrative authority and so on. So I proposed an amendment, which is that the heads of judges be appointed to do so. As is the case in normal democratic countries, for one year without the right to be re-elected. At least for the next three years. That's why I'd like to support you. And by the way, there was a hard enough committee discussion on this amendment, and I know that the reporter also has a position that is close to my point, so I would like to support this amendment. That's how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u210	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u211	So we're going to put into practice a very long-declared levelling of the role of the head of the court in general and of the trial, and of the functioning of the court as such, i.e. a judge in an administrative capacity -- it should be a load, not an extra bonus for the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u212	Right. It's not good for you. It's a 147th vote. [[17:56:28]] For-12. Not supported. There's no insistence. It's the same thing. Bev doesn't insist. Moses, please, 153.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u213	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear voters! I'm calling you because the MPs aren't responding to any comments. The Supreme Council of Justice is not given the right to appoint a governing body in the courts — the heads of the courts and their deputies. I would like to remind you that Article 131 of the Constitution does not confer such a right on the Superior Council of Justice. When the Constitution was approved in 1996, I, as Judge of the Supreme Court, was in a working group and I will tell you that the creation of the High Council of Justice was envisaged as the body that was supposed to conduct disciplinary action against judges and prosecutors. That's what his function was all about. To this day, we grant them the right to make or appoint a governing body of courts, and from there, instead of the Supreme Court, the influence will be transferred to the High Council of Justice. It's dangerous, and I want voters to know that, not MPs, because unfortunately, they don't react.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u214	153 years after such criticism, the vote is on the table. Please. [[17:57:53]] For-16 Not supported. 157th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u215	Yuri Carmazin. The 157th amendment refers exactly to the order of election of a judge to an administrative office. Moses ’ colleague, who worked for the Supreme Court of Ukraine, was absolutely right, saying that there was no such authority in the Supreme Council of Justice. So I suggest you write it all down in a civilized way. Write down: “Part of the first article 20, which reads as follows: ‘Plenum of the Supreme Court of Ukraine appoints a judge to an administrative office in a court other than the administration of the Supreme Court, from the number of judges of the relevant court for 5 years following the referral of the Council of Judges of Ukraine to the relevant Council of Judges in an order established by the Council of Judges of Ukraine and releases it in a timely manner.’ There was another option that I also proposed at the committee meeting: to elect the judges' leaders as the panel of the court itself on an alternative basis by secret ballot.” But they also rejected it. We're facing a problem. I'm not against the High Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do not criticize the Higher Council of Justice or any other body, for the Constitution does not determine who should do so. It is only said that the body defined by law should do so. And if we finally define this organ, which is more likely to be -- the Higher Council of Justice -- according to this law, it's better than what's going on for two or three years now. No one has the right to appoint, but they do. I'll bet you 157. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:59:54]] For the 17th. Not supported. 156th. There's a large group of authors. Their delegation is authorized by Booth. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u217	Honorable colleagues, distinguished audiences, respected TV sets, and radio audiences! Article 20, paragraph 1, of the Law, which is proposed today, states that the head of the local court, his deputy, the head of the Court of Appeal, his deputy, the head of the High Court of Justice, his deputies are appointed for a term of five years from the number of judges of the Court and are dismissed from office by the High Council of Justice for the appointment of the appropriate council of judges. At the same time, questions arise as to the possible initiator of the appointment or release of the persons mentioned. In our view, therefore, the constitutional principle of the independence of the judiciary requires that the bill be supplemented by an article of the following substance. “The initiation of the appointment and release of the persons listed in paragraph 1 of Article 20 shall be decided at the general meetings of the Judges of the relevant court on an alternative basis by secret ballot.” Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u218	As me, that would be the fairest thing. I'd like to make a determination for 156. [[18:01:33]] For-35 They didn't. Babourin, 159th, does not insist. Carmazine, 161st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u219	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the question of how are candidates for administrative positions being put forward. That's why I agree that people have an alternative basis to get high. And I suggest you write down, to complete article 20 with a new third part of that content. “The suspension of candidates for administrative posts in courts shall take place solely on an alternative basis.” And, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, if you remember, the reconstruction was once started with what, by the way, the collapse of all industry, the election of leaders and the alternative basis. So I'm proposing leadership choices, since you're already rejecting it, leave at least an alternative base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u220	Right. It won't work. 161 votes. [[18:03:00]] For 20 162nd, please, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u221	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Honorable Voters and Honorable Fellows! This is about the reasons for the dismissal from the judge’s post, and the right column gives two reasons for his dismissal from the judge’s office, or the end of his term in office. I would like to add: “and the achievements of the 65-year-old judge.” Now, we have a paradoxical situation with Demchenko today, and we haven't released him from the judge, but he's not in court, and yet, for almost two years, he's the head of the Supreme Economic Court. You have to consider this situation, or the law has to determine it because it's a paradox.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u222	162, put to the vote. [[18:04:05]] For the 17th. Not supported. 164, Carmazin, overruled. Oh, no? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u223	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I propose that part five of article 20 be edited as follows: “The dismissal of a judge from an administrative office in a court of law shall be carried out by the Council of Judges of Ukraine, in compliance with the order of appointment for that office, provided for by this law.” The judge may be dismissed from office as the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, except for the administration of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, also for the initiatives of the High Council of Justice in the event of a violation by the judges of the requirements of the law.” I would like to point out that the Council of Europe has in its own time drawn attention to the need to ensure that the court is updated without undue delay after the deadline for its judges is reached. Therefore, authorizations should cease from the time of the end of the mandate. And a permanent termination of powers should be carried out according to a defined list of reasons. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u224	The 164th vote is on the vote. [[18:05:27]] For-21 Moses supports you without breaking the Constitution as opposed to you. 165th. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u225	You want me to have a replica, no. Yuri Carmazin. The 165th amendment deals with the addition of article 20 of the new part to seven such terms: “The administrative powers of the judge assigned to the administrative office of the court are automatically terminated without the decision of the body that appointed him. If the term ends in the corresponding administrative position the day after the end of this period. In the event of the termination of the judge’s powers from the day following the termination of the terms of office.” Honorable national MPs, colleague Moses rightly cited the case of Sergey Demchenk, the head of the Supreme Court of Agriculture, who was glorified by the court’s handing over Mizgir. Migirja thus moved to the power of Yanukovich, the property of Yanukovitch. Maur's done his job, so let him go, you've been harassing the Constitution for 2.5 years. Excuse me, I'm asking you to move out immediately. Vote now, at least, to show that you're a legal coalition, not some other coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u226	Thank you. But be merciful, carry you know when. The 165th vote is on the vote. [[18:07:01]] For-19 166th. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u227	Yuri Carmazin. The 166th Amendment refers to the addition of article 20 to part eight of this content: “The suspension of the administrative powers of the judge on the basis of paragraph 1 of part seven of this article does not stop his authorization of the judge. The suspension of the judge’s authority and the end of the term for which the judge is appointed to an administrative office in the court suspends him from exercising an administrative office. This is particularly the case that applies, and this is the case with today's nominee, which I would like to take this opportunity to welcome -- Alexander Pasenyuk -- the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. So we can welcome him to a normal vote. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u228	Aren't we voting? We don't vote. That won't be the way of greetings. 166, please. [[18:08:23]] For the 17th. Not supported. The new one is partially accounted for. She doesn't insist. 168 Sobolev and others, please. Who? Sobolic microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u229	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to a further violation of the Constitution, which is in this very draft article. That is, since there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that expressly determines that the right of judges to administrative office in the courts of general jurisdiction to the Supreme Council of Justice does not extend. This is clearly stated in the decision of the Constitutional Court. We're changing the constitutional norm again. Secondly, Adam Ivanovich, you remember that there was a law at the time that allowed judges to be appointed to the administrative office of the President of Ukraine, and that law was. But you know that since the full list of Presidential powers, by the way, as well as the Supreme Council of Justice, as defined in the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has determined that these bodies are not the same as officials who have the right to be appointed. That is why I would like to support those colleagues who make a proposal for judicial self-government when the judges determine the order of appointment for the administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u230	That's what I think. 168 goes to the vote. [[18:10:00]] For the 18th. Carmazine. 169th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u231	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the title of article 21 be changed to “See and the composition of local courts” to read: “See and the composition of local general and local specialized courts”. Because it's just this chapter 2 talking about local generals and local specialists, so a more complete name would be what I suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u232	It's the 169th vote. [[18:11:02]] For the 18th. 170th. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u233	Yuri Carmazin. 170 amendments are intended to amend and rephrase sections 1, 2, 3 of article 21 in a different way, and I propose that it read: “The local general courts are the local courts, as well as the garrison military courts.” I emphasize: “The local specialized courts are the local courts of agriculture, the local district courts of agriculture, the local district administrative courts. Local courts form and operate within the areas of cities, districts, suburbs, and districts, several districts, and parts of them. Local households form and operate within the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol.” This is a very important amendment and a very important article, honourable national deputies. I'm stressing that we should leave the garrison military courts because the issue is being considered by the military secret, the military service's specifics, it's about 1.5 million people who wear or wear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u234	There are 170 amendments to the vote. As head and first deputy, they work together in sync. [[18:12:30.]] For-24 Not supported. 172nd, 173rd, 174th, 175th, please, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u235	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party. It is in my editorial that article 21 proposes to be presented in a completely stylized, completely orderly and absolutely manner, as legal practice requires. I don't understand why it's rejected. She would have solved those questions. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u236	We're voting 175. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:13:19]] For -14 Not supported. The 176th Carmagina? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u237	I insist, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I insist on all my amendments. So, after the head of the committee, Kiwalov. I am completing article 21 in part five, six, seven, eight, nine of these terms: “The local district courts form and operate within several areas defined by the President of Ukraine. Local District Administrative Courts form and operate within several areas defined by the President of Ukraine. The garrison military courts are forming and operating within the garrison areas defined by the President of Ukraine.” I emphasize that the President is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. The local and local specialized courts include the head, deputy, or deputy heads and judges. In a local court where the number of judges exceeds 12, more than one deputy judge may be appointed. The local court consists of judges, heads, and judges. The number of judges above 15 may be more than one substitute for the head of the court if they are in a local court. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u238	The 176th amendment shall be voted on. For the 15th. Not supported. 177th?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u239	Yuri Carmazin. I'm being influenced right now by the leadership of the committee of Kiwalov. Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is Yuri Karmazin. We didn't make an agreed position, so maybe the law will collapse. I propose that the title of article 22 be changed where the authority of the local court is written. Authorizing local general and local specialized courts Because in this structure, which is now, there are local general courts, and there are local specialized courts. So it must be both beautiful and a name. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u240	For a beautiful name, 177 goes to the vote. [[18:15:51]] For the 15th. It's not a beautiful name. 178th. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u241	Yuri Carmazin, we already have the committee's board of directors here. I'm sorry, Bondik Valerius has joined. He also supports. I'll call you. But the Party of Regions won't listen to him, and his amendments are failing. I offer parts from the first to the fifth of article 22 to be presented in such an editorial. The local court is the court of first instance in civil, administrative, criminal and administrative cases. A local farm, the local district court of first instance, for the purpose of dealing with household matters. Local District Court of First Instance for Administrative Affairs. The garrison military court is the court of first instance in the case of the defendants of the relevant courts according to procedural law. The local general courts, within the limits of their powers provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code, exercise judicial control over the individual procedural activities of the judicial investigation and investigation bodies, as well as allow for the entry into residence or other possession of the person conducting the examination, search. This is especially important in view of the fact that such exemptions are now taking place in the Kiev City Council. So, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u242	178 goes to the vote. [[18:17:21]] Z-11. Not supported. 182nd. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u243	Dear colleagues, this is another amendment that does not actually implement the Constitution, the Basic Law of Ukraine. While the previous amendments have expanded the powers of bodies that do not have such powers under the Constitution, I am now surprised by the position of the coalition and those who support the President of Ukraine. Because no matter who the President of Ukraine is, he can't take his authority. That's why I point out that in my amendment, the amendment of colleagues is a clear rule, that since the President forms courts, the respective territorial jurisdiction of the local courts is determined by the President of Ukraine when they are formed. It's logically absolutely. And I don't understand why Mr. Kiwalov's chairman, the reporter and everyone else rejected this amendment. I understand you want to take away the President's authority, but then change the Constitution, not do it that way. So the request to support my amendment and our colleagues to remove this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u244	Puts to the vote the 182nd amendment. [[18:18:54]] For the 15th. Not supported. 183 is very small. Maybe Carmazin won't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u245	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, there are no small or small ones. This is a law under which fate and country will be determined, and perhaps you, Adam Ivanovich, go ahead. And each one of us. To complement the proposed article 22 with a new part of six of the content: “Local courts conduct and analyse judicial statistics.” I want everyone to understand what this is about. We need to analyze the situation in the subordinate territory, and we need to analyze the application of the laws that exist to deal with matters so that there are not many complaints and so on. Therefore, the duty to conduct and analyse and to maintain judicial statistics is suggested. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u246	Amendment 183 shall be put to the vote. [[18:20:07]] For -14 Not supported. The digger, 184th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u247	Dear colleagues! Article 22, it's about her again. Well, actually, it was wired by Yuri Anatolyovich. Once again, with minor differences, it is almost entirely regulating the authority of the local court. She's signing up for this assignment. What we need to do. That's why I'm putting it to a vote. And of course, any attempt now to simply usurp power in the High Council of Justice and in others, as it were, by the super-constitutional authorities, tells us that just no amendment that we're not making, it will not be accepted. But we will insist on making our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u248	And you'll do the right thing. Create an image of the Supreme Council of Justice. The more you remember it. The 184th vote is on the vote. [[18:21:16]] Z-11. Not supported. Carmazine, 185th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u249	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I propose that the first part of article 23 be presented in such an editorial. The role of opposition, Adam Ivanovich, is such that we offer an alternative project. And you see it. The judge of the local court shall exercise justice in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law of procedure, procedural action and organizational action to ensure that the case is brought before him, control, in accordance with the law, of the timely application of the decisions made under his headship, of the other powers provided for. The judge of the local court has an assistant. An assistant judge may be a full - time citizen of Ukraine who speaks the national language, is a student of a higher law school, or has a legal education, which is spoken in the national language. He cannot be a helper to a judge who has a trial, is limited in efficiency, or is declared ineffective by a court’s decision. This is an absolute rule that is applied, applied to both the police and the Security Service and the military. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u250	Puts the vote to the vote. 185th, vote. [[18:22:54]] For -14 Not supported. 186th, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u251	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am primarily addressing you. This is about authorizing the head of the local court, and then they'll be similar for the heads of appeals, for the heads of appeals specialized, and for the higher courts, that the head of the district court doesn't accept his own apparatus and encourage, and imposes disciplinary charges, and he has to go with these questions to the head of the district administration of the state court. I think it's a bureaucracy of this process. And do you need to go from far away, say, Mankowka to the Cherka district, where two judges and two secretaries go to Cherkas to appoint a secretary of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u252	186 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[18:24:04]] For-13. Not supported. Dear colleagues, it's incredible, but the fact is, Kiwalov's 190th amendment is out of the question. Does he insist? Don't insist. 193, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u253	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, this is what we're talking about. If the head of the court is absent, who is to replace him? In the ages, it was either the first intercessor, or one of the deputies. And now it has been reported that in the absence of a head, his duties are carried out according to his distribution of responsibilities for the organization of the court’s activities. Hell knows who the hell it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u254	Yeah, your opinion's right, damn it. 193 votes. I'll vote. You see, I voted. [[18:25:13]] For the 17th. Yes, Carmazine, 196.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u255	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I propose article 24 to put it a little differently, which is the authority of the head of the local court. “The head of the local court shall carry out the organizational direction of the court, determine the extent of the duties of the deputy, on the basis of the act of appointment or the decision to terminate the mandate without delay shall issue an appropriate order, receive work and relieve the staff of the court apparatus, assign them the rank of civil servant”—don’t forget that the employees are the civil servants—in the order established by law shall apply incentives, impose disciplinary fees, take measures to ensure the formation of the composition of the national jury, organize the conduct of judicial statistics. The head of the local court on matters belonging to his administrative authority issues orders and orders. The President of the Court shall be appointed to office and shall be released in accordance with article 20 and shall not be appointed to office more than twice.” It's so that there's no "freak" in any area, because now it is, and it's been in position for 20 years in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u256	And you've been in Parliament for 20 years. The 196th vote is on the vote. [[6:26:45.]] For the 15th. I'll be right there. 197th, Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u257	No, I'm a replete first, Adam Ivanovich. This is Yuri Carmazin. I've told your home that since I was 94, I've been elected by the district to Parliament, and, thank God, here I stand worthy of the interests of the citizens. But if you can count it, it's not 20 years old, Adam Ivanovich. I understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u258	You'll get to the 20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u259	Not arithmetic. So please don't, Adam Ivanovich, because I'm going to ask for extra time. I ask the deputy head of the local court to take into account in this article who he is, an official. He participates in the organization of the activities of the court, the deputy is appointed and released in accordance with the order established by the law by which we have foreseen. And the deputy can be assigned to the office no more than twice. Adam Ivanovich, consider that this is an assignment for an administrative office, not how you are chosen all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u260	Thank you. An amendment shall be put to the vote of 197. [[18:28:08]] For the 18th. 199th, Moses microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u261	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Once again, it's about specializing in the judicial system, so I want to explain to the drafters that criminal cases and civil cases are not specialized jurisdiction, and it is in these jurisdictions that specialized courts can be created. For example, in civil matters and. labour disputes of property rights and so forth. Unfortunately, you are righteous with a sinner and you call the Supreme Court even without specialization, and because of civil and criminal matters, which is absolutely the opposite of specialization.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u262	The 199th amendment shall be voted on. Let's get Karmazin to investigate. [[18:29:10]] For-16 Not supported. 202nd Amendment, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u263	Dear colleagues, this is an amendment that is in fact somehow related to the following article, the 27th, because in this bill and in the council of active laws that are already in place, it actually introduces a norm that is today, including one that works. Courts of appeal not only act as courts of appeal but also treat cases as courts of the first instance. In case there's any record left that is now, he's actually restricting the power of the Courts of Appeal to treat these cases as the courts of the first instance. That is why I would ask that the amendment that I have made be taken into account, where it is clearly stated that these courts are dealing with civil, criminal and administrative offences in cases and procedures provided for by procedural law. This gives reason then, since this is the basic law that defines the principles of judiciality, it is clear that such a procedure is to be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u264	202th vote. [[18:30:39]] For the 17th. Not supported. 211th, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u265	211th. Thank you. Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, here the drafters of the bill have come to their senses and write that specialized courts may be created as part of the farm’s appeal and administrative appeal. So, Julia Volodymyrna, that's right. Just as in a college of civil affairs and in a college of criminal cases, specialized courts may be created. But in themselves they are not specialized. This is where you spelled it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u266	211 is voting. [[18:31:39]] For-13. Not supported. 212th, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u267	Adam Ivanovich, this is about what I said after the 211 correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u268	Well, there's no need to vote. 215th, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u269	Please consider this amendment and put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u270	Puts the vote to the vote. [[18:32:17]] For-12. 216th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u271	Yuri Carmazin, 216th Amendment. It foresees the introduction of a new edition of article 26, “Sees and compositions of Courts of Appeal”. The courts of appeal must be the courts of appeal, the military courts of appeal of the regions and the Court of Appeal of the Navy. Courts of appeal are formed and operated within the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. In case of necessity, instead of an appeal court, the area. Areas may be established by appeal courts of territorial jurisdiction, which extend to several areas of the area. The appeals courts, the military appeals courts of the regions, and the Court of Appeal of the Navy are formed by the President of Ukraine. The appeal court consists of the head, the first deputy, and the deputy heads, the first. The heads of the courts, the judges who have been elected to the post of judge, are not less than 8 years of age. What I'm saying is that in this project, the first substitute heads are completely destroyed. And that is, those who are today’s first intercessors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u272	It's the 216th vote. [[18:33:47]] For-13. Not supported. 224th partially accounted for in Carmagina. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Thus 224 amendments have been made. There's only one and a half thousand amendments left. 226th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u273	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the amendment of article 28 226 be made available in an editorial to allow the judge of the Court of Appeal to be authorized. He executes justice in the order established by the procedural law, procedural action, organizational action to ensure that the case is brought before him, monitoring in accordance with the law for timely recourse to the execution of decisions ordered by him in court. I stress to the coalition that over a million decisions of the courts of Ukraine, issued by the name of Ukraine, are not being implemented. And people are suddenly called to account for failing to implement the Stockholm Institute of Commerce decision, and what are you doing? You're making a decision. Courts. This is where it has to be written right now that it controls the appeal of the judge of the Court of Appeal has an assistant, and this assistant also has no dual citizenship, he has a national language and he has a higher education, he can't be a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u274	226 amendments shall be voted upon. [[18:35:27]] For the 10th. Not supported. 227 mics, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u275	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'd like to go to 211 amendments, it's voted in principle, but if there's a courtroom, it's not a room secretary, because we're associated with a technical worker. And from established practice, it should be the head of the Chamber, so you might consider it editorially. As far as 227 amendments are concerned, I was speaking about this when an amendment was made for the authority of the head of the local court. And the suggestion is that he himself hires the head of the court and the head of the apparatus and the deputy, and that he himself encourage the workers, and that he himself may impose disciplinary charges rather than submit to the local administration of the state judicial administration. It is, corruption can be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u276	227, vote. [[18:36:40]] For-12. Not supported. 229, Kiwalova, rejected, why did the committee not support it? Don't insist. Moses, 231.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u277	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, those who don't vote. When the absent head of the local court wrote that his responsibilities were not known to anyone. And here, when it comes to an appeal court, one of the deputies wrote, and if there are no substitutes, the one who has more experience in judicial work, why didn't you agree to do the same with the court in the first instance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u278	The 231st vote is on the vote. [[18:37:41]] For-13. Not supported. 234th. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u279	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 234. It is suggested that article 29. It provides for the authority of the head of the Court of Appeal to carry out the organizational direction of the court, to assign duties among the deputies, on the basis of an act to elect a judge or to terminate the authorization to issue the order, to set up the courts and to approve their personal composition, to arrange for the introduction and analysis of judicial statistics, to study and to generalize judicial practice. He has the right to demand cases from the appropriate court, judicial decisions that have gained legal power. He hires and frees the officers of the court apparatus, which my colleague Moses spoke about, assigns them the rank of civil servant, because it is not provided for by law, who assigns the rank of civil servant today, applies encouragement and imposes discipline upon them. Organizes higher qualifications, offers proposals for funding, represents the court in relations with other authorities, issues orders and orders. He has the first intercessor and vice presidents of the court, the heads of the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u280	234's on the vote. [[18:39:09]] For-13. Not supported. 236th. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u281	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 236. This applies to the credentials of the deputy heads of the Court of Appeal. This is the first deputy head of the Court of Appeal according to the distribution of responsibilities, the organizational management of the work in the court’s structural divisions, and other responsibilities defined by the court’s head. The deputy head of the Trial Chamber organizes the work of the relevant Court Chamber, forms a college of judges to deal with cases, presides in judicial proceedings or appoints judges to do so. Organizes the conduct of judicial statistics, analyses of general court practice in cases referred to the jurisdiction of the Chamber has the right to order cases from the relevant court, and court decisions that have gained legal power inform the Head of the Court of Justice of the activities of the Court of Justice of other powers. In the absence of the head of the Trial Chamber, the Deputy is responsible for his duties and, in the absence of him, the Chief Justice of this Chamber is the Chief of Staff. The first deputy and deputies are assigned to positions and are released in the order in which article 20 of this law is established, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u282	236 votes. [[18:40:32]] For the 15th. Not supported. 238, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u283	Jury Karmazin Amendment 238 foresees the implementation of a constitutional position that aims at direct execution of the peoples of the government – this means that I propose to complete the draft with a new article, which is called the “Court of Jury”. To deal with criminal cases involving crimes under the Criminal Code of Ukraine, judges are serving sentences in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty. The way in which the jury is formed is determined by this law, and the order in which they are involved in the exercise of justice is a procedural law. I would like to point out, Your Honor, that since the adoption of the Constitution since 96, you and I have failed to implement the jury's court. I believe that we are doing so on the basis of the Constitution, which provides for such a court and direct participation in justice. I'm showing you, enemy of the people who are written here: the people take it directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u284	The 238. is on the vote. [[18:42:02]] For the 15th. Not supported. 241st Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u285	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! It's about where we started this law -- about the thorough specialization of the judicial system. And in the right column, it's suggested that there are higher specialized courts in criminal, civil, farm and administrative matters. I suggest that these are just two specialized courts that are in the state today, that's too much, because they are essentially their courts of civil jurisdiction. So please put it to the vote. 241 votes. [[18:42:59]] For-12. Not supported. 243. Sobolen. Shustik, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u286	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The point of the amendment is not to create a higher specialized court in Ukraine on civil and criminal matters, since the creation of such a court is contrary to article 125, section 2, of the Constitution. Moreover, in its previous conclusion, the Venice Commission opposed the creation of such a court, which is in fact unconstitutional. I would also like to remind you that such a court has in fact been tried once before, formed in the previous version of the Court of Justice Act, but by another name, it was called the Court of Cassation of Ukraine and its formation was recognised by the Constitutional Court as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. I mean, once again, it's an anti-constitutional norm that's actually proposed for voting and I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u287	243 to the vote. [[18:44:16]] For the 10th. Not supported. It's a knock-off. 252nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u288	Please support and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u289	252 is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:44:43]] For -8 Not supported. 253th? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u290	Yuri Carmazin. Attention, everyone, calm down! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very principled matter -- the species and composition of the higher-ranking courts. I propose that it be written: “The higher courts of specialized courts are the Supreme Economic Court and the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. A senior is composed of: head, first intercessor, substitutes. A special judge is a judge who is elected on an indefinite basis, has served as a judge for at least 10 years, and has served as an administrative officer in a lower court for which the head of the court and his deputies are appointed. In the Supreme Special Court, the number of judges who exceed 45 appointments of more than two deputies is allowed for one alternate to each additional 45 judges. The Supreme Specialized has established chambers to deal with specific categories of cases within the relevant jurisdiction. The Trial Chamber is headed by the Head of the Court Chamber, who is appointed by the number of judges of the Court. The decision to form the Trial Chamber and its composition shall be taken by the congregations of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u291	The 253 is on the vote. [[18:46:12]] For-13. Not supported. Please pay attention and care to Karmazin. 254th? Who's from? Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u292	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this amendment actually brings us into line with the overall structure that we will now be able to clearly establish order. And that's why I would suggest that this amendment, which is now defined as sufficiently prioritizing to all of the previous amendments, would allow us to set up a system where constitutional norms will not be violated. And I would suggest that this amendment be supported. Moreover, in fact, we now have the opportunity to put order in the general system of justice, and thus not to go back in the following articles to those articles that directly violate the norms previously defined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u293	The 254's on the vote. [[18:47:30.]] For-12. Not supported. 261. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u294	In our view, this article makes it possible to establish clearly the limitations and requirements that apply directly to the judge of the High Court. These two limitations and those requirements allow for further determination by the appropriate authorities in order to be appointed to serve as judges, which requirements are binding and which are optional. Whatever the case, this is actually a subjective approach. That is why the alternative that we offer is that it is possible to set it once and for all and not to go back to the following articles. I would suggest that you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u295	The 261st vote. [[18:48:36]] Z-11. Not supported. 263. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u296	Yuri Carmazin. I propose to determine the terms of reference of the judge of the High Court in article 33. This exercise of justice in a procedural manner is provided by procedural law. This is to carry out the process and to carry out the procedures necessary to ensure timely and qualitative consideration of matters. It is the exercise of control over the timely application of judicial decisions. It's other functions to perform, and the judge of the High Court has an assistant. A senior citizen who does not have dual citizenship, speaks a national language, has higher legal education at the level of a master or higher than an educational qualification level in foreign countries, and is recognized in Ukraine. There can be no citizen who has a trial or a disability of efficiency. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u297	Carmagine’s Offer by Number 263 votes. [[6:49:56]] For -14 Not supported. Moses, 265th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u298	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich, I began with the authority vested in me by the head of the local court of appeal. And now we've come up with an article that provides for the authority of the Supreme Court. Nor will he have the right to appoint himself a leader, a deputy, a machine, to encourage, to punish the employees of his court, which I do not think is right. And the practice is different.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u299	I'll put 265 on the vote. [[18:50:44]] For the 10th. Not supported. 272nd, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u300	I've written it down here that it's accounted for. The one who performs the duties of the head of the court for his absence and who wrote “refused”. It's counted. A deputy or a judge with a larger judicial background.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u301	Thank you. 274, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u302	Yuri Carmazin. 274 the amendment refers to the mandate of the head of the High Court. He carries out organizational management, assigns responsibilities among the deputies, establishes courts and submits proposals to the plenary for approval, convenes the plenary of the specialized court, manages the work of the courts, arranges the judiciary statistics, admits employees, approves the appointment, arranges for a higher qualification of judges, makes proposals for funding, informs the plenary of the Supreme Court about the activities of the High Court, represents the Higher Specialized Court in relations with other authorities, issues orders and orders, has a deputy and alternate judges, can be assigned no more than two terms. [[Well, obviously that means the head of the Senior Specialist is not such that the mandate ended, provided for by the Constitution, as according to Demchenko]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u303	The 274th vote is on the vote. [[18:52:20]] For-16 Not supported. 275, Prokopchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u304	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues! I would also like to point out that we actually have all the higher specialized courts completely shut down from the clear structure and system of the court itself. And so even though my colleague Karmazin mentioned it here, I'd like to introduce in paragraph 11 such a standard. Which informs the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine about the activities of the higher court. I mean, at least there's some information. Because otherwise we have every court specialized, it's going to be like a state in the state. So please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u305	The 275th amendment shall be voted on. [[18:53:23]] For -14 Not supported. 276, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u306	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I propose in this article that we define the mandate of the Deputy Chief of Staff of the High Court. But writing them isn't what the committee is now proposing. First. The first deputy and deputy are in charge of the structural units. And that's just where the deputy is written. An alternate, the Head of the Court of Justice, arranges for the work of the relevant Court Chamber. Next. Organizes an introduction to the organization of the work of local courts, carrying out other legal mandates. The first deputy and alternate shall be appointed by the number of judges of the court in question and shall be released at the invitation of the Head of the High Special Court in accordance with the order established by this law. In the absence of the Head of the Court, the Head of the Chamber shall act as his alternate. In his absence, the judge, according to the distribution of duties determined by the Head of the Court. Please support the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u307	276 amendments, to the vote. [[18:54:42]] For-16 Not supported. 279, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u308	This part of the second article 36 is also proposed to be presented in the text that is in the table, you can see. And of course, it also organizes the work of the plenary of the High Court of Specialists, which is a complement to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u309	The 279's on the vote. [[18:55:19]] For the 15th. Not supported. 281, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u310	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” The amendment is actually taken into account, but I want to go to the voters, to the judges, to those who listen to us, and I'm sitting here until seven o'clock, and I don't have the 300 amendments that went through maybe 50, maybe 40, none counted. I understand that it is the right of the authorities to adopt the law, not the opposition. Where there is a clear discrepancy with the draft Constitution of Ukraine, the Party “For Ukraine!” will refer to the Constitutional Court if the law is signed. I won't tire you anymore. Thank you for your attention and for your fruitful work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u311	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. I think by thanking him, we'll ask him to do a proper job with his colleague by the faction. And to the Vizier, to be a commuter among them. 286th, Bondik. Dear colleagues, 286th. Wait, I haven't voted yet. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u312	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I ask you to support this amendment by the National Deputy Bondik in view of the fact that the participation of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in the meeting of the plenary of the High Court of Specialists seems illogical in the context of the plenipotentiary powers. This position was also considered by European experts. They also asked questions about the relevance of participation other than those of other officials, the minister of justice and the Attorney General. I believe that there is no need for this, so please support this amendment and do not provide for the right of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney-General to participate in plenary meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u313	Novikova, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u314	I would also like to add that the same words are found in part four of article 44. For the same reasons, let us also rule out part four of article 44. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u315	Okay. Dear colleagues, Bondik's 286th amendment, taking into account the transcript of what the reporter said in the 44th, yes, 44th article in Part Four, is voting. Please vote. [[18:58:25]] For 229 Correction accepted. Behtz, 291st. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Yes, please, 291, Beales. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u316	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to go to Julia Volodymyrna. Julia Volodymyr, in principle, and to Alexander Volodymyrovich, the question is absolutely proseic. Who in the country would generalize court practice? I'd like to ask my colleagues who are in the way, if they're not here at all. I emphasize who in the country today will generalize court practice? Who will apply the rules of law in the same way? Why do all our specialized courts remain unchallenged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u317	Novikova, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u318	Practice will be generalized in courts, including higher specialized courts. We're moving away from making generalization of practice higher. By the plenary of the Supreme Court, we are moving away from this because the mandatory nature of the rulings of the plenary of the Supreme Court contradicts the principles of autonomy in the determination of specific cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u319	291 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:00]] For-44 Not supported. 293th counted in part. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u320	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. A colleague, General Beales, correctly said, and in 293 I have written down, the proposal is: Article 36th on the mandate of the plenary of the higher court of expertise to issue, inter alia, powers of attorney, gives a recommendation on the application of specialized courts of law in the resolution of cases under the relevant jurisdiction of the court. This is related to what has been said. The composition of the Scientific Advisory Council has been approved, hearing the head of the Supreme Court about the activities of the relevant specialised bodies, initiating the submission by the Supreme Court of proposals to the legislators of the legislative initiative on the need to amend and supplement the existing legislation with the aim of improving it, the plenary of the Supreme Court shall be convened by the head of the higher specialized court, if necessary, or at least by a requirement of at least five parts of the composition of the judges of the higher specialized court, but not less than two times a year. Day and time are reported no later than 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u321	293 amendments shall be voted upon. [[19:01:35]] For -14 294th. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u322	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Amendment 294 refers to such an official as the secretary of the plenary of a higher court. The person in charge, not just the secretary who runs something, some records. The secretary of the plenary of a higher court of expertise, along with the execution of the terms of reference of the judge of a higher court of expertise, is organizing the preparation and holding of plenary meetings. The secretary of the plenary of the higher court shall be elected to the office of judges of this court for a term of five years and shall be dismissed from office as a prisoner of a higher court of expertise. The procedure for selecting and dismissing the secretary of the plenary shall be laid down by the rules of procedure of the plenary of the High Court.” Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u323	There is 294 amendments to the vote. [[19:02:40]] For-13. Not supported. 295th, Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u324	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I propose the title of article 37, which reads: “The Scientific Advisory Council and the official website of the Supreme Court.” You realize that this is the 21st century, and there should be legal requirements for an official website. It is man who today has absolutely no way out of the house. That's why I insist on voting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u325	We're voting 295. [[19:03:34]] For the 15th. Not supported. 296th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u326	The 296th amendment is Baburina, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u327	Oh, I'm sorry, 297.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u328	Doesn't Babourin insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u329	Don't insist. I understand you're tired, but work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u330	Yeah, repair 297. Yuri Carmazin. The Supreme Special Court has an official website on which the materials of judicial practice of a higher specialized court and other courts of the relevant court jurisdiction are published. Materials on the organization of the activities of the judges of the relevant court jurisdiction and other materials - provide free access to them for all those who wish. It is important to save the budget, the honourable national deputies, and to allow free access to such court materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u331	297 goes to the vote. [[19:04:43]] For-13. 298th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u332	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 298. It refers to the Supreme Court apparatus. “Organizational, information-help, scientific and expert support for the activities of the Supreme Court is provided by the Supreme Court. The director of the court’s apparatus has to organize the work of the apparatus, the management of the business, the archive, and the organization of work to improve the skills of the court’s staff. The managers and employees of the apparatus are government officials. Under the conditions of payment of work, tangible, medical, sanitary and transport insurance, the staff of the court apparatus shall be compared to the relevant categories of civil servants of the central executive body.” Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u333	298 amendments, we vote. [[19:05:46]] For the 15th. 305, Sobolev. Shustik, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u334	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This amendment proposes article 38 of this bill to bring into line with 125 articles of the Constitution, which defines the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the highest judicial institution in the system of Ukrainian courts. That is, the amendment proposes that the Supreme Court be empowered to review the judicial decisions of the courts of general jurisdiction under exceptional circumstances in the order established by the procedural law, to review the judicial decisions of the courts of general jurisdiction in cases established by law, to examine other cases involving exceptional circumstances in the cases provided for by this law. Similarly, this amendment corresponds to 38 articles with 17 articles of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u335	305 is voting. [[19:06:57]] For -14 Not supported. 311 amendment, Sobolev. Please, 311, Soboljel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u336	Dear colleagues! This is a very important amendment, since the Supreme Court has a direct mandate to ensure the same application by the courts of law, so they should have the authority to do so. That is why my amendment directly refers to the fact that the Supreme Court should give mandatory clarification to the courts of general jurisdiction on the application of legislation on the basis of the generalization of judicial practice and on the basis of the text. This gives us reason to demand that the Supreme Court actually apply the same laws, and so we are now creating another higher court. And then we're going to have a situation where the opposite decisions are actually going to be corrected by the Supreme Court, but what's that going to mean? That is why, if there is an explanation of the Supreme Court, it gives him reason to continue to control how this is determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u337	311 votes. [[19:08:26]] Z-11. Not supported. 315th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u338	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved electors who have patience! The key article refers to the authority of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I propose not to depart from the Constitution and follow it; we kept as much of the Constitution as we could. It states: “The Supreme Court is the highest judicial body in the system of courts of general jurisdiction, ensuring the rule of law and the rule of law and the same application of legislation in the exercise of justice by all courts of general jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of Ukraine examines court cases in a case-by-case manner after they have been examined by the Courts of Appeal and the higher specialized courts, examines, under exceptional circumstances, the court’s decisions in cases and the procedures provided for in the case-law. Considers cases as a court of first instance in cases provided for by the law of procedure. He refers to the Constitutional Court for official interpretation, prepares and submits to the Supreme Council a submission that concludes in the cases provided for in articles 110 and 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u339	315 votes. [[19:09:53]] For-12. Not supported. 316th. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u340	Dear colleagues, this refers to 39 articles “The Composition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine”. If the preceding articles do not define the general composition of the courts, the appeal, the appeal agency, then the legislator has decided, for some reason, to determine the clear composition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. There is no logic, for it turns out that the relevant cases of appropriate qualifications relating to a particular case of judiciality will be determined by 15 judges who are not directly related to such cases in 20. That's why my proposal and my colleagues are to rule this article out at all. Since there is a previous article that clearly establishes which body is authorized to determine the number of Supreme Court cases, the number of cases will continue to be determined by the Supreme Court. Maybe it's 20, 30, or maybe 15 people, which is why, in our view, this does not actually allow justice to be done properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u341	316 is on the vote. [[19:11:21]] For-13. Not supported. 322nd. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u342	Yuri Carmazin. My amendment to the Constitution speaks of the composition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The Supreme Court of Ukraine consists of the Head of the Supreme Court, the First Deputy, the Deputys, the Heads of the Courts of the Supreme Court, the Deputy Heads of the Courts, the Head of the Military Judicial College of the Supreme Court, the Secretary of the Plenary of the Supreme Court and the Judges of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has courts in civil, criminal, farm, administrative, and military courts. There are at least 5 judges in the courtrooms, today, I recall that only military college has been expelled, and three judges in the Supreme Court of Ukraine are serving as a prisoner of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of the constitutional approach to the consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u343	322 votes for Carmazine's amendment. [[19:12:28]] For-12. Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u344	Amendment 326, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u345	Amendment 326. Yuri Carmazin. Here I define the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and his mandate, he executes justice in accordance with procedural law, the necessary procedural arrangements for the purpose of ensuring timely and high-quality handling of cases, he participates in the consideration of matters brought to the hearings of the relevant court and plenary, he examines the lower-level status of the judicial organization and provides them with methodological assistance, he analyzes the case-law, he makes proposals for its improvement, and he improves the Supreme Court judge has two assistants. A judge may be an assistant to a Ukrainian citizen who has no dual citizenship, has an internship of at least three years in the field of rights after obtaining a higher legal education and speaks a national language, and I stress in a language: one of the countries of the European Union. He cannot be a helper to a judge who has a trial. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u346	I'm betting on a vote of 326 amendments. [[19:13:52]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. The next 339 revision by Yuri Carmazin. It's considered editorially. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Let's do 342th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u347	It's not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u348	It's not editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u349	She's not counted, Vladimir Mikhailovich, she's not counted. This is article 41 — the mandate of the Supreme Court. The point is that the honourable you did not immediately support the amendment that your President said: “that every civil servant should know a foreign language” and you refuse. Those cases that go to the European Court of Justice, so that at least the person knows, even, a helper to some European language. What are we doing with you? Well, the Head of the Supreme Court accordingly organizes the activities of the Supreme Court: assigning responsibilities among intercessors, summoning the plenary, chairing a college court, bringing an application to the President for the formation and liquidation of the courts of general jurisdiction, determining the number, bringing the trial and the election and also for the dismissal of judges in accordance with this Act. And the Head of the Supreme Court also raises relevant questions for the plenary and I ask that I support this proposal fully as it is written in the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u350	339 amendments are being voted on. [[19:15:21]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 342 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u351	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 342 refers to 42 articles of the project. This is about how the Supreme Court is elected. The Head of the Supreme Court is to be elected and released by the plenary of the Supreme Court for a term of five years by secret balloting. The head shall be deemed to have been chosen if the majority of the total plenum is cast for it. The plenary on the issue of the election of the Supreme Court shall be convened not later than 1 month after the end of the previous head’s term of office. The procedure for the election and discharge of the Supreme Court shall be laid down by the regulations of the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. No change in the regulatory procedure is allowed later than 6 months before the end of the term of office of the Supreme Court’s term of office; he cannot be elected to the post for more than two periods of tenderness. I stress, honourable national MPs, that “do not change the rules during, so to speak, games”. That's why there's a six-month term. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u352	I'll bet you 342 amendments. [[19:16:41]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Olena Shustik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u353	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw your attention to article 42-1, “The procedure for early release from office of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The article was not considered by the Supreme Council in its first reading; it did not vote. Moreover, the text proposed by this article contradicts 128 articles of the Constitution. And I propose that this article be removed from the draft for the second reading of this article in its entirety, in contravention of article 116 of the Rules. The corresponding letter was addressed to your name today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u354	I will then put to the vote the deletion of this article, and you please determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u355	Wait. But I do consider this article to be an exception. The Supreme Council must vote. I am voting for the exclusion of article 42-1, which was justified by Helen Shustik. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:18:13]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Amendment 345. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u356	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. It is obvious to me that this law is passed against one man, his name Onopenko. Why are we doing this? I don't know. You'd better change your head and not break the Supreme Court then. Because they introduced a special norm that was not voted for, a violation of article 116 of the Rules. Honourable People’s Deputies, amendment to article 43, refer to the mandate of the Deputy Chiefs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The first deputy and deputy officers run the structural divisions and perform the duties, preside over the judicial colleges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, organize the work of the relevant courts. The first deputy and deputies of matters issue orders, appoint judges for a term of five years and are released by the plenary of the Supreme Court at the request of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The decision of the plenary shall be taken by secret ballot no later than 3 months after the date of the establishment of the relevant vacancy. They may also be released in a timely manner in the order established by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u357	I'm betting on a vote of 345. [[19:19:48]] For-12. The decision is not taken. 353 revisions. Sergei Sobolev, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u358	Dear colleagues, this amendment determines what order and what authority this law now provides for the direct direction of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. If this amendment is not adopted, it is virtually impossible to require the Supreme Court of Ukraine to enforce the laws. It responds to our previous amendment, which dealt with the general powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. That is why, at least if this is not already included, at least in this article it is necessary to record it, since it will not be possible to require both the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court’s head of authority as set out in the preceding articles and beyond. That's why I would ask for our amendment to be supported, and this will allow us to control illegal decisions, so that we can directly influence these decisions, give statistics about them. I would ask her to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u359	353 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[19:21:14]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 359 revisions. It's considered editorially. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it's not. 360 revisions to yours. Microphone, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u360	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, it's obvious that even the child we're holding now is Yulika's birthday today. Julika, I welcome you to this bill. Even if it's a birthday party. Article 44-prim. provides for the authorization of the Secretary of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The secretary of the plenary, along with the exercise of the authority of the judge, is organizing the preparatory work for the plenary meetings, which is the official person who is responsible for the implementation of the protocol, overseeing the implementation of the decisions adopted by the Plenary of the Supreme Court. The secretary of the plenary shall be elected by secret ballot from the number of judges of this court for a term of five years and shall be dismissed from office as a plenary for the appointment of the Supreme Court. The procedure for the election and release of the secretary and his release from office is laid down by the Rules of the Plenary of the Supreme Court. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u361	I'll bet you a vote on amendment 360. [[19:22:45]] For-13. Correction not accepted. 361 amendment. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u362	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. “Courts of the Supreme Court of Ukraine” should be presented in such an edition. [[Article 44.2]] Trials are conducted in cases referred to their jurisdiction in accordance with the procedure established by the procedural law, the examination of court practice and the examination of court practice, the preparation of draft regulations of the plenary. The Trial Chambers shall be established by decision of the Plenary of the Supreme Court at the request of the Head of the Supreme Court. The court is headed by the head of the court. The head should organize work, form a college of judges to deal with cases, preside in court or appoint judges, arrange for and analyse judicial statistics, inform the Plenary of the Supreme Court of the activities of the Court of Justice, make draft decisions to the Plenary of the Supreme Court on the clarification of court law enforcement issues with the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, proposals for the determination of unregulated judicial procedures, non-validated recommendations to the Plenary of the High Court of Justice, requests the subject of the law of the Legislative Initiative with proposals for changes to the law in force. Please support this amendment. It's on its way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u363	Amendment 361 shall be put to the vote. [[19:24:14]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Amendment 362. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u364	Yuri Carmazin. I propose an article on the Supreme Court of Ukraine's apparatus to be edited to ensure that the higher, Supreme Court of Ukraine can function as a higher body in the system of general jurisdiction. Organizational legal, information-help, science-expert, material and technical security must be provided by the Supreme Court apparatus. The total number, the structure, the position of the apparatus should be approved by the Chief of the Supreme Court by the plenary of the Supreme Court. The office of the Head of the Supreme Court, which is a structural unit, is responsible for ensuring that the Head of the Supreme Court exercises his authority. The head of the apparatus organizes the work of the apparatus, submits to the Head of the Supreme Court the appointment and dismissal of staff members of the Supreme Court, assigning them by law the order of rank of the civil servant applied to them, the imposition of disciplinary fees. He raises other questions that I have set out here in suggestions. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u365	I'm betting on a vote of 362 amendments. [[19:25:37]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Amendment 364. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u366	Yuri Carmazin, there was an amendment to Mr. Baburin's 363 regarding the expulsion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u367	Mr. Babourin is refusing his amendments, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u368	He's refusing? Thank you. Thank you. Part of the first article of article 45 is to be made available in such an editorial. “The Scientific Advisory Council shall be established before the Supreme Court of the High-Skilled Professionals in the field of law for the preliminary consideration of draft decrees of the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the clarification of legislation, on the conclusion of draft legislative acts and on other issues of the Supreme Court’s activities, which require scientific support. Please support this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u369	I'm betting on a vote of 364 amendments. [[19:26:39]] For-13. Correction not supported. Amendment 365. Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u370	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Well, in general, it'll even sound like what's being put out, and it's perfectly true on the seven pages, and it's impossible, and none of it's said to be counted. Obviously, this is saying again that this bill will now completely destroy our judicial system. And besides, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yes, the Ukrainian judicial system, the Ukrainian state and the Supreme Court of Ukraine and generally the judicial branch of power, as an independent branch of power, one in three. And I also want to go back to the article of the Rules, because article 42 with footnote 1 was not in this bill, which says so. That this bill is full of counterfeiting, which just across the knee they want to drag through the Party of Regions and those with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u371	I bet on the vote of Amendment 365. [[19:27:53]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 373 revisions, Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u372	Yuri Carmazin. The amendment refers to the independence and independence of judges, national jurymen, and jurors. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that this should also be the case with the jury. The judges, the national jury and the jury, in the exercise of justice, are independent of any influence and subject only to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Interference with a judge in the exercise of justice is forbidden, and the responsibility established by law is entailed. The guarantees of the independence of judges, national jurors, jurors are enshrined in the Constitution, this law, and other laws of Ukraine. The judge executes justice on the basis of the Constitution and the laws, in accordance with this principle of the rule of law, judges, national jury, the jury is guaranteed freedom, an impartial solution of cases in accordance with the law, their legal awareness and their internal conviction. [[Which we've thrown out of the law for some reason.]] Judges are not obliged to give any explanation for the cases they have dealt with, the court decisions on which they have obtained legal power and the cases they are conducting, except in the cases provided for in the Constitution and in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u373	Amendment 373 shall be put to the vote. [[19:29:23]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 374 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u374	Yuri Carmazin. The correction is very simple. Please state the name, which is today called “The Immaculateness of Judges” to the more correct title “The Inviolability of Judges, People’s Judges and Juries”. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u375	I'm betting on a vote of 374 amendments. [[19:29:59]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 375 amendment, Ivan Verni Dubov. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Then it's 380, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u376	Yuri Carmazin. I was talking to the healthy part of the room, which was still healthy, and I think they support the name, no. So, you know, unconscious stubbornness only causes one thing. I'll explain to you what the law should be according to the Constitution. And I'll explain until you ask as you ask until you accept normal standards. Sections four and six of articles 47 suggest the following: “The separation of a judge from a position in relation to the attraction to criminal liability is carried out by a qualified commission of judges of Ukraine on the basis of a reasoned decision of the Attorney General of Ukraine. A home or other possession of the judge or his office, personal or official transportation, inspection, search, or removal of his telephone calls, or a personal search may be carried out only on the basis of a reasoned decision of the Court of Appeal. The defendant’s conviction is determined by the Head of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u377	I'm betting on a vote of 380 amendments. [[19:31:38]] For the 15th. No correction supported. 388 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u378	What, Vladimir Mikhailovich, do all the other rejected amendments take their people off or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u379	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u380	Don't insist. Right. Yuri Carmazin. I propose that article 47 be supplemented by part 8 of this content: “The legal guarantees of the independence and inviolability of judges are extended to the national jury members at the time of their execution in the court of justice.” I hope there's nothing wrong here that'll keep the coalition from voting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u381	I'm betting on a vote of 388 amendments. [[19:32:35]] For -14 I didn't make it. For 14, no decision is taken. 389 revisions. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u382	398 revisions. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for voting late for my amendments. Part one, second article 49, suggests: “The judges, the heads of judges and their deputies, the judges in retirement, the national jury and the jury have certificates that are approved by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine according to the consent of the Council of Judges of Ukraine. The judges appointed for the first time are signed by the President of Ukraine, and the judges, who have been elected on an indefinite basis, by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine shall sign a certificate to the Head and to the Deputy Judges of the Courts.” So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are forever, because you are untimely signing a ruling to the judges. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u383	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 389 amendments. Please vote. They're taking away the right to sign the papers. Is that right? [[19:33:54]] For the 15th. The solution. The amendment is not supported. Yuri Prokopchuk, 390 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u384	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. This amendment is precisely about signing. Where it is stated that the testimony of the judge, the head of the court, the deputy head of the court and others is there by text. In fact, I propose “representatives”. It's stylistic. That's absolutely more right than one deputy. So that's the kind of amendment that's, well, obvious. Some need to learn Ukrainian, evidently. That's why there's no politics here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u385	I'm betting on a vote of 390. [[19:34:51]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Amendments 391, 392, 393 - Yuri Carmazin Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u386	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm very glad you're counting on it, but for every amendment, I have a regular right. That's why the 391 amendment is honorable. “The legal status of the judge is determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, by this law and by other laws of Ukraine.” Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u387	I'm betting on a vote of 391 amendments. [[19:35:40]] For-13. Correction not supported. 392 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u388	Yuri Carmazin. The 392nd amendment refers to changes to the part of the first article of the 50th, which, secondly, should be interpreted as follows: “The Court is a citizen of Ukraine who, according to the Constitution of Ukraine and this law appointed or elected judge, holds a permanent judicial office in one of the courts of Ukraine entrusted with the powers of judicial authority to exercise justice in the courts and perform its duties on a professional basis.” In this regard, please consider the second part to be part three. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u389	I'm betting on a vote of 392 amendments. [[19:36:34]] For -14 Correction not supported. 393th Amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u390	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we guarantee a judge who holds office on an indefinite basis, to be in office until he reaches the age of 65, except in cases of dismissal or resignation of a judge in accordance with this law. The judge is to be dismissed only on the grounds provided for in the Constitution by this law. In the event of a reorganization or liquidation of the court, judges are transferred by their consent to other courts of the same level. The judge cannot be transferred to another court without his consent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the case of the adoption of this law, about 10,000 cases going to or from the Supreme Court are going to depend, that's 10,000 percent of the people. It's a fibula for years and years, which, I'm not saying anymore that they won't see justice because they won't cancel the decisions of seniors. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u391	I'm betting on the vote of Jury Karmazin's 393rd amendment. [[19:37:57]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. The 400 amendments, the Jubilee, the esteemed colleagues, are part five. One minute, Yuri Anatolyovich. Hairpiece, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u392	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There is a proposal in line with the Rules to vote 395, but to vote on this article in the first reading, even though the committee has supported and considered it. Since the standard is designed in such a way that judges at a time when they are required to perform their duties as judges, they still have the opportunity to teach, to engage in creative activities, something else. They haven't been in court since 2007, and they've been doing creative work, that is, singing, painting, and so on. So I ask you to confirm the vote on the article in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u393	Dear colleagues, we can't put to the vote now to confirm the editorial in the first reading, which is the amendment of the People's Deputies of Moses. So I can put to the vote a confirmation of the amendment, if you'll excuse me, about the confirmation of the amendment of Vladimir Stretovich, right? I am voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment 395. [[19:39:51]] For 234 Correction confirmed. Now the 400th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues! We've considered part four, please bear that in mind. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u394	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I propose to set out part three, part four of article 52 as follows: “The judge cannot be a member of political parties, trade unions, charities, brothers in political action, rallyings, strikes. The judge on his application may be assigned to work at the Supreme Council of Justice, the qualified commission of judges of the Ukrainian Commission, the disciplinary chamber of judges of Ukraine, the National School of Judges of Ukraine, and the preservation of salaries at the main workplace. The head of the relevant court shall, in the event that the judge is on board, issue an order for the court to be dispatched, and shall not participate in the exercise of justice within the time limits of deployment.” It's about involving the judges now and the Higher Qualifications Commission, the Higher Council of Justice and the Disciplinary Chamber. The point is that they have no one’s status to fear and no one to influence them. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u395	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 400, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, please note. [[19:41:20]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 401 amendment, Dmitri Mikitovich, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Eugene Kirilchuk, no. Sergey Vlasenko, 403 amendment, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u396	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. What this amendment is about, by the way, is the only amendment to 1,600, which was initially supported by the committee, and then two hours later rejected by the committee in the same warehouse. So this is the only amendment that's gone through this procedure, it's related to the next one. Article 53 of the bill seems to introduce a declaration of revenue and expenditure by judges. So this is what is declared to be the huge victory of this law. But the analysis of this rule tells us that nothing is going to happen, the judge is going to fill out a formal declaration just like now, and again we're going to be surprised that a judge with a salary of 2,000 bracelets lives in a small cabin in Concha-Spas, up there in four floors, driving on "Lamborjin" or something else. So I suggested, first of all, that we set up a list of relatives whose income is also required to declare whether they live with a judge or not. Also, a list of what is covered by the concept of a financial obligation, so that we do not have a judge telling us that he will rent the house in two.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u397	Dear colleagues. Please complete your amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u398	So without introducing such a real mechanism to declare financial obligations to the judge, we will not get anything, and it will be just an empty declaration that will force us to return to that standard again after a while. So I'm asking her to support me, I'm stressing again, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u399	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 403 amendments. Please vote. [[19:43:30.]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Tolstenka, are you insisting on your amendment? No, it's not. Yes, Danilenko, do you insist? No, it's not. Logwinko no, Bondik no, Sweden no. Baburin is not. I'm going to your repair. 426th. Carmazine's repair. Please change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u400	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u401	Come on, Yuri Anatolyovich, come on. Yuri Carmazin, please, then we'll be back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u402	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It's proposed with regard to the text of an oath to change, because we release people for breaking an oath, it has to be concrete and concrete, and now this is such an ambitious* definition of an oath, it allows you to hang up and release any of the conscientious and orderly judges who just didn't agree with any of the authorities. That's why I specify what might happen. I hereby solemnly swear, objectively, impartially, impartially, impartially and fairly, to exercise justice, subject to the rule of law alone, and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, honestly and conscientiously discharge the duties of the judge, to ensure the legality of all the parties to the trial before the law and the court, to ensure the proof of the case, the victory of the parties and the freedom to give them their evidence to prove their conviction before the court, to ensure the accused's right to defend the publicity of the trial and to make it fully fixed by technical means. When a decision is made, consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u403	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the MPs will read the text themselves. I'm putting to the vote 426 amendments. [[19:45:51]] For the 15th. Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues! The 409 amendment is partially taken into account by Sergei Vlasenka, but he insists on this amendment, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u404	Sergey Vlasenko of the Yulia Timoshenko. Really, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This amendment also applies to the same famous article 53 — the declaration of income and the cost of judges. Once again, I'm addressing you with my esteemed colleagues, that if we leave an article in such an editorial, even with partial consideration of my amendment, it will mean only a declaration -- a declaration to fight corruption in the judicial system. And we're going to have a situation where the judges, I emphasize once again, are going to come to court on expensive cars that they seem to rent to their parents at small expense, they're going to live in big mansions, we're going to try to get them to be responsible for breaking their vows. But they're not going to give everyone in their paws "legal documents that they rent for two cents from their relatives, friends and so on. So once again, I urge everyone to vote on this amendment as a whole, not in part, in order to really fight corruption, not to declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u405	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 409 to support it fully. [[19:47:22]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 431 revisions. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u406	431 amendments refer to the status of national jury and jury. And, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, help with some technical means to our people's deputies, they're trying to paint the flag of Spain. But it's much easier to make the flag of Ukraine there, let them put it out and everything will be clear what they want. The status of the national jury and the jury determines that they must be citizens of Ukraine who ensure, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the direct participation of the people in the exercise of justice in cases and order provided for by procedural law. The jury may be Ukrainian citizens, who, in the case and order provided for by this law, are involved in the execution of justice before appeal courts in a particular criminal case. Its rights and duties are prescribed by procedural law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u407	I'm betting on a vote of 431 amendments. [[19:48:43]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 432 revisions. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u408	432 revisions. Yuri Carmazin. It refers to the list of national jurors and jurors. The list of local and general courts and jury appeals courts is drawn up and approved by the local authorities, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the basis of the voter lists for 4 years, and is reviewed as necessary, but not earlier than once for 2 years. The list includes the jury of the local general courts and the jury of appeal courts, the number of the heads of the court of citizens who are permanently residing in the territory to which the jurisdiction of the court is extended and who have agreed to serve as a national assembly. The list of members of the military court garrison at the head of the court is approved by the chief of the garrison. The list includes the number indicated in the application of the garrison court’s heads, which meet the requirements set out in article 58 of this Law, and have agreed to serve as a national jury. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u409	Amendment 432 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[19:50:10]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 434 amendments, 435ths, 436ths are the amendments of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u410	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I see my amendments. The amendment says that I ask you to change the title of the article and write: “Requirements to the jury and jury.” We've got a jury out of here, out of the name. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u411	I'm betting on a vote of 434 amendments. [[19:51:01]] For-12. The decision is not taken. 435 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u412	The 435 amendment foresees that, George Carmazin, who could be a citizen of Ukraine, who is 30 years old and who lives in the territory of the relevant Court of Appeal. As you can see, I'm proposing a 30-year-old age, because the election of 25-year-old judges has shown that it's still very, very early. Therefore, the jury should be a little wiser. Please be supportive. With regard to 436 amendments, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will not insist on it, some of it is really taken into account by Julius Volodymyr. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u413	A decent man.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u414	I bet on the vote of amendment 435. [[19:51:55]] For-13. Correction not supported. Amendment 437, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u415	Amendment 437 foresees, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the basis for exemption from the duties of a national jury or jury, for it is clear that once an appointment is in place, there must be exemption. A person who accordingly cannot be included in the list but who is included in any of them is relieved of the duties of the head of the relevant court. Women over 55 and men over 60 are relieved of their responsibilities. Women who are on leave because of pregnancy and childbirth, those who are on leave to care for their children, as well as those who have children under the age of 14 or who have children with disabilities, or who are caring for those who are seriously ill or other family members who are in need of foreign care. Leaders and substitutes, and heads of local self - government bodies, individuals who, because of their religious beliefs, view themselves as impossible to share in the exercise of justice. Others, if the head of the court considers the reasons for their reference to be valid. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u416	I'm betting on a vote of 437. [[19:53:19]] For -14 Correction not supported. Amendment 439, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u417	Yuri Carmazin, 439 amendment. It is suggested that article 60 be amended to complement part five with seven such contents. The procedure for the selection of the national jury to deal with a particular case in court and the procedure for the transfer of an oath is determined by procedural law. People’s jurors make an oath of this kind in court. “I solemnly swear to the people of Ukraine to perform the duties of a national jury or jury in question, impartially and fairly, in compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.” The jurors of the jury sign the text of the oath, which is kept in court, because we give them the same powers when we vote and the same voice as the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u418	I'm betting on a vote of 439 amendments. [[19:54:26]] For -14 Correction not supported. Amendment 440. Yuri Carmazin's microphone. Four-four-four-one can go right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u419	No, Vladimir Mikhailovich, they're big. The amendment requires amendments to article 60, “Involvement of the national jury to perform its duties in court”. The court shall appoint a national jury who shall serve for a period of not more than one month, except in cases where the extension of the term is due to the need for the completion of the case initiated by their participation. A written invitation is sent by a court of law. The employer, his duties here, are settled, is obliged to release the national jury or the jury from work while he is performing his duties with the exercise of justice. Refusal to work is considered disrespectful and entails the same responsibility of the guilty officials. A national or jury member is obliged to appear in due time at the invitation of the court to participate in a court of law. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer you European civilised standards, from which you are very, very far away today, and you do not want to approach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u420	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 440 amendments. Please consider Yuri Carmazin’s arguments. [[19:56:03]] For -14 No correction supported. 441 revisions. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u421	441th partially counted. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't insist on football.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u422	Thank you. 443 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. And 444 amendments, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u423	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please don't help me, I'm not helping you. 443 amendments, she's talking about the jury. The jury should be citizens of Ukraine who have passive electoral rights and are legally involved in the exercise of justice by the jury, ensuring, under the Constitution, the direct participation of the people in the exercise of judicial authority. This, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is of interest to many today. It's got to be. The formation of a jury college is carried out by an automated documentary system based on the principle of authenticity, based on data obtained from the State Register of Voters, who are constantly living in the territory to which the jurisdiction of the district extends. They cannot be involved in the exercise of justice as national MPs, members of the government, prosecutors, employees of internal affairs, other law enforcement agencies, deputies of local councils, rural, rural, city heads, military officials, judicial officials, lawyers, notaries. That's the kind of people you can choke on. And carcases, of course, can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u424	I'm betting on a vote of 443 amendments. [[19:57:49]] For-13. No correction supported. 444 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u425	444 amendments, one of the key, distinguished national MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! She's talking about jury trials. In 14 years, which we have not yet introduced, the jury must be made up of 8 jurors and a professional judge. The jury is formed to deal with the first instance of the courts provided for in articles 115, 119: murder, article 146: unlawful deprivation of liberty or kidnapping of a person, article 151: unlawful placement in a psychiatric institution, parts 3 and 4 of 157: obstruction of the exercise of electoral law, part 12 of article 158: falsification of electoral documents, article 160: violation of referendum legislation, 162: violation of housing integrity, 170: obstruction of legal activity, 172, 182, 340, 359, 364. There is still a list of articles on which the jury is to be tried. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u426	The vote is amended as follows: 444. [[19:59:19]] For -14 Corrections are not accepted. 445th, 446th, Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 449.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u427	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 449 suggests that part of the first article 63 should be made in such an editorial. The language refers to who may be recommended to serve as judge. This could be a Ukrainian citizen under the age of 25 who has a higher legal education and a legal internship of at least 3 years; resides in Ukraine as a Ukrainian citizen for at least 10 years; and speaks a national language. Please support such requirements to the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u428	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 449. [[20:00:18]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 453 Amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u429	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Fatherland” Party, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. My proposal for judges in high-level courts is that part three of article 63 should be edited as follows: “Separate categories of judges are subject to such additional requirements. First. The judge of the Court of Appeal and the higher specialized courts may be a Ukrainian citizen, who has reached the age of 30, has a higher legal education, an apprenticeship in the field of law at least five years, including no less than three years in the office of a judge. The other one. The judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine may be a citizen of Ukraine, who has reached the age of 35 at the time of election, has a higher level of legal education, an internship in the field of law of at least 10 years, including at least 5 years in the capacity of a court of appeal or a higher court of law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u430	I'm betting on a vote of 453 amendments. [[20:01:40]] For-13. No correction supported. 454 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u431	Yuri Carmazin. An extremely important amendment applies to additional requirements for judges in higher courts. This means that the judges of specialized courts should have additional training in the matters of the jurisdiction of these courts, the judges of the Court of Appeal and the higher specialized courts may be a citizen who has reached the age of 30 years, has a higher legal education, has a legal service of at least five years, including at least three years in the judiciary. The judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine may be a citizen of Ukraine, who has reached the age of 35, has a higher legal education, an internship in the field of law for at least 10 years, including no less than 5 years in the capacity of a court of appeal or a higher court of law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u432	I'm betting on a vote of 454 amendments. [[20:02:46]] For-12. No correction supported. 455 Amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u433	It suggests that part four of article 63 be excluded. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u434	I'm betting on the vote on this amendment, i.e. 455th. [[20:03:16]] For-9 Correction not supported. Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, 458 correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u435	Part of the first article 64 after the words “according to the results of special preparation” is added here to the words “at the National School of Judges of Ukraine”. So it's formalized where it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u436	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 458. [[20:03:59]] For-12. Correction not supported. Let's go back to correction 456. Microphone, Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u437	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I ask Amendment 456 not to support, given that it changes the concept proposed by the President of Ukraine for the preparation of candidates for judges, which should consist of two elements: theoretical preparation and practical. The higher school of judges in Ukraine still has to serve as a special institution, which is not a training facility to enhance the qualifications of judges. Therefore, the proposed editorial is substantially correcting what was proposed by the head of state. Please don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u438	Dear colleagues, I vote in favour of Amendment 456. Well, now it's counted. [[20:05:09]] For-9 Dear colleagues, the amendment is not supported. Sergey Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, the point is that if the committee has taken the amendment into account and there is an insistence on putting it to a vote for confirmation, we should. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how she's accounted for! And when there was pressure from the Ministry of Justice, I put it to support, it wasn't supported, it only voted nine people. All right. She was then. Amendment 456 is off. Yes, dear fellows, now we move on. 459 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u439	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. It goes to this amendment on the selection of candidates for a judge is carried out on competitive grounds in the number of persons who meet the requirements laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine and in article 63 of this Act as a result of the special preparation and the completion of a qualified examination in accordance with the requirements of this law. The candidate who has won the highest number of points has the right to choose the court to which the judge will be appointed. The point is that these assignments are completely opaque today. The so-called reserves are filled with corruption, so let's figure out, let's write it down normally. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u440	I'm betting on a vote of 459 amendments. [[20:06:48]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Amendment 462, Filipenko, Oil. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Carmazine, 464.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u441	Yuri Carmazin, 464th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u442	And the 465th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u443	No, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, I'll tell you myself. Okay? The amendment concerns the rights equal to those of Ukrainian citizens to have access to judicial office. Therefore, I propose to write: “Everyone who meets the requirements set for a candidate in a court of law has the right to apply to a qualified commission of judges in Ukraine with an application to participate in the selection of candidates for a judge.” This causes all sorts of corruption. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u444	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 464. [[20:07:57]] Z-11. No correction supported. 465 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u445	465 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. This amendment refers to the appointment of a judge, the specificization of the exercise of the President's right under article 106 of the Constitution. He appoints the President of Ukraine to serve as a professional judge. A person who had not previously served as judge for a term of five years. A person who had held a position before is less than five years old. Within this five-year term of office, the President makes recommendations to a qualified commission for the appointment of the High Council of Justice. In the event of a rejection of the application of the Supreme Council of Justice, the President shall issue an appropriate order, which shall be motivated. What's the point? In order for a person to have the right to charge him. Where do you want me to sue? In the Supreme Administrative Court. Another question is, how will they deal with it in the Supreme Administrative Court? Because our law with you today limits the rights of citizens: it does not give the right to appeal and cascading charges against these decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, which is a violation of the Constitution, which is brutal. Well, I've already prepared an application to the Constitutional Court for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u446	Dear colleagues, there are 469 amendments to the vote. 465th, I'm sorry. [[20:09:32]] For-12. Correction not supported. Now, dear colleagues, we need to be clear. Because we didn't vote on the 458 amendment. Yes, if I'm not mistaken. The Supreme Council did not support it, so it is now actually losing its significance to the 469 amendments. Alexander Volodymyrovich, right? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u447	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, 469 amendments she continued to implement the concept that was proposed in 456. In addition, she made it dependent on the faculties, institutions, and institutions of decision of the higher body. Obviously, this is impossible. So I ask you not to support this amendment either.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u448	So we have to vote on it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the confirmation of Amendment 469. [[20:10:44]] For 1 Correction not supported. Let's move on. 479th, Yuri Prokopchuk. That's how you count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u449	Partially counted. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u450	475 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u451	Actually, it's again about the teaching facility, specifically, the one that has to be prepared by all the judges on a professional basis. And that's why even though it's partially accounted for, but I think we should take it completely into account. Because there is nothing that would be contrary to our current legislation or, again, the basic law of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u452	But here we have a conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u453	And we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u454	What do we have to do with the fact that we have not supported the two previous amendments, and this amendment should be brought into line, too? So should we put her to a full vote for her support, or what? Please, Julia Novikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u455	The point is that the matter at 456 was about the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. And in that they have no relation to the decisions of the Higher Qualifications Commission. In other parts of the 456, Kiwalov’s amendment is normal and can be taken into account. So here we have to, if we don't count it at all, it's going to be 469 in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u456	Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not supported these amendments, this amendment should automatically be brought into conformity and not supported. I therefore vote in favour of Amendment 475. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, it disappears. I'd like to make up my mind. [[20:12:52]] For-9 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues! The same with the amendment of 477 Alexia Baburin. It is partially taken into account, but then it no longer works in the general context of what we have made. Then it is appropriate that they vote in line with the original articles to continue to fit in. We testify to that for the protocol. 479 Amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u457	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yuli Block. In general, the basis for all the amendments that I made today was the bill that I reported, by the way, not the worst. And according to the reaction of the judges from the cities and, in fact, there was an attachment to that very school, the National School of Judges. And the 479 amendment itself says that paragraph 6 of part one of article 65, after the words “admission of candidates who have successfully completed special training”, should be supplemented by the words “at the National School of Judges of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u458	Dear colleagues, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. But in view of the fact that we did not support the previous, it also makes no sense. [[20:14:30]] For-7. No correction supported. Dear colleagues, once again for the transcript, I say, because we did not support the 456 amendments made by the minister of justice and other amendments automatically, then everything will have to be brought into line with the text. Let's move on. Sergey Vlasenko, are you insisting on your amendment? 486th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u459	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. Honorable Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, as stated today in article 65 of the bill, essentially violates the requirements of article 106 of the Constitution. Since it is according to the Constitution that the President is authorized, that is, his will refers to the appointment of judges for the first time. But as this article in the bill has been drafted, this does not apply at all to the powers of the President, and this refers in fact to the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice. That's how I personally support the mechanism, as it were, of the President's ceremonial appointment, but that doesn't respond to the Constitution today. Once again, it is to the will of the President that the appointment of a judge is the first time. And that means that the President has the right both to refuse his appointment and to appoint those whom the Supreme Council of Justice considers unworthy to be in court. That is what is at issue in this article, and I propose that they be corrected. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u460	I'm betting on the vote 486 amendment of Sergei Vlasenko. [[20:16:26]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u461	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to make amendment 481, which is included in Prokopchuka's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u462	I mean, for confirmation, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u463	For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u464	I am voting on the request of the national MP of amendment 481, which is considered by the committee and requires confirmation by the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a vote coming. [[20:17:13]] For-19 The amendment is not counted. Yes, Yuri Carmazin 488. Is Yuri Anatolyovich out? Uh, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u465	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Sir, your head! I'd like you to have as long as you have time or your deputies to read 27 notes from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Chief Legal Authority, who wrote that it was looking at within the time you gave them, where the stone on the stone did not leave it on this shameful project, which just has nothing to do with getting the Constitution. You just want to kneel the ship system, but you can't. I ask you to read these comments and agree with them. And I propose to add here the announcement of a competition for a judge, so that in the event of an early termination, a qualified commission of judges has been informed of the opening of vacancies. And all the people who met the requirements were allowed to hold the competitions. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u466	Dear colleagues! The vote is amended 488. [[20:18:47]] For-12. While the vote is coming, I answer Yuri Anatoliyovich, and to all colleagues, let us amend the Law on the Rules, which would allow the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to allow the draft laws on which there are serious observations by the Legal Authority. Then it'll be all right. I'm asking you, let's make these changes and give us the right. I begged you all 116 to make a decision, you didn't want to take it. “For” – 12, the amendment is not supported. So let’s talk about this in due course. 489 revisions. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u467	Yuri Carmazin. The title of article 66 is as follows: “The submission by a candidate to a judge of the documents to a qualified commission of judges of Ukraine and the proposal that the notice of competition should always indicate: the appointment of the courts, vacant posts, the qualification requirements for a candidate to serve as a judge, the listing of copies of documents in accordance with Part 1 of Article 66 of this Act, the terms of appointment, the location, the postal address of the qualification. the commission, and the terms of the competition. And, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, you obviously don't know how the election is now taking place as judges. Yesterday I had people who have been walking for years and they ask, “Please show me what, with whose list.” They call the names of the officials in the country whose list is included when they are assigned. But let us put an end to this shameful practice, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So I suggest you consider my amendments, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u468	I put to the vote 489 amendment of Yuri Karmazin and while the vote is coming, I'll tell Yuri Anatoliovich that you didn't see my list there. [[20:20:33]] For-12. Correction not supported. Let's move on, dear fellows. Yuri Prokopchuk, Amendment 492.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u469	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Batakščina” Party, Ravenščina. Respectable citizens of Ukraine. Now you see how suddenly this bill is being raped. Even what's included to prove that the opposition is simply sitting here and their decision is absolutely nothing, goes back to voting even what is lawfully considered to remove it from this text. So this bill is once again going to be the verdict that will be all our judges, Ukrainian judges, who will only order those who will “keep them on the short leash” or the Party of Regions and their manuals. So I also insist on this amendment, where in addition to autobiographical data, they have to submit their statement of revenue to the judge. I mean, I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u470	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 492 amendments, and while the vote is coming, I'll tell my colleague: let's pick the words, because they've obviously left one manual and they've all left the room. Yes, if they were to sit in the hall and vote, they would probably support you. So we don't know who the guide is, who works for the Supreme Council. So come on, work. [[20:21:53]] For-13. The decision is not taken. I ask you again: Pick out your words. Pavlenko, 494 repairs. Will you support me? No, it's not. Then the cards came up and went, and the notes began to read. Sit in the hall here and we'll work. 496 repairs? Yuri Carmazin. Come on, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u471	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sitting in the hall, I'm sitting on a committee meeting, so what? Are they counted? I've been working on judicial reform for 15 years. Well, I can't figure out how to put a higher court together on civil and criminal matters. It's idiotism, it's understandable even for kids in school. What are you doing with the whole country of idiots?Oh, my God! I mean those law makers who sit behind this and run the puppeteering process. You don't have to do this! Either do it separately – the Higher Civil and Higher Criminal Court, or don't mistreat justice, the Constitution! And we, the opposition, remain here to make it clear to you that if you don't speak the court or he's unjust, then you will find yourself in America -- the Court of Colt, the Court of Lynch or some other court. I insist on amendment 496. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u472	Dear colleagues, this is Amendment 496 of Jury Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u473	It's a principled amendment. [[20:23:44]] For-16 Correction not supported. Amendment 499 Yuri Prokopchuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u474	The amendment is also designed to ensure that all our assignments are absolutely transparent. That is, part two of article 66 is to be completed with such a sentence. “The information on candidates is posted on the official web portal of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine and is publicly available.” Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u475	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 499. [[20:24:31]] For-16 No correction supported. Amendment 501 Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u476	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to familiarize yourself with the 27th page of the Law Department, which I thank for the courageous civil position that may yet claim to be independent of the scientific world so far. I insist and I want you to take a look at the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, where today, to each of you, 20 of our colleagues, scientists who say that rights are being removed from the Supreme Council Committee, that you MPs are becoming buttoned up when you're considering judges. Therefore, I propose that a special examination be carried out by a qualified commission to have the right to collect information about the candidate, to request information, and so on, in accordance with the amendment. And citizens have the right to submit information about candidates for judicial office. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u477	Dear colleagues, 501 amendments are made to the vote. [[20:26:07]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. We've considered, Your Honor, with you the fourth part of the amendment. It's a fix now. National MP Filipenko, please amend 502, so I understand. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u478	Thank you. Dear colleagues, amendment 502, which is supported by the committee. And the next amendment, 503, was made by me and my colleagues. We ask that the room be identified and supported or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u479	Dear colleagues, 502 and 503 amendments are included, but the authors demand that a proposal be put to the vote to support these amendments. I'm putting to the vote 502 amendments to confirm it. [[20:27:13]] For the four of us. So the amendment is not accepted. Now in a similar way, I'm voting to confirm Amendment 503. [[20:27:38]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 504 of Yuri Prokopchuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u480	Yuri Prokopchuk. It is suggested that part three of article 67 be supplemented by sentences two and three of such meanings. That organizations and citizens have the right to submit to the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine information on candidates for judicial office. To protect these citizens, it is suggested that the following sentence be added: “This information is taken into account by the Higher Qualifications Commission in making recommendations on the appointment of a candidate for judicial office. Information on persons who have provided information on candidates, disclosure and publication is not appropriate.” So this is how we protect those who provide information about an unscrupulous judge. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u481	Amendment 504 shall be put to the vote. [[20:28:50]] For -14 The amendment is not accepted. 506 revisions. Yuri Prokopchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u482	The title of article 68 is given in the following wording: “Special preparation for a candidate to serve as a judge at the National School of Judges of Ukraine”. Well, that's actually the logical line that was mentioned before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u483	Dear colleagues! I'll put her to the vote, this 506 amendment. Please be sure. [[20:29:34]] For-16 No correction supported. 507 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u484	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We have, we counted, here destroyed the two amendments that applied to this and we still have the text. I remind you, this was a 456 - year amendment and several amendments have been made to it. Basic, base was 456th. As a result, I may need to maintain this correction. But there is a question for the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. I would ask him to confirm what he is referring to throughout the text related to this article, so that we can repeat it again, for there are still dozens of articles of such things. So we can delete it if we do. And let Alexander Lavrinovich say how he feels about this. I don't insist on voting the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u485	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Logically and according to the Rules, if the original amendment is not supported there, then the text follows. I made that point. Please, Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u486	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, after the 456 and 469 amendments were not supported, this is part of the first article 68, it can no longer stay here because it is formed on the basis of those amendments. And all over the text, you have to leave the first reading, which was adopted, where the National School of Judges is located, and there is no combination of two types of judges' training. Thus, in 68 articles, only the first reading should remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u487	Thank you. In this regard, I would ask Yuri Prokopchuk not to insist on 509 amendments, which is appropriate there. 513 amendment, the same Yuri Prokopchuk. I would ask you not to insist. Let's go to the repairs. George Carmazin, edited amendment 521. Are you insisting on her? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u488	Here the principle is that a person who has failed a qualification test may be put to the test not earlier than a year later. [[Yuri Karmazin]] And which hasn't been done over and over again, maybe not before, but three years later, I'm asking a question. The committee counted two years. It's a question of relevance in two or three years. Maybe I agree with what I've taken into account, two years, maybe that's normal. And please don't put her to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u489	Thank you. I think we have a normal compromise in this regard. Let's move on. Amendment 526 Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u490	Yuri Carmazin. With regard to the 526 amendments, I would like to point out that there is a proposal to make a part of article 70 as follows: “A qualified commission of judges of Ukraine conducts a competition to replace vacant posts of judge and makes a selection of candidates taking into account the results of the qualification test and the number of candidates for the ball. The number of points awarded is the primary criterion in the selection of candidates for the vacancy of judges by the Higher Qualifying Commission. In the case of a candidate of the same number of points, the advantage is given to a candidate who has more experience in the field of law." I think it's a little bit more remote than what we're going to say until it's proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u491	Amendment 526 shall be put to the vote. [[20:34:02]] For the 15th. No correction supported. 535 amendment, Yuri Prokopchuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u492	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Fatherland” Party, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thus, paragraph 2 of part three of article 73 is proposed, where it is said that the Higher Qualification of Judges of Ukraine reports on the preparation of materials concerning the candidate for election of a judge on an urgent basis on its official web portal and local media to be supplemented by the words “where separate notes the rights of organisations and citizens provided for in part three of article 67 of this Act”. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u493	I'm betting on a vote of 535 amendments. [[20:34:59]] Z-11. No correction supported. Now the following amendment by Yuri Prokopchuk 538. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u494	538th, I also insist on her acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u495	Well, let's finish this right now, then we'll come back. Please, Yuri Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u496	Yes, I'm sorry if Yuri Anatolyovich or me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u497	No, no, you. 538 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u498	Paragraph 3 of Part Three 73 should be supplemented by the words “information provided by the organizations of citizens according to Part Three”. It's about how judges are appointed when there's information about them that won't allow them to take up this post, that is. There's all that stuff, that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u499	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 538. [[20:36:02]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Now 539 amendments, Sergey Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u500	Sergey Vlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This amendment applies again and again to the situation, and it is similar to the President's mandate, but it already applies to the powers of the Supreme Council. Regrettably, article 73 of the bill is written in such a way that, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council is deprived of essentially the right to make decisions on its own regarding the appointment of judges for life. This is going to be done for you and me by the High Qualifying Commission, and we're just going to push the buttons with you on the decisions that the Higher Qualifying Commission is going to make. This is in direct contravention of the Constitution. Therefore, I ask you to resolve the question that the Higher Qualifications Commission is obliged to transmit to the Supreme Council materials for candidates in a court of law, not just those it deems necessary, but all the materials that have come to it. And we are already in the Supreme Council Hall to determine who is worthy and who is not worthy to be a life judge. It's on the one side. On the other hand, the bill does not foresee a situation where the Supreme Council does not approve the nomination proposed by the Higher Qualifications Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u501	Dear colleagues, there's a problem here, but we agreed from the very beginning when we began to consider the issue that, with final editing, all of what was within the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure previous preparation, consideration and presentation on. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the final vote, this shall be taken into account. Otherwise, it would be contrary to the Supreme Council’s Rules and it would not be possible for all laws to rewrite the Rules, starting with the Budget Code and so forth. But I'm gonna fix it right now. I'll put 539 amendments to the vote and then. I'm betting on the 539th amendment of Sergei Vlasenka. And then the minister of justice's microphone. [[20:38:23]] For-22. Please. Correction not supported. Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u502	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to repeat what I said at the beginning of the plenary. The first reading of the paper proposed by the President of Ukraine envisions the appointment of judges without delay to the Supreme Council of Ukraine without further research, investigation and preparation in any parliamentary structure. This is just like what was done by the President of Ukraine, who voluntarily predicted that he would sign the decrees of ceremonial order, would not assume the functions of special investigations. So when it comes to correcting something, please correct strictly, according to the text voted in the first reading, and in accordance with the amendments voted in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u503	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consider this. At the same time, according to the laws and the Constitution, all the issues discussed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are discussed previously in committees. That's all we're talking about, no one's going to investigate anything. But the committees need to prepare questions for consideration at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think it should be, and it will be. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u504	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am raising this book, the Constitution, while it still exists. With the suggestions now expressed and accepted in the first reading, it is sinking. There's no 89th -- there's no committee mandate, there's no deputies' authority, there's no rights, there's absolutely no rights; there's a violation of the valid Law on the Election of Judges on an indefinite basis, which is not cancelled by anyone, it's today; there's a violation of the Law on the Rules, there's a violation of the Law on Status. And so how many laws are being broken because a bunch of reformers have appeared somewhere, which puppets?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u505	Basically.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u506	Vladimir Mikhailovich, if not in fact, what then?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u507	Basically, it's a fix.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u508	In fact, the amendment, if you want, I'm saying that I asked you to give me the word of correction from 534th colleague Bondik, who was absolutely correct in correcting the foolish position that was in the first reading, where it was written, "in the local media." He said, "The Voice of Ukraine" and "the Government courier" should be published. Here's what we have to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u509	Dear colleagues, the committee. Amendment 534. The committee. I'm asking for your attention! The committee considered the amendment in part, stating that the information was published in the official media and on the official web portal. “The Voice of Ukraine” and the newspaper “Governmental courier” are official editions. And plus the official editions are the ballots. It's wider. Dear colleagues, in order not to have a discussion, I am voting for full confirmation of the amendment of Valery Bondick in 534. The committee considered it in part. I think I counted it right. Please. The issue of official editions is a broader one. And these newspapers are official editions. [[20:41:58]] For-19 No full-range correction supported. Now I'm putting, please note, I'm voting for confirmation of the amendment to the committee. Please vote. [[20:42:32]] For 240 We have democratically accepted this amendment. Now, dear fellows, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u510	It does. 550 amendments, Sergey Vlasenko. It does.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u511	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, the 550 amendment refers to the possibility of accusing candidates of being a judge of uninterrupted refusal to make recommendations on him at the High Council of Justice. That's not the norm at all. So I would ask you to vote on it in the way it was proposed in the 550th amendment. Because otherwise, we have a situation where a candidate who is essentially deprived of the right to challenge the Supreme Council of Justice's refusal to make a recommendation on him, and accordingly is deprived of any opportunity to complete the selection procedure indefinitely. Why this amendment was rejected, I still do not understand. So I might like to hear the committee's reasoned opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u512	I'll bet you 550 votes. Committee opinion: Reject. [[20:44:09]] For-12. Dear colleagues! The decision is not taken. Amendment 554 Sergey Vlasenka. I'm sorry, Olena Shustik, microphone, please. What is your correction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u513	551. Helen Shustyk, 551 corrections, she responds exactly to the amendment of my colleague Sergey Vlasenka, and likewise refers to the possibility of a candidate for the post of judge to challenge a decision of the Qualifying Commission to refuse to hold this office. I will say that the editorial proposed by the voting committee today contradicts 131 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not give the Higher Council of Justice the opportunity to cancel, to review the decisions of the Higher Qualifying Commission. Such decisions should still be brought before the court, in fact, my amendment proposes a new edition of this article, which allows the High Qualifying Commission to appeal to the Kyiv administrative court on the 15th day of receiving a copy of the High Qualifying Commission's decision. Similarly, the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Ukraine to refuse the decision recommended by it to elect a judge on an untimely basis can only be brought before a court in the event of a violation of the legal procedure for dealing with the matter. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u514	Please, committee, offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u515	Editoring the committee only offers additional possibilities for the candidate to challenge the decision of the Higher Qualifications Commission. What is noted is that these decisions can be charged to the High Council of Justice in no way limit any candidate to the prosecution of these decisions. It is the inalienable right of every citizen to charge any decision, any body before a court of law. So I don't think there's a problem here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u516	I'm betting on a vote of 551 amendments. [[20:46:27]] For-16 Correction not supported. Now, 554th and 555th Sergey Vlasenka, and 556th of yours, and 557th of yours, all your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u517	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the 554th amendment concerns a situation that is not regulated by law. Because the prosecution procedure for the decision of the Higher Qualifications Commission, which is prescribed in the law, looks like this. That a candidate lodges a complaint and the law only settles the matter when the High Council of Justice leaves the complaint unsatisfying. However, there is absolutely no solution to the question of when the High Council of Justice supposes to satisfy this complaint and this issue remains unresolved under this bill. That's why I proposed amendment number 554, which deals with when a situation arises where the High Council of Justice satisfies the candidate's complaint about the action of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. And so the High Council of Justice on the idea would have to oblige the Higher Qualifying Commissions to give the necessary conclusion about such a candidate. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u518	It's 554th amendment to the vote. [[8:48:03]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 555th Amendment. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u519	My dear colleagues, regarding the 555 amendments, once again it seems to me that this amendment would have to be in line with the status of the decision taken by the Supreme Council on the outcome of the examination of the referrals of the relevant authorities by appointment of the judge on an indefinite basis. Because if it is a submission, it is so impressive that the Supreme Council seems obliged to sanctify it. And there is no authority to refuse to accept such an application if the Supreme Council considers that one or the other candidate is an improper candidate for the appointment of a judge on an untimely basis. That is why I have proposed to change the title of the article and to speak about the fact that in this case the higher qualification is a submission, I apologize for the recommendation, not for being elected to a judge on an indefinite basis in order for the Supreme Council to have authority and grounds, if necessary, to reject the recommendation of a candidate who, according to the Supreme Council, is a person who.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u520	I'm betting on a vote of 555 amendments. [[20:49:33]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Amendment 556 Sergei Vlastenka and 557th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u521	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. With this amendment, I proposed to amend part of the first article 77 and to present it as follows: “The recommendation of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine concerning the candidate for election of a judge shall be sent to the Supreme Council not later than one month before the end of the term of such a candidate to serve as judge.” Again, this is about the status of such a petition, if this is a submission, I would like to stress once again, there is no way in the Supreme Council to essentially reject this submission, but as a buttoned-up, I apologize, this decision must be sanctified and there is no way to express its will to elect a judge on an untimely basis. That is the authority given to the Supreme Council under the Constitution. So I ask you once again to support this amendment 556. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u522	I'll bet on a vote of 556. [[20:50:53]] For the 15th. The amendment is not accepted. 557 amendments, please, to Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u523	Sergey Vlasenka, Timoshenko Street. The proposed amendment deals with two issues. First. Again, the question is that the document submitted by the Higher Qualifying Commission is called a recommendation on one hand, and on the other hand the amendment is proposed to include the conclusion of the Higher Qualifications Commission on such a candidate. Because if it doesn't come to the right conclusion, how will the Supreme Council of Ukraine be able to make any decision about the person who is running for office on an indefinite basis if there is no conclusion. Because according to the text of the bill, we are only asked to give a name, a name, a parent candidate, a name for a court to which it is intended to be chosen and everything. And according to this, your honors, we're going to be choosing judges on an untimely basis, that's the name, the father's name and the name of the court, and please choose the Supreme Council. Without any conclusions, without anything. Once again, this is a violation of the constitutional function of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u524	I bet on the vote of amendment 557. [[20:52:24]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Amendment 558th. Yuri Carmazin. And 559th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u525	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 558th, and this is 558th. 559, that's different. Why? Because the national MP Vlasenko was right. Unfortunately, we are now going through a number of laws and the Constitution. What do we want? We want to give all the knowledge of the High Qualifying Commission “cat in a bag” will receive here and vote on buttons. I don't want to be a button. As a result, I also make a request for an article called 77 Prim. of this content: “Subjects to appeal to the Supreme Council on matters of election and dismissal from the position of judges elected on an indefinite basis. The subjects of the appeal are: the head of a qualified panel of judges, regarding the election of the Supreme Council, the judge of a general specialized court, the judge on an indefinite basis, whose term of office ended. A person who had previously served as a judge for at least five years but did not serve as a judge at the time of the election. The judge previously elected in absentia and the Supreme Council of Justice regarding the dismissal which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u526	I bet on the vote of amendment 558. [[20:53:56]] For-16 Correction not supported. 559 repairs. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u527	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the amendments that have already been considered have already mentioned what are the grounds for considering the materials. Well, I suggest you call it what it is. The reasons for considering the selection of a candidate for the post of judge are timeless. The reasons for considering the material involved in the selection of a candidate for judicial office are inexorably: the candidate’s first personal application; and the second, the submission of a qualified panel of judges. Without these reasons, it is obvious that nothing can be considered. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u528	559 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[20:54:57]] For-16 No correction supported. Amendment 560. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, and 561st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u529	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it was quite right to say that there was no requirement for a candidate to be elected to the post of judge on an untimely basis. You and I now want to destroy the Order of Election Act of the Supreme Council of Judges on an untimely basis. Let us at least carry on what is in this positive law. And it should be written that the application is timeless: the level, the location, the specialization, and the name of the court to which the candidate is to be chosen. A written statement by the candidate, a decision, a recommendation from the political commission, a record of qualifications, a copy of a document certifying citizenship, a special letter from the personnel, a copy of a diploma, a statement from the Labour Book, a description, a reference to work, a biographical reference, a copy of the decision of the authorized public authorities to appoint and transfer, a reference to the medical institution on the candidate’s health, as we have recently considered over the normally inadequate man and recommended, a statement on income in the last year from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. Please support these requirements without which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u530	560 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[20:56:30]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 561 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u531	Yuri Carmazin. From time to time, we have questions about the transfer of judges from one court to another. So I suggest we settle this with an article 77 with a badge 4. The application for the transfer of a judge from one court to another in the order of election shall be brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Head of the Qualificational Commission of Judges. Add to the application a special case to the judge, which is made up of documents mentioned in article 166 of this Law, which you did not support. But there must be all these documents. And then the Supreme Council makes a decision. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u532	I'll bet on the vote 561 of the amendment. [[20:57:32]] For the 15th. No correction supported. 562 revisions. John Verni Dub's microphone. Ivan Vernidubov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u533	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, it is a matter of principle. We, the Supreme Council, will participate in the formation of the judicial corps. If not, why call the judges here and vote in general, it will be a spectacle. If so, how can such a formulation deal with the question of the election of a candidate be considered on an indefinite basis at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council without the conclusion of the committees. In this, I don't think you can take it. We have to do it through the committees, or we're going to have a colossal, then by commissioning legislation and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u534	Julia Novikova's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u535	I would like to explain what the committee was doing when these amendments were taken into account. The fact is that many international organizations, including the Venice Commission, point out that the judiciary must be independent. It is to limit the influence of the executive or the President on the appointment of judges. And also the Supreme Council or the legislature. To the election. And it was from these positions that the committee came when it accepted and rejected the amendments regarding the selection of judges on an untimely basis. But I want to say such a thing. If we consider the amendment of 562 Verniubov, we're actually going back to the order that exists now. If we consider Amendment 563 of Kiwalov, it offers a compromise solution on this issue, where it is limited, where the matter is dealt with by the committee. But it's not really being considered, there's not going to be, there's not going to be any research, there's not going to be any additional material demand, and there's going to be no research.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u536	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u537	Decision - making is essentially the case. So basically we have three options now to vote with you. Or leave it in the first, in the first reading, that is, no interference at all. Or, as before, a compromise decision. And depending on how we move on it, then I'm the name that still comes up with the amendments and the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u538	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. It's like it's the right thing to do. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is receiving documents. But the question is, why do they come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine if there is only a name and a name for the court when the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to vote. Then, obviously, it is necessary for this issue to be resolved by the Supreme Council of Justice and not by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, there's a question. Why, then, the Supreme Council of Ukraine? In order to serve as a decoration? If the Supreme Council of Ukraine comes and even prepares a draft decision, does it have a committee? Who will prepare the draft decision then? And when we refer exclusively to the Venice Commission, I agree with you. But why do we not pay attention to the warnings of the Venice Commission on other issues? Why are we not paying attention? And in this case, I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should come from being the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What was then the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine if it was given the name and name of the court. Then you don't have to take her at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u539	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u540	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the point of the problem is that if the judge who worked for five years and there was no basis for his release, and there were no concessions, his candidature was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then his non-delegation could be in only two cases: either politically motivated non-delegation, or a politically motivated non-delegation. There are no other cases. The Supreme Council doesn't accept the exam, it doesn't assess the qualifications, so it's offered to everyone without exception the conclusions of the Venice Commission, including the last one yesterday. It's one of the main questions. That's why the President of Ukraine specifically held a meeting on this subject, especially at the meeting of the working group, and we have to answer the question, why, when the Higher Qualifying Commission sends an appointment to the judge on an open-ended basis. Some of these applications are considered for a month, for three months, and some are considered for several years after the deadline is reached. Can you answer the question? What are the motives for this? I mean, this rule is directed at the political and corruption impact on the appointment of judges. This is the position of the President of Ukraine and I ask you to support it, as set out in the first reading, and not to include amendment 562, or 563.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u541	Dear colleagues, I don't see any objections or contradictions here. If you have access to documents, please tell me where these documents should go. Is it obvious to the committee? Where are they supposed to go? Should they be transferred immediately to the Presidency? So let's write it this way. So let's just write it down a little bit simpler that the documents that come in are signed and sent back. And we don't have to juggle the Venice Commission here or anything like that. If they came, the committee prepared a draft decision and handed it over to us as soon as it suggested it was wrong. What's wrong is I can't understand this kind of question. It is easier and more democratic not to submit them at all to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but to accept them at once in the institution that brings them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What role does the Supreme Council of Ukraine play in this regard? We've got one show today. Things are gonna change, so we're gonna be, like, yelling again, what's wrong? [[B in m in s a l in]] I just understand the timetable, but I'm proposing, so let's actually look at the things that are here. That's what we're talking about. You don't want to. You don't have to. I put to the vote 562 amendments by John Verne Dubov and his colleague Fesenka: “In the second part of article 78, the words ‘without the conclusion of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and any checks’ are replaced by the words ‘after the consideration of such a matter and the conclusion of the relevant committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’. Please vote. [[21:05:30.]] For-50 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u542	We don't have a motive. We're about to make your amendment. We're going to have a motive. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no motive. Well, show me where it is in the Rules, then I'll give it to you. 560. Sergey Kiwalov doesn't insist on his amendment? Oh, no? Then 563 amendments. Do we have a microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u543	prepared the draft decision. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, who's going to technically introduce the Supreme Council project itself? We have found in this amendment that the committee itself will not vote, will not carry out checks. Is there a document that should be printed? Is there someone who should take it to the Supreme Council? Technical at least leave the Office of the Supreme Justice Council to implement the project. Who's that? Vladimir Mikhailovich is right here: who will bring it in? VCC is not entitled to submit. Who's that? Shall we look for an MP to make this amendment? This is a compromise option, at least so that we can technically implement the decision taken by the High Qualifying Commission. We've talked about this on the committee for a long time. And Julia Vladimirovna Novikov reported this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u544	Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u545	Well, frankly, that's the thing. And you could support that compromise in that way that the committee would be preparing without making a decision, but it would be preparing documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u546	Dear colleagues, I mean it this way. If even the technical function, the technical function, is not going to be performed by this committee, let's say directly that after the adoption of this law, we have to decide, in addition to everything else, to eliminate this committee. Do you agree with me? Absolutely agree. And the amendment of this content, I'm going to read it: “The question of the election of a candidate to a judge is discussed in a timely manner at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the question of the election of a judge to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being prepared by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for which consideration of the election and release of judges is to be considered. [[Next Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is introducing a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges immediately for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” What's wrong with that? I put to the vote this amendment 563, please vote. [[21:08:38]] For-68 Correction not accepted. Let's move on. 566 amendment, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u547	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u548	So we're discussing the amendment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u549	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm going to go back to the situation where the committee is looking at this question once. And second of all, in a situation where the Supreme Council can authorize a review of the judge. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I am addressing the Minister of Justice, is a third case that you have not mentioned, namely, when the deputy, when communicating with the electorate, receives information that has not reached the High Qualifications Commission for some reason regarding the corruption of a judge or another. And I have to say, according to statistics, 9 out of 10 of these MPs find their confirmation and the judge is not elected on an untimely basis. So to deprive the Supreme Council of the possibility that it would be possible for members to carry out checks on a judge or another judge, I don't think it's entirely correct and it doesn't correspond to the Constitution, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u550	I'm voting 566 amendments, I'm betting 566 amendments. [[21:10:17]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 569, Helen Schustik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u551	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the Supreme Council should be the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, the so - called majority in the Supreme Council today is demonstrating a position, not a state or a legal one. Not all, I'm sorry, the communists voted for the last two amendments. But unfortunately, it's real. And all the flimsy statements that the law will guarantee independence for the judges, unfortunately, seem unconvincing. Because more than what is contained in this law is difficult to predict. All authority over the judiciary, I have not mistakenly spoken or spoken, focused on this law, will be in the only body – the Supreme Council of Justice. And with regard to my amendment, I propose that we return our parliamentary functions with you to normal, control and return the basic function of our Justice Committee is to review the materials for the candidates that we will choose here in this room on an untimely basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u552	I'm putting to the vote 569 amendments. [[21:11:46]] For the 18th. The amendment is not accepted. Eugene Marmazov, insisting on correction? No, it's not. Let's move on. Is Sergei Kiwalov not insisting on the amendment? No, it's not. 574th. Shustik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u553	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I ask that by my amendment, I propose to correct the obvious error contained in article 78. Because we are offered to re-vote for an unsupported judge in the hall endlessly, until the adoption, apparently, or to disgust. I propose re-voting no more than once, in fact, as it is now enshrined in the law in force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u554	I'm putting to the vote 574 amendments. [[21:12:54]] For the 15th. No correction supported. So let's move on. Please, Verni Dubov, microphone 575 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u555	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to such a fact, with my colleague Fesenek Leonid among another judge with 30 years of experience, the Supreme Council we don't think can rape itself indefinitely. See paragraph 6 of article 78, “in case of failure to obtain a candidate for election by a judge, the number of votes defined in part four shall be re-elected. I don't know, I don't know. We suggest that we exclude this part of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u556	It should be understood in such a way that we vote until the vote is put to the vote. I'm putting to the vote 675 of the amendment. She was actually in touch with Helen Shustik's amendment. Please. [[21:14:16]] For-26 Correction not supported. Yes. Carmazine, 594. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u557	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remind you that for the time being, the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, on which I have asked you, will give me the floor to discuss these shameful amendments and, in fact, the destruction of the Constitution. I remind you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhajlovich, that paragraph 27 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the “election of judges on an uninterrupted basis”. [[Article 85 of the Constitution]] Article 89 of the Constitution states that the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are preparing and reviewing questions referred to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. the issue of the election of judges are prepared by committees on an untimely basis. This is a very simple interpretation of this Constitution. Why are we attacking her? I'm talking to Chechtov, the puppeteers who give you the commands on the phone: get excited, be human, or you'll be in trouble! That's Chewchenk's words, not mine. Thus, article 594. The judge may be drawn to disciplinary responsibility only for the reasons provided here. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u558	I bet on the vote of amendment 594. [[21:16:07]] For -14 No correction supported. 603th. Ivan Verni Dubov. Are you insisting on her or not? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u559	As we consider the matter, we see from the judges that we do not go to work one day, the other day. When a simple employee is fired for not being at work for four hours. Therefore, I feel that even if there is a violation of the work arrangement, it is also necessary to involve a judge in disciplinary responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u560	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 603 by John Vernidubov. [[21:17:05]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Sergei Vlasenko, 625 amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u561	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I believe that in this situation it is necessary to leave the ordinary procedure for the prosecution of such decisions rather than to refer them to a particular court in a particular procedure. That is why I suggested that the words “the Supreme Administrative Court” should be changed to “an administrative court whose territorial jurisdiction extends to the city of Kiev”. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u562	Dear colleagues! 625 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[21:18:54]] For the four of us. No correction supported. Dear colleagues! That's the situation. Let's talk about it. Two factions require a break or an opportunity to make a statement in order to accelerate the process. Come on, who's gonna make the application? Yuri Carmazin, please. Three minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u563	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I need five minutes. I've got a lot of changes. Or I'll do the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u564	Let's do it this way. Five minutes to make sure there's no further amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u565	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. On behalf of the two factions, the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", we want to make such a statement. Dear National Deputies! For example, I have 157 amendments here that justify the wrongness of this position that is now being occupied. I would like to say that everything that is happening in this room right now is a brutal abuse of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is a brutal abuse of the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provided for in article 85 of the Constitution, to have judges elected on an untimely basis. It is an encroachment on the rights of Ukrainian national MPs, who represent the people of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in order to prepare and pre-examine issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to tell you that during the work of the Justice Committee, until the committee was practically right when it recommended or did not recommend a judge on an untimely basis. As it was not difficult, we considered those brutal violations of the law and saw that violations were allowed by the Superior Council of Justice, violations were allowed by both the qualified commissions and all other bodies. As a result, it is totally unconstitutional to deprive the Supreme Council of Ukraine of its constitutional powers without changing the Constitution. The other one. We also call your attention to the fact that Ukrainian citizens, the Legal Authority, in its conclusions, clearly denies the possibility of adopting this law. They've been reading them for a long time, these conclusions need to be read for three hours, they're on 27 pages, nobody's read them, nobody's gonna read them. This bill relies on the Supreme Council of Justice to authorize the appointment of judges to the administration in contravention of the Constitution. This bill destroys the Supreme Court and its rule in the judiciary as the highest judicial authority in the judiciary as the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction. This bill empowers the President of Ukraine to dispose of the courts, which does not correspond to article 106, paragraph 23. This bill destroys the system of military courts, obviously understanding and desiring that we have no military at all. The bill envisions the creation of a higher specialized court in Ukraine to deal with civil and criminal matters, which is referred to civil and criminal matters in a cassation order that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and to common sense. This bill is a violation of articles 124 and 125 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the highest judicial body of Ukraine in the system of courts of general jurisdiction is the Supreme Court of Ukraine, destroyed by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, brought it into the role of statistician. This violates not only the Constitution of Ukraine but also violates a dozen decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This will lead to a significant increase in citizens’ appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. This will also result in a narrowing of citizens’ rights to judicial protection, which is unacceptable under article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three. This bill violates completely all the normal norms that the Ukrainian Constitution provides for an appeal and a cassational complaint. This bill allows for the preservation of the administration of the judicial system and the suspension of each judge. So I think that our faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" thinks that such a bill should be brought before the Constitutional Court. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, and I am addressing his First Deputy and Vice-Minister of Mikola Tomenka: Honorable, do not be gravers of the Constitution. Remember that this Constitution provides for the democratic conquests of that nation that we today have been entrusted by the people of Ukraine to carry out. So I'm not talking about the senselessness of extermination and the courts and other things, we don't think it's necessary to spend the people's money to carry on this farce that was being organized today by the bank puppeteers. We don't think it's possible and we warn.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u566	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u567	We warn you that you're ruining the Constitution, you're ruining your mother, because the Constitution needs to be treated like your mother. And remember that violations of the Constitution are boomerang and are often more severe for those who violate it. I want to conclude my words with the words “Glory to Ukraine! A hero of fame!" And I think we have fought and fought, and I urge you to come. We leave this disgraceful session, which will enter the history of the country as a disgrace, a disgrace to all of it! Thank you for understanding! You've been turned into a “buttonedahs”! You are not allowed to vote for your own amendments! And what Verni Dubov just said, the good corrections you made, you can see that they don't support them! Get out of this coalition before the people lift it to the villa! Praise the people of Ukraine! Heroic glory! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u568	Dear colleagues, you and I have stopped at 625 corrections. Do you insist? Or after the performance. 626th. You're an ass. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u569	Thank you. People's Authority. The point in this amendment is that the decision of the Higher Qualifications Commission may be challenged not only by the judge but also by the person who complained about it. I think that a lot of the people's deputies who were there have called on a qualified commission to deal with the wrong actions and decisions that the judges have made, and they have faced a situation that would be good to draw the attention of a qualified commission to the fact that such decisions are still being made. And in principle, it's about both 626th and 628th amendment, and if it's counted in the hall, it's going to be counted, not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u570	I'm betting, your honor, on the vote of Amendment 626 of the Ass, and this is definitely going to apply to 628 amendments. I'd like to make a statement. [[21:28:06]] For-16 Not supported. 629th? Vlasenko. And she's accounted for. Yeah, 631st? Hairy, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u571	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. 631 amendments are designed to address the differences that are within the law itself. Since the amendments made to article 20 and article 96 of the bill essentially make no sense in the report of the Council of Judges and the Council of Justice on the establishment of administrative posts in the courts. That is why I am asking for the sentence that “it immediately reports to the appropriate Council of Judges, the High Council of Justice on the establishment of a vacant seat of the head of the court and the deputy head of the court” to exclude from paragraph 2 of the first part of article 90 of the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u572	631 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[21:29:22]] For the four of us. Not supported. 635 amendments, Filipenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u573	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! The point is that the 635 amendment, which is considered by the committee, is in fact like the 502 and 503 amendments involved in some conflict with other laws. So my colleagues and I ask that we put her to the vote so that the Supreme Council can be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u574	635 amendments apply to the vote for support. I'd like to make up my mind. [[21:30:04]] For 1 Not supported. Vlasenko, 636th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u575	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. As for the 636 revisions. It is directly related to the status of the Supreme Council and to the powers of the Supreme Council to elect judges on an uninterrupted basis. Like article 90 of the bill, going back to that, it means that the Supreme Council is turning into a technical body to sanctify the decisions of the High Qualifying Commission. And then let's get some courage, get 300 votes, and we'll decide that the judges are not appointed to the Supreme Council without time, not the Supreme Council as an organ, but the High Qualifying Commission. Let them be responsible, let them be responsible. Not that they make or don't make recommendations, they make their own decisions. And the Supreme Council turns into a technical organ. Therefore, to my profound conviction, the Higher Qualifications Committee cannot refuse to make recommendations to candidates. These recommendations may be negative. That is, if a higher-skilled commission concludes that a person is not worthy to be elected a judge on an untimely basis, but such a negative recommendation should be referred to the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council should itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u576	Thank you. There are 636 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[21:31:37]] For two. Not supported. Dear colleagues, next I see that we can go as follows. Who among the national deputies whose amendments have been made but not counted insist that we consider them? Because we've basically got a few amendments to Vlasenek and Prokopchuk. The digger doesn't insist. Prokopchuk's microphone, please. And, Sergey Vlasenko, look at your adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u577	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. It has become clear that today there is a coup d'état in the judiciary, in the judicial system in general, in Ukraine, that after today's entrenchment of this anti-constitutional, anti-constitutional law, there will be no justice, but there will be a perjury, and Ukraine will not be a legal state, as guaranteed by the Constitution, but in general a form that is not fashionable even appealed or defined. So given all of this, I don't want to be involved in this farce, at least there are more than 100 amendments. If you're breaking through your knee, break it, but no one's gonna need you tomorrow. And those courts that are going to do the perjury, I think they're going to do the same for those who are pressing the buttons today and voting for this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u578	Thank you. In Yuri Karmazin, followers appeared. Now for Sergei Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u579	Dear colleagues! Sergey Vlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, is the last person left. Well, really, there is absolutely no point in continuing the so-called discussion of amendments. Similarly, committee meetings were held when the amendments were, in effect, not discussed, but printed. Well, I think it's really the consequences of adopting this law. Dear colleagues, such a reply, and we will consider all the amendments separately. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u580	I beg of you, Your Honor, let us be calm in the name of the cause.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u581	So I don't think there's really any point in discussing them. Indeed, there is a will to adopt amendments, to adopt the bill in the way it is. Well, I guess the state has to go through with it. Convinced of the adoption of this law, it was said that this is the end of judicial reform, no, it's only the beginning, because we're going to review these bills once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u582	Thank you. And please, I'm addressing you and the room, as amended by 1069, is partially accounted for. Colleagues insist, as always they have the right to insist that the opinion of the committee be confirmed. So please, I'm betting on the vote. Yes, please, it's Vlasenka's microphone. 1069, look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u583	I'll find her with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u584	Yeah, Vlasenka's microphone. We'll figure it out now. This is page 388. Almost at the end of the first book.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u585	You know, this amendment was triggered by the following. In fact, materials are handed over from court to court in a variety of ways and ways, and there may actually be a situation where materials are brought to court when certain registration agencies in court are no longer working. That is why I asked to exclude from the relevant article of the Code of Administrative Justice the fact that the application is registered on the day of its arrival in the order set out in part three of article 15.1. That is, it is not uncommon when statements are registered the next day from the very morning and there are no problems. In order not to create any processional coalitions and opportunities for manipulation there, it is likely to be necessary to leave. You have to take this amendment into account and that's all. It's a completely technical amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u586	Thank you. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal for partial amendment 10 69, i.e. 1069 Vlasenka. I'd like to make a statement. [[21:36:38]] For two. So there's an editorial that's been adopted in the first reading. Who else insists on national MPs? Beams, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u587	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Alexander Volodymyrovich! I'd like to pay attention to everyone. 790 amendment, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u588	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u589	790s, please. It's up to 130 articles: “The work of the judge. ” There are judges, there are arbitrators, there are members of the High Qualifying Commission and the High Council of Justice. But there are no former prosecutors, investigators, or research agencies. Well, if there's an explanation, I'd like to hear in detail where, in which article to see. Is this part of the job, or is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u590	Dear colleagues, the 790 Behwa's amendment has been rejected. What's the point? In order to include work in the positions of prosecutors and investigators on the condition that all of the persons listed are employed as judges for at least 10 years. That is, if he were to serve as a judge and had an internship of at least 10 years, he would have had the experience of a prosecutor or an investigator. What's the committee's opinion? Please, the Novak microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u591	It's not counted, it's done consciously. However, those judges who have already taken this into account are preserved by them. And the examination of the internship begins only after the adoption of this law. That is, the judges who have already taken this internship into account have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u592	Yes, please, Philippe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u593	Thank you. The point is that this is Amendment 17.17, which really indicates that all the judges who, at the time of taking effect of this law are working. chosen or appointed by judges, for which their internships are calculated, out of those conditions that were provided for in the law that was in force today. Therefore, all judges will be granted the right to resign in accordance with the legislation that was in force at the time of the adoption of this law. In fact, we reserve for all judges the right to resign and calculate the length of their work, resulting from the current legislative day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u594	I'm voting on Bevza's 190th amendment. It's rejected. I'd like to make a statement. Sorry, take it off, take it off. And one more point we have is that before the 782nd amendment introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, it's taken into account. But Lukashuk’s colleague has a point. Lukashuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u595	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to confirm the room of amendment 782-hu, which says that the salary provided for by law, a judge of a local court of 15 minimum wages, is broken in stages, and the judge gets a full salary in only 15 years. So I ask the room not to support this amendment, but to leave it in the first reading. Thank you. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u596	Dear colleagues, be careful. I'm voting on the 782 amendment, which is counted. This is an amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers, which is counted by the Committee. My colleague Lukashuk requires confirmation of this amendment. I ask you to vote. [[21:40:53]] For 237 Question solved. It's left. All the adjustments that have been made have been resolved. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u597	Dear colleagues, I now ask the reporter, Novik's Julia Volodymyrna, if there is any clarification before the vote, please. You can go to the rostrum to set up a solemn moment. Dear colleagues, if possible, there are moments of technicality so that we don't go back to the details.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u598	We took into account many of the amendments that were not taken into account by the committees and vice versa. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary, at the time of adoption of the draft preparation, to give the relevant services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a numbering of articles and paragraphs in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. And give them a mandate to make the necessary legal and regulatory regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u599	Dear colleagues, you're taking the job, aren't you? Now, if you'll have your attention. I will now put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading of the draft law and in general as a law removing positions where amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine are being made, taking due account of this in final technical and legal preparation for the signing of the law. Once again, with the deletion of positions (all agreed) that relate to the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules with the appropriate processing in preparation for. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? And the moment of taking effect since the publication of it. Dear colleagues, it can't be from the moment of publication unless the President signs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m1.u600	What if the President makes a commitment? Well, respectable colleagues, from the moment of publication. So once again, the law takes effect, we've fixed it since its official publication. The other one. We are removing the positions relating to the amendment of the Rules and entrusting the Chief Legal Authority with the technical and legal drafting of the Bill in view of the fact that we have either supported or not supported a number of amendments and that we have removed the novels relating to the amendment of the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do you understand the offer? With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as the bill of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, taking into account the additions that have been made by the rapporteur and myself as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6450]] Please vote. [[21:44:16]] For 260 The law is passed. [[Applause]] One minute, dear fellows. One minute, we need to put into order a series of bills that the President of Ukraine is asking us to consider as urgent. May I have your attention, please? The factions, please. Give me the results of the factions. Region Party – 170, Block Timoshenko – 24, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 16, communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 19, non-fractional – 4. And now, dear colleagues, I thank the reporter, thank you to Julia Volodymyrovy Novičky for working courageously with us and all the people's deputies, especially those who made many amendments and reasoned on them during our work at 16 hours. [[Applause]] Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? The Minister of Justice, separately, gives strong thanks. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is a bill from the President of Ukraine for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 6659]] Please vote. [[21:45:57]] For 257 Decision taken. I now put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on the State Budget for 2010 and on the mandatory State Pension Insurance. [[Registration number 6673]] It's a government bill for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. This includes allocating funds for the October 31st election. Emphasis, including. [[21:46:40]] For 257 Decision taken. Finally, honourable colleagues are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on State Procurement and Organization, and for the final part of the European Championship in 2012 from football in Ukraine. Author of the national deputy of Ephraim. [[Registration number 6652]] Please vote. [[21:47:25]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask the committees to consider these bills without delay so that we can make decisions about them before the conclusion of this session. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you all for your work. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to Thursday.
