ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:18]] Cards were registered in the 379 people’s deputies’ session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vaszczuk Katherina Timothy. [[Applause]] Denkovich Ivan Vasilovich and Rijuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] I ask for attention when I was 60 years old. Let's welcome our colleagues and wish us success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on January 19, 2010. 22 questions of the agenda have been considered. The result was that two laws and six decrees were adopted, eight bills were adopted on a basis, three bills and three draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, the veto of the President of Ukraine was overtaken by the law concerning the moratorium on the land market until 2012. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday, 30 minutes are allocated to the national MPs to make statements, messages, and proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the name of the national MPs on the information board. People's Deputy Fesenko faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u2	I'd like you to pass it on to Vadim's Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u3	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, will be followed by Jaroslav Suhi. The word is given by Vadim Koleschenko, followed by Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, yesterday, the last few days of the entire world community, all Ukrainians are outraged by the fact that Saakashvili, the President of Georgia, and Prime Minister Timoshenko, who have agreed to intervene in the electoral process in general in the form of Georgian observers. Such events should be the subject of a review of the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office and we should evaluate the case. It is unacceptable for a foreign State to intervene in our electoral campaign. And the most offensive, the most unpleasant, is that this information has become known, that the perpetrators of its dissemination have not been punished; and the second, that none of the participants in this telephone conversation have stated that it has nothing to do with it. This suggests that they are directly relevant to the process, that they are directly involved in the process, and that they have conducted these negotiations. Therefore, what we are concerned about today is the problem that exists. We must give this a clear answer today. [[(Audience recording from cassette):]] [["WOMEN'S VOICE. Hi, we're working very well. But the only problem we have is that they didn't register yesterday, you know, right?]] [[MAN’S VOICE: Yeah, yeah, I'm talking. That's why I'm calling, actually, that means Givi's in there, maybe someone of yours will get in touch with him, too.]] [[A WOMAN’S VOICE: You have to. I told Turkinov about it so he could meet right away. I'm in the regions, I'm in elections, actually. But tomorrow I'll be in Kiev and I'll meet him too. And I want to thank you for even sending such a team to Ukraine.]] [[MAN’S VOICE: No, we're actually sending the most competent and capable people.]] [[A WOMAN’S VOICE: Yeah, I know that, and I'm very grateful for that. But we will now fight for tomorrow's law to make it clear that international observers are simply issued with certificates and all. And that they have an obligation to issue without a vote.]] [[MAN’S VOICE: In any case, we are very open, very flexible and very willing to help Ukraine in any way, so.]] [[A WOMAN’S VOICE: Thank you. Thank you so much, we need this help because.]] [[MAN’S VOICE: (do not hear)]] [[A WOMAN’S VOICE: On the contrary, I am very happy to hear from you and very grateful for your help. And I think we need to work very hard together to keep this group from missing. It's too hard.]] [[MAN’S VOICE: It's gonna be okay.]] [[A WOMAN’S VOICE: Thank you so much. I give you a firm embrace, and I am very grateful to you.”]] [[Listening to tape entry finished]] These are essentially respectable colleagues, a conversation called treason, and actions aimed at changing government power. I demand that the BSP immediately check and punish the perpetrators who removed this conversation from the air and at the same time consider the issue of State treason, spying in favour of a foreign State, actions by Timoshenko aimed at destabilizing the situation in the country. It's a disgrace to such people! They are a disgrace to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u5	Jaroslav Suhi is referring to Alexander Stoyan, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Irina Gorin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u6	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the results of the vote were officially known, and our leader, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, gained more than 10 percent of Timoshenko. Let me, on behalf of our political power, thank all the citizens of Ukraine for the right choice. But you know the honourable ones who voted, who listened to something Timoshenko now claims that he will not allow our leader to swear on the Bible. I want to ask who gave her the right to make that statement. The people make their own choices and decide who to let go of power and who not to let go. He made that choice in the first round. And the fact that people appreciated Timoshenko and Yushchenko, their free power, only 30 percent voted together, that's less than Janukovich, that says their politics. And I wonder why Timoshenko identifies himself with the power of good and everyone else with the power of evil. And she says that she and her team are good. If that's good, what team are the Lozinski killers in, if that's good, what team are the paedophiles in, if that's good, then what's bad? And what I'm trying to say is that it's our team that brings out the good in itself and brings out the good in itself. On our team, in our political power, almost a dozen heroes of Ukraine. These are business leaders who are still keeping the economy blue today. In our political power, academics, doctors of science, professionals. And I think it was people who appreciated that political power. People also appreciated the social policy that Timoshenko conducted. Remember, we voted for the minimum pension to be 573 bracelets, and they made 572 and 40 copies, not to add 60 extra copies. But this month's minimum pension should be 695 dollars. And I want to ask why does this government commit crimes against its people without paying a full minimum pension of 695 dollars? Why does this government not consider raising the minimum wage? Today, the poverty line is 792 bracelets. One out of four people are out of poverty, and the working man gets 744 bracelets. All of this will be done when we come to power! [[B in m in s a l in]] We recall that our leader claimed that the minimum pension would be 1,200 dollars. We're going to raise the salary, we're going to make it 575 dollars to the mother and the baby, not 130 dollars, as Timoshenko's government does. I think the second round will show that Ukrainian citizens will unite around our political power of the Party of Regions. People will unite around effective manager Yanukovic. Around the team that showed how she was able to work in 2004, 2006. And people understand what our political power will do to make pensions so that children can learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u7	Irina Gorin, faction of the Party of the Regions. Jaroslav Kedzier will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, liars, deceits and manipulations. A lie, a lie, and a manipulation is the true face of your power. This is the true face of your Prime Minister, Timoshenko, who, by lying, lying, cheating and manipulating her for two years, beats the crap out of her Ukrainian entrepreneurship, confidently believing that she would get away with it. But on January 17th, she had already received a black mark of her work, and life placed everything in place and lies, lies, and manipulation would no longer take place in Ukrainian society and in Ukrainian business. A new year has begun and new battles have begun. Over the course of two years, the Government's work, all the declarations that taxes are falling, that checks are declining, that business is being opened by a green street was a lie, a lie and a manipulation. We have seen a large number of Cabinet decrees and laws that have made business life worse, and only entrepreneurs, together with the opposition, have defended their rights and laws and regulations. I will name only three of the biggest problems that hinder, continue to prevent me from living with this Government and Prime Minister Timoshenko. First. VAT. Twenty billion fines of unreturned money to entrepreneurs are their working assets, which they are unable to spend on neither production nor wages, normally their activities and only two types of enterprises can return VAT, those close to your authority and those who agree with the discount 50 per cent, 30 of which go to election, believe Timoshenko, and 20 corrupt officials. Second. The fees, which look like taxes, which are already being collected in the middle of 2010 accounted for 80 per cent of enterprises in the budget. Six months have already been paid for this year. And it is also true that the checks that choose the business pay endlessly for the Eurovision children's children that pay for other activities are being paid, business is just suffocating. It's a payday. On February 7th, you get your second black mark and you get what you deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u9	Jaroslav Kenzior. The right to speak is given to Jaroslav Kendzior Ivan Stojko, who has been here for six minutes. The next one will be Peaceable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u10	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, there has been a first round of presidential elections and today we can bring up the first, yet true, results of this election. Without exaggerating the fact that without the tank mottos, without the bombing of Moscow’s Moscow squadrons, the Kremlin received what they wanted very much and very much. And they wanted to see in the second round of presidential elections two dear friends of the Kremlin: Yanukovich and Timoshenko. Today, when preparing for the second tour, the Ukrainian people have a truly luxurious choice. One is the one who sat twice. The second was one that had not sat twice, but had to sit. But given the billions that are. which she owned, which enabled her to redeem herself from both the first Moscow term of retaliation and the Ukrainian term of retaliation. When we analyze what happened in Ukraine. Because Victor Yushchenko, the current president, offered the Ukrainian people values that would undoubtedly ensure further development, development and approval of the Ukrainian nation. We realize that, unfortunately, it won't happen for the next 5, 10 or 15 years, because we know what the values of both one finalist and the second finalist of the presidential race are. I'm convinced that, well, the position of one of Victor Yanukovic's candidates doesn't have to be talked about, it's a person who's direct, honest, and direct to Moscow. But the second candidate is more dangerous that he's in the same position, as it were, with his shirt embroidered and patriotic demagogies. But all of us understand that for a covert, non-closed, non-exposure criminal case in Moscow, but a covert criminal case in Moscow, for which the Moscow generals have already served their term, will certainly have to be paid for by Yulia Timoshenko. We realize that today's $10 billion, which the Moscow leadership is not yet putting out this account, will also have to work it out. As promised, we can only guess. But don't make me loud, that you, the honourable electorate first, because to one great faction, the second to turn is futile, because they conduct their candidates so much as to the final. Those who watched last Sunday, the day of the election, after 20 hours of air naICTV, could not, who were comforted by the frank celebration of the Russian Duma Markova, who literally said that Galician ideology in the performance of Yushchenkalawn, the festive nationalism of President Yushchenk was finished, would end the celebration of the canopy victories in the end. And we don't care who this couple becomes president of today. Dear colleagues, do you need to add something to the characteristics of the Moscow leadership regarding the characteristics of the two candidates? And it was not by chance that President Medvedev had ordered the Ambassador of Moscow in Ukraine to begin his duties yesterday. But I'm convinced that the sobriety will finally show up in a few months or so, because unfortunately, our constituency is going through the ventricle. And when in a treasury account a billion dollars, when taxes were collected in the first quarter, including when Moscow paid for the transport of gas by the first quarter inclusive, the budget would be filled with nothing, and these codes would start with all these pension problems, wages, then finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u11	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] National MP. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to calm down and stop whistling. MP Mirny's handing over the right to speak to College Kolesnick, a faction of the regions. Prepare Viacheslav Kirilenko [[B in m in s a l in]] Who else? The chariot wasn't here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where? None. Well, I'm telling you, it's not. There's Steshenko. I read: Mirni, Kirilenko, Evening, Grigorovich, Smituh, Gerasimczuk, Stishenko, [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll find out. Dear colleagues! The point is that Vadimu Koleschenko was handed over by his colleague, and he was also written down, and he was automatically removed. So now we're restoring justice. Vadim Koleschenko — three minutes and the National MP Mirzny gives him a total of six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u12	The truth is, we must fight for the truth. Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! I am of course aware of this, and I do not have deep sympathy for colleague Kenzoru of the NSO and Self-Defense, but today he has recognized throughout the country that Timoshenko is not a representative of democratic forces, that Timoshenko is a disgrace to the democratic forces of our State. And he was right in those conclusions that he said the whole country would still have to pay for those debts that Timoshenko had made in connection with those corruption links that had been recorded by law enforcement agencies. But against this background, I am most certainly outraged by the actions of another representative of the NSO-NS and the Self-Defense, Mr Lucenko, Minister of Interior and External Disguise. This is the main person who, in two months, has done everything in his power to disrupt the electoral process, has systematically and methodically intervened in the electoral campaign. I am surprised that we have not yet given a well-deserved assessment of this, with the permission to say, to the representative of the Ministry of the Interior. By carrying out the political orders and criminal orders of its minister of lawlessness, the Ukrainian militia was unlawfully involved in the electoral campaign. May I remind you that the District Court has ruled that Mr. Lucenko is illegally engaged in an electoral campaign, unlawfully agitating for Timoshenko, this has been confirmed by the courts. Someone punished Mr. Lucenk for a direct violation of the law in force? While it has been said that he as an official has no right at any time to engage in agitation: during working and non-working hours. This time. Second. The courts recognized the unlawful involvement of police officers in organizing the electoral process, when WIA officials and officials requested that participants in the electoral process explain their willingness to vote outside the polling station, because all of this was determined solely in an official inquiry or pre-trial investigation. And that was done. Again, no one has responded to these court decisions. During the elections, there was an unprecedented phenomenon: when the District Prosecutor's Offices made more than 20 submissions on the illegal actions of GAI workers, which prohibited people from being transported to polling stations under these harsh climatic conditions. Do you have any idea what hatred you have for your people? These rascals did not allow the elderly living in mountains, villages without light, electoral stations, roadblocks, passports and driving permits. And this is in our so-called democratic country. And what happens when police officers attacked the family of a member of the district electoral commission in the 56th territorial constituency of the 74th District on 16 January, requiring some explanation, some evidence, and then brought them to the militia and kept them in the police force until nightfall, asking them to testify to their advantage! What is required to print and explain or report on the work of the district electoral commission? Unfortunately, it's happening in our eyes with you, and it's a terrible thing that we're trying to see today. That is why I believe that these facts of illegal interference in the electoral process show that the current corrupt authority, by giving criminal orders using the law enforcement resource, has tried to influence the election results, crush the will of the people, disrupt the electoral process. I address people in pursuits, honest workers in the interior, generals, officers, sergeants: do not follow the criminal orders of the interim minister in the life of the minister of lawlessness Lucenka; he will be punished for this, but you have the right to refuse to obey criminal orders, because in just a few days each of you will be prosecuted for breaking the law for attempting to intervene in the electoral process. Think, your families are waiting for you, your mothers, your wives are waiting for you, your children are waiting for you. Do not break the law, do not support the minister of lawlessness and the slave. In connection with these unlawful, illegal actions of the Minister of the Interior, I have requested, on behalf of the Party of the Regions, that Prime Minister Timoshenko be dismissed from his post in connection with massive, deliberate violations of Ukrainian law, human rights and the attempt to disrupt the elections. In the event of failure to take action on a parliamentary statement, it is Yulia Timoshenko, under Ukrainian law, who is personally responsible for the use of violence by the police against the Ukrainian people, which is a criminal offence. Dear colleagues, dear friends, citizens of Ukraine, we are at a very responsible time, we must do everything in our country to unite Ukraine to be a country of democracy, a country where human rights prevail, where laws are the same for all, and for the Prime Minister, and for the Minister of the Interior, and for a mere citizen. And only Victor Fedorovich Janukovic can guarantee that. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u13	Viacheslav Kirilenko is invited to the presentation. Lilia Grigorovitch also gives him the right to speak, so six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u14	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Respectful colleagues, honourable voters, certainly did not raise special surprises by the electoral campaign that is currently taking place in Ukraine. It is expected even in the sense that candidates do not talk about principles, do not talk about programs and platforms, but talk about themselves. Timoshenko criticises Yanukovic, Janukovic – Timoshenko, but unfortunately, both of these candidates, as they are most trained in watering each other with political dirt. I think that's not what all Ukrainians need, and that's not what these people need. That were supported on the first tour by Yanukovich and Timoshenko. Apparently, they need a calm, constructive discussion on Ukraine’s future. This is the kind of talk that candidates avoid. Sorry, but for the group “For Ukraine!” exercise in populism, which is demonstrated by Janukovic, and Timoshenko means nothing. Because the whole pre-election concept of Yanukovich is that we're going to give you a higher pension, and the whole pre-election concept of Timoshenko is that we're going to give you the same higher pension only when I win and you vote for me. At the same time, neither the candidate nor the candidate answer that question, where the money will be raised to the budgeters, where the grants from the Ukrainian Pension Fund will be received, and where the money will be from in the country in general next year. None of the candidates will answer the key questions whether the country will eventually start with key economic reforms. That's what we're most concerned about, because we're going to continue to see candidates who are on the second tour spilling dirt on each other, and I don't think anybody's interested, either in the country or outside of it. Therefore, we look forward to a thorough answer to the very complex questions. First, they see candidates, and then they see, and when they see them, and when they start, tax reform -- one, budget reform -- two, medical reform -- three. Will they be able to start a conversation about real retirement and, as a result, social reform in the country, or will candidates at all be able to start a real liberal policy that will unlock opportunities for small and medium-sized businesses, not just for the large capital that is represented here in parliament, and, by the way, supports both candidates who have now gone on the second round. These are the answers, unfortunately, we do not hear. Just like they didn't understand the position of the two candidates in the second round, and how would they change the country, how would they refresh the political environment? Will the so - called political elite at all change? That is, when we vote on the Elections Act, it's just not as cumbersome as it is now, where one chief and another chief appoint their own deputies and then they push buttons for five years, not always, unfortunately, thinking about what we're all doing here. Or is there any point now, between the first and the second rounds, in fulfilling the promises of the two candidates to vote on new election laws, which, by the way, the Group “For Ukraine!” has long submitted, and which are completely ready for consideration, and have received approved expert evaluations. We are now proposing, without waiting, that once there will be a new authority, to vote on the Elections Act to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a mixed system: half of them are open lists, half of them are districts. And the Law on Elections to Local Councils, on a majority basis: Districts. And let all MPs report not to party voters, but to the electorate. A deputy long ago and central and local needs to be returned to the people. What should be the delay? What are we waiting for? Each candidate spoke about this during the election campaign. People applaud it. For some reason, however, these questions are not brought to the fore. So I suggest that even if those candidates who have already come from the electoral distance now put these issues in order of the day, and before the second round, we vote for changes to the electoral system. I think it'll be fair, and that's what voters expect. And last but not least, it's very important to us. We'll stand as we did before, we'll do it now, and we'll always do it, on the watch of the Ukrainian case. This is a fundamental question for us, which will be a lacquer paper for us in assessing the activity and position of all candidates. Sorry, we don't care which candidate Putin supports, which candidate is supported by Medvedev. They're the same to us. Regrettably, the current Kremlin policy does not want the good of Ukraine. So this kind of applause in Moscow is the second round that's run by their candidates completely. But no matter what, one candidate promised to give up the Ukrainian gas transport system, and the other candidate promised to introduce a second national language. We're not going to let the first or the second one do the same. And in that sense, I repeat, in this sense, these candidates are the same for us. If they openly or secretly betray Ukrainian interests, they will be defeated. If not now, tomorrow, if not tomorrow, will be the day after tomorrow, for the Ukrainian people have long been waiting for new politicians who are able to systematically defend national interests, not just to engage in political crackdown. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u15	People's Party, faction of the Party of the Regions, last performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u16	Dear President! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable Ukrainian people! Today, there may be another social explosion because today in society we have been intimidated by an influenza epidemic, a mass influenza epidemic. Where is he? Every year, after an analysis of the flu epidemic, we have 3.5 thousand people dying, and today we have to say and shout that there is an epidemic of tuberculosis. In Ukraine today, the mortality of more than 14.5,000 citizens, both the Government and the President and the Supreme Council need to speak about it today, and the President's election needs to focus on this and the current work. The existing mechanisms and management of the health system will ultimately lead to its complete collapse, which has started since 2006. A strategy for the development of Ukraine's health system should be adopted immediately, otherwise it would be a tragedy throughout Europe and the CIS countries. Today we have adopted another programme to finance oncological morbidity. Where's the funding? This is the gravest problem facing the State and the Government, the Supreme Council and the President-in-Office must be aware of this problem. If we do not pay attention to these questions, we will lose much. And we, as the Party of the Regions, need to adopt health reform issues immediately. Take note of the social development of our people. Where's the pension raise? Today, as the election campaign for the presidency of the country takes place, we travel around the districts, the people complain about pensions are missing, the lack of medicines, the lack of food in hospitals, the lack of school meals, the need to pay serious attention. We immediately demand that we begin to consider reforming the health organization, changing article 49, and renting part of the main funds of the Ministry of Health. Once again, the distinguished people's deputies, we need to pay special attention to the development of our country and health institutions, otherwise there will be trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u17	Dear National MPs, the performance was completed, the Kendzior replication was called at the time of the performance of the national deputy Kolesnichenko. Please, no last names.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u18	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” I want to tell all of the Ukrainianophobics and all the underages, first of all, of the two biggest factions, and especially I'm looking here at an australopathic who's the most scavengers in the hall, about what your celebrations today would be, as it were, victorious, I know that Ukraine will not fail. Ukraine has experienced a number of difficult times, difficult situations, and emerging from them. As I said in my speech, the vision will come very soon, and then I'd like to hear the scavengers and, first of all, this australopitec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u19	Dear national MPs, statements by national MPs, reports are complete. With regard to the proposals made by the national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate address. Regarding the speech of the National Deputy Kolesnichko, who spoke on behalf of the observers, I must say that after yesterday's speech by the National Deputy Sevkovic, requests were sent to the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. With regard to other suggestions, please prepare appropriate assignments. Honourable national MPs, two factions, the BUT faction and our People's Self-Defense demanding a recess, and they agree not to take a break, but to make a statement. Is there no objection? Will Vladimir Bondarenko be performing? Vladimir Bondarenko has the right to speak for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u20	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I'm making a statement from two factions who applied for a break. Dear friends! Dear radios, TV sets and audiences! We see an unprecedented farce today when the real things of one faction or another are said to be hidden. But when statements come from the Janukovich block faction -- and this is actually the block today -- they merge in words and actually in action. You saw a friendly vote yesterday by representatives of the Party of Regions and representatives who are now either part of the "One Center" or part of "Our Ukraine" that actually betrayed Ukraine. [[They can be understood.]] Today they work with one hand. And this one hand feels. When a former Chegebist informant is in. The pseudo-sportsman starts to praise the representative of the Odystic, I would say, the representative of another faction is getting strange, and why there are no allegations of denial or that Georgian observers could not get to Ukraine. Why do you not stand by as we once stood up for events in Georgia that could lead to a loss of independence? Why didn't you say anything? Why don't you just shut up? And what's the conversation, and who's listening to the Prime Minister in Ukraine? Why do you ask, who's listening to the Prime Minister? So both Teresa and the athlete continue to work for the KGB, apparently the KGB lives in our society. I'd like to point out that they're singing in one voice today, and they're putting a party of regions in power because they're already promised positions, they're already seeing themselves as district leaders in Western Ukraine and they're asking questions, they're pushing people out there, they're talking about some hand in Moscow. We will see how this hand happens when these people together today, acting not in favour of Ukraine, will receive these positions if God does not give what comes to power of the President that they all desire together. So I would like to point out that there is a lot of talk here today just so that people in Western Ukraine don't go to the polls. The idea is that someone there is a representative of Moscow. No! No! Julia Timoshenko will be the President of Ukraine, the patriotic President of Ukraine, behind whom there is no dirty chauffeur that you are covering together today, and who today courageously endures today the pressures and on the left, and on the right from the so-called "crazed friends" you have here, to those enemies that were natural. In this situation, some want to return to their positions in Western areas and become so - called governors again to cut down the forest that has been cut off from you to steal the resources. I say again, I'm not surprised at one half, but I'm surprised today how the future of Ukraine is being destroyed today by the hands of those who haven't long since shouted that he was a patriot, beating himself in the chest and bragging. So let's think and understand what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have to consider ratification issues. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges at the Ukrainian-Moldov State border is under review. Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Kravczuk Petrov Kostinović, co - reporter Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, reports. I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, where we have no objection to working quickly on any ratifications or other ratifications. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u22	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, you have been given a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges on the Ukrainian-Moldov state border. Submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Ukraine’s draft law is designed to carry out internal procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u23	Louder, if you please, to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u24	Well, what am I gonna do? The draft Law of Ukraine is designed to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the agreement. Signed on 31/07.2006 in Chisinau. According to the legislation of the Republic of Moldova, there is no need for ratification by the Supreme Council. At the same time, as early as 2006, a decision was taken by the Government of the Republic of Moldova to ratify the agreement. I would like to point out that the draft agreement has been processed, worked for more than 9 years, and that the agreement sets out detailed basic principles for maintaining road bridges on the Ukrainian-Moldov state border for the future. According to Appendix 1 of the Agreement, the Ukrainian side will maintain a 252-metre-long bridge in Dniester on the R10 Road Showcase – Mozir - Ovruk Mogilov-Podilski via Zitomir, Winnic. The Moldovan side keeps the bridge 231 metres across the Dniester River near the village of Brodnica on the Je583 road, Roman Yasen-Mogilov-Podilski, Vinitsa-Zitomir. In particular, the agreement provides that works related to the maintenance of road bridges on the Ukrainian-Moldov state border include: anti-corrosive protections and repairs of overpass structures, resistances, fences, and fences. Bridges, passageways, sidewalks, barrier fences, flanks, deformative seams, support parts, equipment, road signs, embankments to secure the shores within the bridge, and winter maintenance. In addition, all works related to the maintenance of border road bridges will be carried out in such a way that the marked lines of the state border are not violated. All works are also related to the maintenance of border road bridges that may affect the marking or crossing of the state border should be aligned with the joint commission on State border control. As envisaged by the treaty, the content of this agreement does not extend to the issue of execution and financing, modernization of existing ones, and construction of new border road bridges. All costs associated with the maintenance of border road bridges are borne by the party holding the bridge. The draft law is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Taking into account the above and the fact that the draft law was discussed at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs and received a positive decision, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u26	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council discussed the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges at the Ukrainian-Moldov State border. [[Registration number 0147]] Directors of the Ministry, as well as representatives of other departments, took part in the committee’s discussion. The purpose of the draft law is to ratify an intergovernmental agreement that will significantly improve the traffic between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, which is intensifying. In the event of a positive decision by the Supreme Council, a set of work related to the maintenance of border bridges, their fulfilment conditions, and the financial obligations of the parties will be determined, as well as the conditions for the delivery of goods to be transported. Improving the technical state of border bridges will increase their reliability and longevity, which in turn will increase the volume of interstate transport by road. According to the Explanatory Note to the Project of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the implementation of the project does not require any additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine, as confirmed by the Budget Committee. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges at the Ukrainian-Moldov State border may be ratified with some observations. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules reported that the bill was registered according to articles 90-92 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But the committee has some observations about the procedure for passing and passing this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, following its own consideration of the bill, has established and officially confirmed that the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council ratify the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? Well, please sign up for the performance. Please put your names on the board. National Deputy Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u28	Vladimir Karpuk, “For Ukraine!” MP, “Our Ukraine”. We support the bill of ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges on the Ukrainian-Moldov border. This will contribute to the financing, the normal technical provision, of these bridges, by the fact that there are some 400,000 Ukrainians living in Moldova, who have a close relationship with their homeland, long - standing economic ties. That's why we're voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, of course, that the Agreement offered by the Ministry of Transport and Communications on ratification between Ukraine and Moldova needs to be done, all the more so as you know that in recent times Ukraine, which has six of the six, and my memory, I think, four transport corridors, and, of course, these transport corridors, this is a significant part of the income to the well-established budget, but unfortunately, as statistics show in the past year especially, these transport opportunities, which should bring a significant profit to our State, could accordingly be directed towards the construction of all transport highways, not always in time or properly used. And that's why Ukraine loses its transportation capabilities. And, of course, everything that has to do with improving the traffic situation, including other highways, needs public attention and public support. This is our face when we enter our country, so to speak. But how does this work in this area today? In my view, on regular trips to Western Ukraine and other issues, what do I see? That Ukrainian workers often do not work on automobiles. Our skilled workers work in Italy, Portugal, and elsewhere, they reach, you know, 4 to 7 million. These are the only jobs that, by the way, the President of Ukraine created only outside Ukraine. And these jobs create additional opportunities for the state budget of those other countries, and accordingly our citizens are not protected. In turn, take the Kiev-Zitomir route, Kiev-Equal. There are Turkish workers working at this site. I have a question for the Ministry of Transport, including a deputy who just reported on how our workers are not able to get a job guaranteed and the aliens are working? That's the first question. I have a question at the same time. You remember that on November 23, 2009, some of the media, yes, the newspaper Delo, the television channel "24" distributed information very criminally, I would say. Why is it criminal? Think about it. On this information, 7.8 kilometers of roads last year were built and spent 913.5 million dollars, and so on, there is that information. I have a question with the Attorney General's Office and with the relevant authorities of others who control. How is Ukraine’s government spending on road construction being embezzled, stolen, and on a very large scale? Thieves like this are just terrible numbers, and I think the Attorney General should turn. And check out this information that sounded on this television channel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u32	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to pay attention, please! - for a very serious matter. Of course, the issue of handling traffic corridors and bridges is the right question, and there are no questions. But this is an intergovernmental agreement, it is not a covenant between the owners of the subjects. It's an appropriate ratification, all of it. It should be considered in the system of international economic relations with the Republic of Moldova. In a different international policy, first of all, international economic policy as well. In the case of systemyness, the systemic phenomenon cannot be considered. Why do I say that? And because the explanatory note states that the legal aspects of the acceptance of an agreement among others are the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the State Border of 18 August 1999. This covenant was ratified by the Supreme Council, the law of April 6, 2000. As a result of the arrangements, there was then to be an exchange of territories between the States of Ukraine and Moldova. Ukraine was to give Moldova a part of the Danube coastline, creating conditions for the country’s exit to the sea. Moldova, under the Additional Protocol to this Treaty, has undertaken to transfer to Ukraine part of the Odessa-Reni road with a length of 7.7 kilometres in the area of Palanca, the Republic of Moldova, as well as the area through which it passes. The Ukrainian side has fulfilled its obligations, including the transfer of 24 hectares [24 ha] of land to the village of Giurgulesti, where the Moldovan side is now actively building, has actually built an oil terminal. Yet, as is known from open sources, including appropriate appeals by the district councils of the Odessa region, Moldova has not been transferred to Ukraine, this section of the road, Palanca, 7.7 miles (7.7 km) away. In this regard, I have a question: How can we ratify agreements with a country that is said to be based on legal aspects, including a treaty that is not being implemented by the other party? I think Oleg Grigorovich, this is a complex issue to consider. And so any deal can be concluded, and the previous deal is against us. I think I need to be more serious. I would like to clarify, by the way, including by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the failure to implement a very serious previous agreement with the Republic of Moldova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u33	Please, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not missed this issue. Every year, on behalf of the Supreme Council at a joint session of the Inter-Parliamentary Inter-Governmental Commission with Moldova, our delegation, in which I take part, is actively, persistently and firmly questioning the Moldovan side of its failure to fulfil its contractual obligations to transfer a 7km road to the village of Palanca. The last meeting was in Chisinau. The Moldovan side promised to ratify this after all - parliamentary, presidential elections. that covenant and fulfill its obligations. Questions such as Palanca, Judjuleste, Dniestrowski Hydrovusol, bridge through, to the Moldovan population of Ataka, such questions are eleven. These questions have accumulated over the years. And that's why we have to solve them one by one, one by one, we can't solve them. Today's question is not directly related to the question of improving the use of motor bridges that have been built for 30 to 40 years and that are today threatening transport flows and are a direct threat to these bridges. That's why I wouldn't tie up. On the other hand, the honourable colleague who asked this question, absolutely right, the government, the President, must take a strong, active position. Moldova must live up to its obligations. Moreover, there are new claims at the waterfront in the Jurgulesta district, where they are asked to see once again an acre [1.5 ha] of water, the watery surface of the river, so that they can place more comfortable oil terminals and oil refineries. We gave them permission to enter the world ocean, we sacrificed a large part of our territory, and we should make sure that the Republic of Moldova, which considers Ukraine, as one of the guarantors in the negotiation process, “five plus one” fulfils its obligations and does not look at the neighbor who whispers: “Do not do or do.” I think it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. How would you like to proceed with this proposal, please note that the ratification of this document has been postponed, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government should immediately submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine information on the grounds for the exchange of territories, as it relates to the Constitution of Ukraine. The referendum, as far as we can remember, was not on this issue. Why is this covenant not fulfilled? If the process continues this way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be required to make a proposal for the denunciation of the agreement and order of the matter, for whoever is not a ruler, they will all be in Ukrainian territory. Therefore, the proposal is to postpone consideration of the matter, oblige the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to submit the necessary documents within three days with all the explanations. The committee is tasked with dealing with these issues and in the next session, in the first plenary week, to return to the consideration of this issue in the complex. Because we don't have the border issues solved, practically, with all the neighbors. We need to take a principled stand on this issue. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u36	Vladimir Mikhailovich, to this question, Yuri Karmazin. I'd like to, I'm just using that area. We did the opposite: we made Moldova a maritime state. I want to be heard by the representatives of Moldova, the Embassy of Moldova in Ukraine: we have made you, Your Honor, representatives of the sea state. Now you're putting technological pressure on us, on the Odessa area in the form of a sea terminal, an oil terminal. Well, you're already sitting on your head, sorry about the not entirely diplomatic expression. So let's prepare an argument that if we don't do the deal, we're going to have to get out of that deal if we don't take the steps forward. That's how we're going to do it. Because I see expectation, attachment to presidential, parliamentary elections. We don't care when there's a parliamentary or presidential election in Moldova or when we have one. Interstate relations, our territory that we gave up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, registration number 0151, is being submitted to your consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism Kohan Timofi Grigorovich. And the co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. And let's also, your honors, let's do it this way. When we consider ratifications, the main thing, as well as reports, should be the first person with all due respect for substitutes. I ask you to prepare an appropriate address so that we can have proper order. Please, Timothy Grigorovitch, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions is being submitted to your consideration. The convention was adopted by the 33 General Conference of UNESCO on October 20, 2005, in Paris, France, and took effect on March 18, 2007. Today, 83 countries, members of UNESCO, have joined the convention. The convention aims to create the conditions necessary for the development of national minority cultures, namely to protect and encourage forms of cultural expression, to create conditions for the free interaction of different cultures and to encourage intercultural cooperation. The ratification of the convention will greatly strengthen Ukraine's position in the negotiating process of Ukraine-EU and in its relations with the European Union in general. Further implementation of the convention will bring Ukraine closer to the conclusion of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, introduce our country into the European legislative field of culture and enable Ukraine to participate fully in the programmes and projects of the European Commission, including the Culture 2007-2013 programme. It will create conditions for the development and development of national minority cultures, and will help boost Ukraine’s positive image on the international scene. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u39	Thank you, Timothy Grigorovitch, please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please make a decision of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u40	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed a draft law on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Registration number 0151 from November 5, 2009. This framework is an international convention and the accession of Ukraine is of serious importance. After reviewing the bill with the participation of the directors of the Ministry of Culture, the committee made a recommendation to support its ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This international convention was adopted at the 33rd session of the United Nations General Conference on Education, Science and Culture of UNESCO on October 20, 2005, and took effect on March 18, 2007. So, as you can see, Ukraine wasn't in much of a hurry in this part. In line with the Explanatory Note by the Ministry of Culture, article 18 of this convention provides for the creation of a dedicated international fund for cultural diversity, which will consist of regular, voluntary contributions from the convention participants. The provisions of this international agreement do not determine the extent of such contributions, according to the recommendations of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture proposes to determine the amount of Ukraine's voluntary contribution by applying the so-called one-per-cent principle, whereby the country's contribution to the fund should be one percent of its contribution to the UNESCO annual budget. So the amount of Ukraine's contribution to this fund is going to be $1 thousand,670,35 cents a year, i.e. it's a minimum. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, after considering this bill, considers ratification to be appropriate. The Committee on Rules of Procedure reported that the draft law was registered according to the requirements of the articles of the Rules, but it had some comments on its drafting. The committee noted some inaccuracies in the translation, even raising the question of the word “category of diversity” instead of “diversity” and so on. The Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council noted that the bill has an impact on the expenditure of the budget, without significantly increasing it, and will be implemented annually at the expense of the National Budget of Ukraine under the budget programme “Procurement for the culture of Ukrainian national minorities”. Please support the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u41	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this document? None. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I wanted to take advantage of this subject because the Ministry of Culture is involved. It's a paradoxical situation, the more we get involved in the UNESCO cooperation system, and more actively, you realize that by ratifying this convention now, we're going to make some commitments, plus, as proposed, 1 million 650 thousand and so on, and that's right, because we have to work together with other countries. But basically we don't do all the commitments on the UNESCO line from the ones we made earlier. Look, we have two objects in the UNESCO cultural heritage -- Sofia Kyivska, Kiev-Pecherska Lavra -- as one object and the historical part of Lviv. So over the last two years, we've been given such oral and other warnings that the local authorities of Kiev, for example, are there problems with Lviv -- they're not responding in any way to UNESCO's observations and to our commitments that we as a state have taken. What notes? There must be one body that coordinates the work, such as Sofia and Kiev-Pecher Lavra, a state body. So there should be no obstruction within the boundaries of the corresponding ones and so on. So I think the ministry, when it offers us these documents, should have a clear understanding of how we do it. Because another UNESCO delegation is coming, they're going to say you didn't do it, and you're not doing it. That's why I think that in part of our cultural heritage, and once again, this is the historical part of Lviv, this is, above all, Sofia Kyivska, who is now suffering from a roadblock that is about to enter the territory of Sofia Kyivska. I think maybe even a special government meeting should be held on this issue. Because I know that the Kiev City Council is not responding to this, it does not stop the construction there, so that when we make additional commitments, we do not forget to do it because we are creating a positive image of Ukraine entering the cultural space of Europe, but in parallel we are creating the negative image that we are entering into this space, we are not fulfilling the commitment and principles of this cultural co-existence of Europe. So I support the adoption and ratification of this convention. But I would like to take a special look at how we can fulfill our commitments especially in the part of our UNESCO cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u43	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Kirovograd. Before what Tomenko said, I just want to add. Here, really, we're not that ritualistic today, let's say ratification, and there are very serious and very big problems behind it. First of all, this document has certainly appeared and supported it and UNESCO and the United Nations because we have a really huge problem today, such as globalization and cultural diversity. It is really this, perhaps one of the most powerful factors of opposition, the unification of mankind on the planet. And to what Tomenko said, let's say we're not just, let's say, the Kyiv authorities there, the Ministry of Culture isn't always, let's say, performing their functions to preserve those monuments that are listed by UNESCO. I just want to remind our voters and colleagues of the fact that, according to UNESCO regulations, even the buffer zone, or zone, is a kilometre zone that is around this monument in order to build anything in it, requires special permission from UNESCO. Without that permission, it's all considered invalid. For example, in our native Kiev, no one is paying attention to this. They're literally built in the territory itself, even Lavra, I'm not talking about the buffer zone. That's why we really need to ratify this document. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I fully support you. And let's, let's actually do that, we really do have to be the first people to report that question. I respect the deputy minister, but perhaps the minister would be here. I don't remember him when we saw him here in our hall, Mr. Vukun. And what I want to add is that he went to Brazil, spending about 3 million, as I was told, went to visit, where a small handful of these Ukrainians were still "stefanian," as it were, leaving then. And the creative alliances in November and December did not receive a penny of government support, and the money for the Ministry of Culture was transferred.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u45	National MP, Evening, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support the bill to be ratified. The Party of the Regions has always been behind a multisectoral policy of cultural, scientific, scientific and technical relations between the countries of the Euro-Atlantic Community, the countries of the European Community and we are in the process of ratifying the bill. The Party of the Regions will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u47	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. To the content of the actual document of questions does not arise, on the contrary, I think this is now relevant enough and in this case I want to use the word “modeno” in a beautiful, normal context, today in fashion and properly talk about the need for cultural diversity. Moreover, many countries view this as their acquisition, and obviously Ukraine should consider it their acquisition and develop this bonus, this plus when there is really a variety of cultures, the mutual enrichment of cultures and so on. And I have a small question, just in this case, in form. This is where the financial and economic justification and the committee head correctly said, well, he was precisely saying that it would be envisaged to pay the specified fee at the expense of the state budget, in particular those determined by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism under the article “Actions for the play of the culture of national minorities”. I'm not against it, but there's some doubt here, because, you know, one thing, to put money into an international fund even that deals with this issue, and another thing, to help in this country directly with the rise and reproduction of national minority cultures. I mean, there's no obvious correspondence here, although I think it's possible, in principle, to close the eyes, but in preparing the document, obviously there was a reason why the fund "Ukraine gives money" could have an impact on the development of national minorities inside the country, this is obviously the future that needs to be better prepared by the law-making body of the legislative initiative. One more moment. It says here that, in an explanatory note, the corresponding changes will be made to the way in which funds are used under this budget programme during 2009-2010. The currentity is lost, and I understand why, because in August 2009 this bill was actually drafted, I also think it will have to be taken into account. As far as content is concerned, I think it's progressive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal was to adopt the Law on the Ratification of this Convention. There's no other offer? Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Registration number 0151. Please vote. [[11:18:38]] For 365 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, signed on 17 March 1994 in Prague, is under consideration. [[Registration number 0137]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Zyjenov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee on European Integration, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Vecerko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, signed on 17 March 1994 in Prague, developed in accordance with section “B” of part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts for the purpose of carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Protocol. This protocol was signed on September 16, 2008, in Kiev. On the Ukrainian side, the Protocol was signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, Czech Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mirik Topolanik. The Protocol on Amendments to the Agreement provides for the following. In connection with the introduction of the Czech Republic to the European Union, paragraph 3 of Article 3 has been amended to provide the most supportive regime. These changes foresee that the position of the national regime and the regime for the greatest promotion of this article will not extend to the benefits that the Contracting Party provides on the basis of its obligations as a member of a customs, economic or monetary union, a common market or a free trade area. Article 3 is also supplemented by paragraphs 4 and 5. 4 pt. “The contracting party understands that the obligations of another Contracting Party as a member of a customs, economic or monetary union, common market or free trade zone include obligations arising out of an international contract or a mutual agreement relating to that customs, economic or monetary union, the common market or the free trade zone. Item 5. “The position of this Agreement cannot be interpreted as the obligation of one Contracting Party to grant to investors of another Contracting Party or their investment or income such benefits, preferences or privileges as the first Contracting Party may grant as a member of a customs, economic or monetary union, common market or zone of free trade to other States on the basis of an international treaty which is wholly or principally related to taxation. The amendment to Article 6 of the Treaty on “Provisions” is complemented by the provision to guarantee by the Contracting Parties a transfer of payments that relate to investments and revenues irrespective of the measures taken by the European Community. The Agreement is also supplemented by a new article 10 entitled “Basic security interests”, which provides for what measures the Treaty Party may take to protect its fundamental security interests, in particular: first, criminal acts; secondly, arms trade, ammunition and military property; and measures that apply during war or other extraordinary events in international relations. The main security interests of the Contracting Party may include interests arising from its membership in the customs, economic, or monetary union, the free market, or the free trade zone. The entry into force of the Protocol will contribute to the improvement of friendly relations with the Czech Republic and the development of international investment cooperation, the involvement of foreign capital and technology, the activation of foreign trade, the reduction of non-commercial risks to foreign investors, the consolidation of Ukraine's positive image on the international scene, as a country with a favourable investment climate that has a stable international legal basis and the protection of foreign investment. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, there is a question for fellow Smither. Gregory Smythe. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Mikhailo Alexandrovich, please provide figures on how many Ukrainian businesses or how much money is invested in the economy in the Czech Republic from Ukraine, will Ukraine receive profits because of its businesses? That's the first question. And how do you feel about the fact that in the Czech Republic today more than 200,000 of our highly qualified citizens are working in those Czech businesses and making them profit, as it were, is an investment? Is it to ensure their rights and freedoms and so forth? This is reflected in our contractual relations between Ukraine and the Czech Republic in terms of the pension and social protection of these citizens? Pom, 200,000 people are very, very large numbers. Give a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. According to the State Department, I will provide data on direct investment from the Czech Republic in the economy: at the beginning of 2009, they amounted to 80.3 million United States dollars, representing about 0.22 percent of the total investment in Ukraine. Regarding employment issues, the social protection of Ukrainian citizens who work in the Czech Republic, let's say that this protocol did not address these issues, because these changes were initiated by the Czech side after they joined the European society. And in line with the changes that the Czech Republic has made to the EU, the amendments to this Protocol have been envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, do you have any other questions? None. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u55	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on European Integration considered the draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment. In our view, the ratification of this Protocol will contribute to the development of economic cooperation in the investment sphere and to the improvement of the mechanism for the protection of foreign investment and the strengthening of the most supportive regime for contractual parties, which will positively affect investment activities in Ukraine and the Czech Republic. The committee shall consider it appropriate to ratify the specified Protocol. This decision is in line with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please support all factions. On my part, I would like to add and ask the Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Zjiživnov, given that the Czech Republic is a member of the European Community, to add to the Protocol that the Czech side will contribute to Ukraine's investment in other countries of the European Community. All ties must be used, all opportunities for Ukraine to invest more in the countries of the European Community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! Is there a need to discuss? Who insists on the discussion? Gregory Smith, microphone, please. And Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national MPs, everyone knows that a more pressing problem for our society is labour emigration. The more pressing problem is that it's an investment climate in our Ukraine. And Ukraine, of course, always fulfills or should fulfill its obligations in terms of protecting foreign investment. And so the ratification of this agreement, of course, between the Czech Republic and Ukraine, needs to be done. But at the same time, I'm paying attention to how Ukraine today can be proud of whether it is investing in another country in order to conquer the markets of these countries. In my opinion, and the statistics I have, our presence in foreign markets, our presence with our technology is almost entirely absent. What we're in the external market with: we're only here in the external market -- it's our labor force, it's our skilled workers. And unfortunately, our State does not always adequately reflect this understanding in terms of what our investment is when negotiating agreements between the European Union and other countries where our labour resources are. So given that this is such a difficult situation in terms of protecting our social, so to speak, the needs of these workers, in terms of protecting our interests, economic interests, I'm paying attention to the Ministry of Economics, and I'm paying attention to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that Ukraine should look at this problem in a new way, not just from what it is, but from what it is, but from what is our investment abroad. Since the Western countries enjoy a skilled workforce, they use it at a cheap rate of pay, they always provide them with decent living or working conditions. And in this respect, this population cannot be out of state attention. And I think that's one of the main issues that these two ministries should be working today. And it has to protect these citizens in any way. And please note this issue as an urgent problem, as our share in investing in the development of Europe, accordingly Ukraine needs to improve adequately the climate or access to our goods, Ukrainians, Europeans and other countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u58	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u59	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Undoubtedly, ratification needs to be supported, because Ukrainian-Czech relations are growing more and more economically in our Western areas. For example, there are dozens of joint ventures in the Zakartat area today and there is no doubt a need to ratify the Treaty, but there is still a proposal for the government of the country to improve the relationship between the Czech Republic and Ukraine to protect the rights of citizens who travel and work in the Czech Republic every year for tens of thousands of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u60	Honorable National MPs, who still insists on expressing their position on this document? None. The committee proposes to approve the draft Protocol Ratification Act. I would like to vote on a proposal by the Committee on the Approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, signed on 17 March 1994 in Prague. [[Registration number 0137]] Please vote. [[11:31:36]] For 352 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Grant Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation of Ukraine is under review. [[as Grant's Fund Manager from the Nuclear Security Account]] [[as Receiver]] The rapporteur is Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee of Ukraine Nikolaychuk Olena Anatoliyevna, co-rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, Večorko Volodymir Mikolayovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u61	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable members of the people, your attention is drawn to the bill on the ratification of the Treaty on the grant of a nuclear safety project by the Chernobyl AES between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation of Ukraine. What is the purpose and purpose of this grant? As part of the removal from the Chernobyl AES operation and the conversion of the Hidden object into an environmentally safe object, there are a number of important projects. One of them is a nuclear fuel depot for the fuel of the Chernobyl AES, the so-called SWITZ-2. This storage facility was to be built in 2003 or 2005. In its time, it was built, but because of the poor quality of its construction, because of design errors, the object that was built cannot be used for the purpose for which it was built. Thus, both the government of Ukraine and the investors considered the matter, since it was built on grants. As a result, the project was modified, additional funds were allocated to donors. Among other things, it was decided that donors would also grant a separate grant of expertise to license the project with a view to ensuring that, after its modernization, the facility and it could be put into proper use and that the important issue of the long - term, up to a hundred years, safe storage of the spent fuel of the Chernobyl AES was resolved. The grant provides 3.5 million euros for these purposes, which will be used to pay for both Ukrainian and qualified foreign experts. In the event that these funds were not allocated by grant, these funds would have to be financed from the Ukrainian budget, since Chernobyl’s AES is a budget institution, it is the contracting authority of the project. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? You don't? Have a seat, please. Please, at least listen to the European Integration Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Committee on European Integration considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Grant Agreement, the Chernobyl AES Nuclear Security Project, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a grant manager for nuclear security, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation of Ukraine as a recipient. The main objective of the grant agreement is to support the Maintenance of Regulation and other State bodies with regard to the implementation of building regulations, the implementation and operation of the new nuclear fuel depot at Chernobyl, i.e. the SWIT-2, in order to guarantee a proper consideration of security issues. SWITZ-2 will be built as a dry-type storage facility designed to store back-to-back heat-supply assemblies and out-of-work additional sinks that have accumulated during the work of CHEES, which has accumulated more than 21,000 heat-supply assemblies on its site in the history of its exploitation. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is granting 3.5 million euros to the Grant Regulation. This will reduce the cost of the Chernobyl AES, which is financed by the State Budget of Ukraine. The main task during the implementation of the project is to effectively license ITS-2, which is successfully implemented by the technical support organisation to the Maintenance and other regulators during the entire licensing process for all necessary work to ensure timely resolution of outstanding security issues. In our opinion, the ratification of this agreement will reduce the spending of the State budget set for receiving the Chernobyl AES and contribute to the effective regulation of Ukraine's large circle of nuclear security problems. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to ratify the said agreement, which is in line with the decision of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster. People's deputies are requested to support all factions. Thank you very much for your attention, and Elena Anatolyevna would like to ask you to carefully monitor the flow of the cash data, which has been used with a targeted and targeted appointment so that they will not be lost on the way from the bank to Chernobyl’s AES somewhere in the offices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who needs to express his position, Gregory Smythuch and Anatoly Semenoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Undoubtedly, Chernobyl for our country is a real disaster that occurred back in the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, you know, I've heard about this treaty, about ratification, of course, that the Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee did not hear the main motivation for this ratification agreement, part of whether or not the European Union had implemented its nuclear capabilities in relation to Ukraine during, remember, an agreement had been signed on the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station, Ukraine, yes, then temporarily reduced its nuclear power capabilities, closed it, went to a meeting because, including the opinion of the world community. But the world community has made a commitment accordingly. For example, I do not have information today and it would be appropriate to hear whether the World Society has fulfilled its commitments to Ukraine in terms of financing the closure of the station. If that didn't work out, that's why there's a new question right now, of course this deal needs to be ratified, because it's a possibility. But why does Ukraine today not ask questions about issues that have not been met or that of another country? Including the European Union, including other countries. So once again, I'm going to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I think with the arrival of Dusty, he's going to raise these questions because it's the interest of Ukraine, both economic and social, and so on, environmental and so on. So you have to raise that question and ask, if a country does not execute and enter into a hall or another treaty, you have to inform the MPs that such a treaty has been signed, is not being fulfilled, and what is the reason in this plan, and a new agreement is being proposed on a particular issue. And then we will adequately understand whether these are our friendly, as it were, motives bilateral or other motives for ratifying one agreement or another. I'm asking and I'm paying attention to once again, and the ministries, please give this information to the deputy corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u66	Anatoly Seminoga, head of the profile committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I may be able to answer the question of the previous speaker about what is being done today in international agreements with the international community. I want to say that most of my contracts are being implemented. And what we're talking about today is that if we really want to shut down the Chernobyl nuclear facility and make the Chernobyl nuclear facility a safe, environmentally clean facility, we need to build a nuclear fuel depot and a waste fuel that is funded by an international community that is financed through a nuclear security fund. And what we're talking about today is that in order to complete this construction, we need to do an expert on the licensing of project documentation. This project documentation, expertise is carried out either at the expense of the nuclear fund or at the expense of the Chernobyl nuclear station, according to the state budget itself. Thus, the European Bank for Reconstruction went to our meeting in this regard and, as has been pointed out, appointed the European Bank’s guarantor to license the facility in accordance with the ratification agreement. That's why our nation and we national deputies are interested in ratifying this agreement, because it will really help carry out the work, the licensing that is needed today, and build this shelter. Properly surrendering it, according to the operating schedules, will enable you to really securely store the nuclear fuel that is being used at the nuclear station today. So I personally ask to support the ratification of the treaty, because it really is needed and needed by our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, there are other suggestions, no one wants to make a statement. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Grant Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation of Ukraine. [[as Grant's Fund Manager from the Nuclear Security Account]] [[as Receiver]] [[Registration number 0157]] Please vote. [[11:43:09]] For 318 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State support for aircraft industry is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2515]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u69	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Allow me, literally, one minute to give a reminder of what's going on. This bill is designed to create conditions for the development of aviation industry, to ensure the fulfilment of the sovereign obligations of the State aimed at the development of aircraft, the preservation and expansion of jobs, and to increase Ukraine’s civil and military security, to ensure the competitiveness of aircraft, engines and aviation equipment for domestic production. To this end, the bill amends the laws of Ukraine: “On State support for the airline industry in Ukraine”, “On the sole customs tariff”, “On land fees”, “On value added tax”, “On company income taxation”, “On the order in which foreign currency accounts are made”. The adoption of draft law 2515 will provide opportunities for domestic companies to carry out airport construction obligations for export supplies under international contracts, including Libya for the supply of AN-74 and.-300 aircraft, with India for the repair and modernization of AN-32 aircraft, with the Russian Federation for the supply of AN-148, with Iran for the production of AN-140 and AN-148, with China for the supply of L-15 aircraft. The introduction of the bill will create an enabling environment for enterprises to invest, and the introduction of modern aircraft engineering technologies, which will allow for a three-year increase in production from 7.8 billion to 19 billion dollars 2.4 times. The budget goes from 0.8 billion to 1.8 billion dollars 2.2 times. And create an additional 5.6 thousand jobs. The bill does not conflict with the rules of the SOT. That's the text that you've been given for the second reading is fully in line with the agreement on industrial subsidies that we joined when we ratified the protocol for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. On the basis of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept the draft number 2515 in the second reading and generally as a law. The Cabinet of Ministers supports this bill in second reading and in general. And it's no wonder, because you know that Kabin pays a lot of attention to the development of airplane construction. Which has been particularly evident in the last month. So please, there have been 24 revisions. They're all accounted for, or accounted for in fact. So either we can go along with these changes, if there are, and if there are no objections, we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is complete. The committee practically counted all the changes, some editorially, others essentially, and the rest completely. If there is no objection, please, Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u71	Vladimir Bondarenko. I'd like to address the entire room. This question is not a political one. After all, Ukraine is now part of the seven nations of the world that are releasing airplanes. It's an extremely high level of technical readiness of our nation to solve the most complex issues: it's also composite materials, it's also special metals that are used, it's electronics, it's basically every plane needs about a million pieces and a whole bunch of industries that get jobs. Today, Kiev has two enterprises: the Kyiv Mechanics and Aviation. When you go to work in the morning and see tens of thousands of people go to work. It's just the exception that exists today. So I would ask everyone to throw away any political stuff there, because it gives our people a job, gives glory to our state, keeps it in seven of the most advanced in technical terms of the state. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u72	Yes. Now, one minute. Apologizes to the National Deputy of Ukraine Slobodan, then to Jaroslav Suhi. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u73	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, please tell us that we have such a selective approach to our government and, I think, to a large extent, your committee to the business of Ukraine and to the support of one or the other. Clearly, airplane construction is a very important branch of Ukraine, and I am personally willing to support it as well. But I want to know, for example, the leading world leaders in aviation -- France, the United States -- they gave these areas preference in legislation and taxation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u74	I can tell you that under the single grant fund, only the European Union every year, pay attention to the subsidy every year. ?? and the adjacent sectors are spent about 40 billion euros. As a subsidy. By the way, this kind of violates the rules of the World Trade Organization. And every year, there's a rally between China, between the United States and the European Union, where they're trying to clean up these subsidies. In the United States, there are other issues that are supposed to be given fiscal preferences on direct boing taxes. In China there are subsidies. And here they are, and Ukraine, I'm sorry, there's no system at all, this extension of our logical work, and I'll remind you that we recently passed, I think, the Model Law on Space Support, remember. It was working, it was working. Now let's continue this logic and adopt the same law that applies to aircraft construction. And the last. It's not a selective approach, it's a deliberate approach to both government and a committee to support high-level industries.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u75	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi and we will make decisions. Dear colleagues, if there's an amendment, please. And the discussion is "I." We don't need it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u76	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to support the point of view expressed by colleague Vladimir Dmitrovitch Bondarenko. Indeed, the government’s strategic course for the modernization of high-tech machinery industries should only be welcomed and airplane building, by the way, which car building and shipbuilding, and agricultural engineering at the level of the multiplicity effect are not equal in the world. One enterprise, for example, provides work for hundreds of industrial enterprises. This bill is aimed at increasing the competitiveness of our aviation industry and aims to modernize the core funds and primary production to make our production attractive and to fill our budget. I ask you to support this bill in a second reading as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on State support for aviation industry is put to the vote. Registration number 2515. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u78	The committee's asking for support. [[11:51:33]] For 345.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u79	Decision taken. I mean, the law was passed. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is being announced for consideration. [[on the reporting of the National Council]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? This law is based on one proposal. That the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the President or not less than a third of the National Deputies from the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, may consider the issue of an interim report from the National Council on specific issues of its activities. The issue of an interim report of the National Council is included in the agenda of the daily plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without a vote and is discussed at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 30 days from the date of its introduction. This is a complement. There were no other suggestions of such importance. There is a reason for this law to be made. Is there no objection? We've been looking at it for a long time. Dear colleagues, as amended? What is the correction? Tell me, what's the correct number? People's MP Moroko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, at first glance, really, strengthening parliamentary control over the work of the Nakrad on television is good. But if this control initiates and actively promotes the government faction of BUT and it is during the pre-election period that it is no longer good. It is difficult to call a step towards democracy the fact that BUTT is trying to put the media regulator on short notice during the elections. I therefore proposed my amendment in order to take this election stake out of the hands of the ruling coalition. But I have to agree with the conclusion of a special committee that the amendment is somewhat in conflict with the letter of the Constitution, and I simply urge members in the Chamber not to vote in favour of this not entirely democratic project in this election campaign situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u81	What are some other warnings? So you don't insist on voting on this amendment? No, yeah. Dear colleagues, let's look at it this way. This is actually the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not increase its control functions, it is clear that no one needs it. That's the first one. Secondly, your honors, this law will not take effect until the presidential campaign is completed. As long as it's finalized and sent to the President's signature, the election will be over. Therefore, it is solely for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out its control functions as well as for the President. By the way, it gives the President the right to request an off-the-shelf report from the National Council. So I think it's okay here. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio. [[on the reporting of the National Council]] [[Registration number 2442]] Please vote. [[11:55:20]] For 185 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading the draft law, on the second. [[Registration number 2442]] [[11:55:44]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have several laws on the introduction of honorary titles: “Deserved miner”, “Deserved civil protection worker” and “Deserved tourism worker”. So why don't we take a look at what we deserve and take a break? Well, come on, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, that's what it takes to encourage people morally. Let's take a look and take a break, real quick. Please, Olga Borisov Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u82	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, will not take up much of your time, but he needs your attention. Three bills relating to the establishment of an honorary title. Can I have all three of them right away, please? 1462 prepared for the second reading – Ukrainian State Prizes, 2411 – on the establishment of the Honorable Job of Tourism and 2103 – on the establishment of the Honourable Civil Protection Officer. [[on the introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Mining of Ukraine”]] Dear colleagues, we accepted them this summer. Since then, there have been only two proposals: one of the national MPs of Seminoga, who was about to take effect on January 1, 2010, since we already have January 2010, it is appropriate to predict that these laws will become effective if they are elected. adoption since January 1, 2011 yet. The committee supported this amendment by the national MP of Seminoga and rejected the following amendment by the national MP Carmazin, who proposed that all three bills be merged into one and considered as one. I refused, because each of these bills was adopted separately, by a separate procedure, and so we didn't see it as possible to view them as one. The committee on all three came to the conclusion that they can be accepted in a given form, as presented by your mind, in a second reading and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! The proposal to adopt draft laws as laws to put them into effect on 1 January 2011 so that when they enter into force, appropriate documents will have to be produced with rewards and so forth. Is there no objection? Yes, and to the budget. Please, Jaroslav Kenzier. Only if you have an amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u84	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we need to move away from those rudiments of the former system, the former state. But nowhere in the world are those deserving, national and so forth, and it needs to be recorded in general and not to irritate people and not to compete, as it were, in this respect in society. I suggest we even ask questions about the elimination of those so-called names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u86	I accepted that wish, it's been heard in this room a number of times. To this day, however, Mr. Kendzer. There is the Law on the State Awards of Ukraine. It is not cancelled, so we are acting on the basis of this law. And if we're talking about encouraging citizens, I don't see this as a negative moment, because as long as this law is there, they have to have those rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, thank you. Let's do it this way. Let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes to adopt it in second reading and in general with effect from 1 January 2011. [[on the introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Mining of Ukraine”]] [[Registration number 1462]] Please vote. [[12:00:24]] For 311 The law is passed. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for Second reading and generally as a law introducing this law in force on 1 January 2011. [[on the introduction of the honorary title “Deserved Civil Protection Officer”]] [[Registration number 2103]] Please vote. [[12:01:04]] For 315 The law is passed. I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes to adopt it in second reading and in general as a law implementing it on 1 January 2011. [[on the introduction of the honorary title "Deserved Ukrainian Tourism Officer"]] [[Registration number 2411]] Please vote. [[12:01:41]] For 315 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 33 minutes, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u88	The deputies are invited to the session room. Which happens on our third floor, and so we can continue our work. Now, let's move on to the review of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[against the spread of child pornography]] This is the third reading. The rapporteur is Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. Please. And invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u89	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On November 17, this year, a bill amending certain legislative acts against the spread of child pornography was adopted in a second reading. But in view of the comments made by a colleague from the “For Ukraine!” group of Xenia Lápina to the ninth amendment, this is the ninth amendment, which in the table on page 10 did not make a third reading. And we have fully reconciled this amendment with the authors of the law and also with the colleagues of Span and Morocco. The legal authorities found, without notice, the right column of the comparative table to become law. The committee therefore proposes that the law be adopted in the third reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u90	Yeah, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u91	Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u92	But I know it's Ungurian. Then we still have it. There's another law. Please, what's the correction? National MP Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u93	I'm in general. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We've been very productive in working with the copyright team. All five factions have put together representatives to coauthorize this bill, which in fact lays down mechanisms to combat this disgraceful phenomenon as child pornography. And I thank you for supporting the committee, all of your colleagues. And I ask the House of Deputies to support all factions in the committee's drafting of this bill. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u94	I would have asked for it in the second law of 1340, then we would have made a decision. And I'm going to the Council Channel to stop direct broadcasting, and then fewer people will want to hold press conferences. Perform during an exclusive break. Please. Let's talk about Law 1340 – amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the protection of social morality]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u95	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, when these laws were under consideration, was presided over by Alexander Volodymyrovich. The point was that if we passed the law where the author of the Hungarians and other colleagues are, then this law is subject to rejection, because these rules are contained in the law, I'll say number now, 3271. This law should then be put to the vote, as spoke of by a colleague of the Hungarians. If voted, this one, where he is the author of Hennadi Moskal, is subject to rejection. These standards are in this first law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Please. I'll take a six-pointer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin. By Law 3271 through 6 of my amendments, there is a question. I suggested that I delete the proposal to complete article 33, part three. Since it is written down, I quote literally, because not everyone may have the following text: “Telecommunication users are obliged in the event of detection in information and telecommunications systems, including the Internet, information and data related to violence, pornography, racial and national intolerance and terrorism, drug propaganda, intellectual property rights violations, to report it to telecommunications providers or law enforcement authorities.” That is, a loved one who has stumbled upon information is obliged to go and write to someone. I don't think that's entirely consistent with the Constitution, that we trust that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u98	Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u99	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! This is not what we are talking about right now, and this is what you, Espenov and Morocco, our colleagues, have been asking our colleagues, but the committee and the working group have considered these observations and concluded that the issue of reports by law enforcement authorities about crimes and offences is sufficiently regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code and there is no need for them to be brought into the Telecommunications Act. That's not there right now. That's not there right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! The committee suggests that we accept the second reading. In the third reading and in general, the draft law, the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on it, so we have good reason to put this bill to a vote. It is up to the vote to draft a law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, to adopt it in the third reading and as a whole, as a law, I ask you to vote. [[against the spread of child pornography]] [[Registration number 3271]] [[12:41:38]] For 306 The law is passed. Vladimir Romanovich, now again with regard to Law 1340.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u101	The rules of this law are fully reflected in the law that we have just voted on and that is why, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is subject to removal from consideration, not rejection, but removal from consideration, that is the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! I will put to the vote such proposals, on adoption in second reading and in general, as the bill of Law 1340, but since it is already absorbed in the previous law, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, it will be repealed, otherwise we have no possibility. So please keep that in mind. I'm putting it to a vote, a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on the protection of social morality]] [[registration number 1340]] For adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law, I ask that you determine by voting so that we can cancel it. We need to clear the legal field in us. [[12:42:53]] For-23 The decision is not taken. The draft law has been repealed. Thank you. The draft Law amending article 147 of the Civil Code of Ukraine is now under review. [[on the report of the intention to sell the share in statutory capital]] Reporter: Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, please. Dear colleagues, then I go by law. Amendment one. Counted. 2nd. Counted. Three. Counted. Four. Counted. 5th. Carmazine's correction's been rejected. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? This is Law 1179. No, it's not. I'm asking you to report by law, please don't turn the Supreme Council into a nursery. Amendment number 5 of Yuri Karmazin Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin, I didn't see the microphone. Excuse me. The amendment refers to the fact that the third sentence of paragraph two, parts two of article 147 of the Civil Code, should be supplemented by the words “the next day after the day of receipt of the written text”, the end of the quotations, “which may not be less than one month”. That is, the date that we now have inscribed in Article 147 of the Law is clarified. I'd like to understand the logic of why you rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The point is that the term there is, in that article, a term of one month, we consider it, and actually, when we look at it on the committee, we think it's a little bit too big. And there was an offer to reduce it to 15 days. So actually, there were just two suggestions by date, so they actually turned to that. It was not an attempt to ignore your initiative by simply comparing the terms proposed by you and, in fact, by other entities of the legislative initiative, it was concluded that this approach would be better than 15 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u105	Are you insisting, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u106	It's not getting worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u107	Are you insisting on this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u108	No, we didn't actually release this article and it regulates the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u109	Amendment number seven of Anatolia Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Pisarenko, amendment number seven. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, amendment number nine. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to pay attention to amendment number nine. Paragraph three of the two articles of article 147 of the Civil Code, I propose that the following should be made: “The notice of the intention of the participant to sell or otherwise withdraw a portion or part thereof should be sent at the same time to the other members of that association by a letter recommending the presentation and the notification of the delivery. Unless otherwise specified by the statute of association. But provided that the attendee's knowledge of this message is documented. It's just to prevent those raid schemes that we have today. When they learned to put the stamp on the post office and then they say, and we sent it to you. And what you didn't know was not our question. Here we go. So, your honor, this is to protect people -- it needs to be written down. And I'm just asking you, if you could just say so, say it needs to be supported, because that's going to prevent what's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, I am very grateful that you have just paid attention to such subtleties in the process. But in that draft of the bill, which we had just read for the first time, there, about the recommended letters, about the very thorough procedures that could have made it easier for the committee to discuss, and the modeling situations associated with the raiding might have made the procedure more difficult. What is it? Well, for example, these letters of recommendation or messages could be from those members of the society who wouldn't want to have alienated themselves, they didn't actually take that letter, and they can't sell it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u112	That's right. And he won't take it or sign it. So we came to the conclusion that it would be documented. So on the one hand, we demand documentary confirmation that there were reports from members of the society, and on the other hand, we don't set up a form of this document so that we don't then give the opportunity, let's say, how do these letters that require signature, when you get them, or any other circumstances, to give the participant who wants to alienate his share or fate had the right to choose. In order that if he did not do so, he would otherwise inform, the only thing he would have to document was that all the members of the association had a chance to buy that share or share.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Are you insisting on putting her to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u114	So you're giving a little bit more detail, but we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u115	It's an amendment to the vote, isn't it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u116	I defend people's rights in this case. You might want to think, in my editorial opinion, that there is a guarantee that people's rights are protected. I'm talking about what's being sent first, the letter that's being recommended with a description of the presentation and the message of the delivery. That is, human rights are completely protected. You know, there's nothing about that in your suggestions, it's coming out. And once again, there will be what is happening now. Nothing changes. So, I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that not a lot of people in the hall, but, you know, history doesn't know anyone, it's known to be obvious, someone will someday study the mistakes that have been made and why, as in the Electoral Law. I ask you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u117	May I have your attention, Your Honor? Amendment 9 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we discussed this and it was defined in the first edition. But we have come to the point that this can complicate the process. [[12:50:27]] For-78 The decision is not taken. All other amendments are included. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm voting on the committee's proposal that the second reading and the entire draft of this law should be adopted, the conclusion of the General Legal Authority is positive. So I'm voting on the second reading and generally as the bill of the draft Act amending article 147 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the report of the intention to sell the share in statutory capital]] [[Registration number 1179]] [[12:51:19]] For-141 The decision is not taken. I am betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 1179]] To the others again. [[12:51:42]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act on State registration of civil status acts is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2673]] The rapporteur is the head of the Legal Policy Committee, Yuri Roman Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the exceptional importance of this legislative act and say that a very thorough examination of this bill has been made by this committee, a large number of amendments have been tabled and, in fact, a draft committee decision is being proposed before you to support these amendments, which are supported by the committee, to support this law in the second reading and in general. An extremely important law, since it defines the system of civil registration bodies, the legal and organizational principles of their activities, and the order of state registration of civil status acts. Every person faces, in fact, these problems and so that we can carry out these procedures on a high-quality legal level and this bill is directed. Please, if you have an amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u120	Okay, amendment number one. National MP Pisarenko. No, it's not. Others are counted. Pisarenko 4 and 5? Don't insist. Yeah, let's move on. Amendment 10. Yuri Carmazin. Declined. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u121	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u122	10 revisions. This is on page 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u123	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u124	Don't you insist? No, I'm sorry. Yeah, go on. 13 you insist. Amendment 13. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u125	No, it's not. Sixteenth only.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u126	Yes, Amendment 16 of Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't want to waste too much time, so where I don't have to, I won't insist on any amendments. Part of it's accounted for. Thank you. Amendment 16. I'm asking you to think about it. Part two of article 12 is proposed in such an editorial. “The information contained in the civil status records submitted by the implementing authorities of rural, rural and urban, except for the cities of regional importance of councils, shall be transmitted electronically by means of software provided for by the national civil registration of citizens with further production on paper, to the relevant Department of State Registration of Civil Status Acts, where the civil status of citizens is entered into the national civil registration of such records. I think it guarantees normal registration and normal accounting and then the operation of this register. Sam.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u128	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u129	Unfortunately, the committee rejected the amendment. This is primarily related to organizational circumstances. So actually, our job is to improve legislation, like they say, step by step. Today we do not have the technical capabilities to guarantee, Mr. Jury, such an inevitable, for example, the fulfilment of these requirements of the law. And the position of the committee was to now implement the entire system provided for by law, and then to improve it, including with the use of electronic registers. Therefore, in our understanding of the prospect of legislative improvement of this law, at this stage, after consultation with the Ministry of Justice, we concluded that it would be a bit premature and that the state could assume commitments that it would not be able to meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote amendment number 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u131	But the law will take effect immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u132	Amendment 16 Yuri Karmazin. [[12:57:03]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. What else are the adjustments, the insistence? Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u133	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Carmazin, Amendment 17. You know, if we put a checker in that we're going to be riding horses in the first place, we're going to be riding horses. And you can go to the oxen if you continue to move on the logic of the committee. And that's not the logic of rejecting such amendments. So, part 3 of article 12 I propose to present in such an editorial form, think of it as diplomatic representations and consular institutions, where there is every opportunity to do so: “The information in the civil status records provided by diplomatic representatives and consular institutions of Ukraine is transmitted electronically by means of software provided by the State Register of Civil Status Acts and further produced on paper to the relevant Department of State Registration of Civil Status Acts, where they are incorporated into the State Register of Civil Status of Citizens for the purpose of receiving such records.” There's no difficulty here anymore. So logic, if your logic is to accept that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. I absolutely agree with what it will be easier to do technically. But imagine a situation in terms of a systematic approach to the law: some acts will be introduced, some will not be introduced, and there will be confusion. The committee’s position was, therefore, to introduce what you were talking about in an orderly manner but to implement without exception. Because now we're going to have a situation where we have one procedure for diplomatic representation, and for everyone else there will be another. So it was the logic of the committee, it could be considered at the meeting right now, but at least we thought that we should introduce some systemic elements in a complex way without exception. So in both the first and the second cases, we decided to do and apply the same approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u135	I'm voting on Amendment 17. [[12:59:38]] For-96 Correction not supported. What other amendments, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this logic is the absence of any logic that has now taken place following this committee's decision. I'm going to ask you the next question. I want everyone to think. This is about the adoption or abolition of adoption, or the recognition of adoption as invalid, the removal and renewal of parental rights that are to be entered into the State Register of Civil Status of Citizens on the basis of the relevant court decision on the date of the arrival of his copy to the State Department of Registration of Civil Status Acts or on the day of the presentation by an interested person, a person named in the court’s decision, or a person authorized by him to copy such a decision. Do you understand why this is important? Children can be put out, things can be done. This is necessary to protect the rights of citizens. I want you to understand, Carmazin just doesn't write the amendment. If I write it, it's for the protection of the Constitution! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u137	Mr. Yuri, allow me to take a position on the committee. What is the complexity of the legislative process? On the one hand, all of us, regardless of the faction, are trying to resolve social relations so that they better reflect our social needs. But on the other hand, and the long one often happens that by accepting certain obligations, the State does not fulfill them, and then the question arises as to how much better it is to put a high plank and then not to do it, or all that is enshrined in the law, would inevitably be observed. Just like previous norms and this norm will not be properly implemented, this will be the basis for mass appeals to the courts, the fate of the children will not be determined in these circumstances, and so we will bear fruit, not in the settlement of social relations, but in the opposite. If we don't have any working mechanisms that allow us to do this right in the day, the same minute. When we have everything in electronic circulation, all the documents, no problems, but now people are working with papers and sometimes from the office to the person who has to sign the document goes through a day or two. And you can usually blame it, but if we make those demands and we don't do it, it'll be even worse for our conviction than we'll put in real terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u138	Vote number 18, Yuri Karmazin. Please vote. [[13:02:45]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next. What are the adjustments? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u139	19 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. I would like to see those who wave their hands to watch and read the contents and wave their brains, not their hands. So, Your Honor, article 13. It is proposed that the new first part of this content be added: “The Health Care Facility, which provides medical care to mothers during childbirth, is obliged to report daily to the relevant Department of State Registration of Civil Status Acts on paper and electronic media concerning children born during the last day and their parents”. So you and I are going to make it impossible to do any kind of child manipulation that sometimes happens in maternity homes. None other: substitutions, there, sales, or doubles, and so on, which are now being discovered and being investigated, that's not going to happen if this rule is written. I don't understand why this amendment is rejected. I just don't understand the logic of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u140	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Well, first of all, as an active legislator, a man who doesn't care about such problems. But when we looked at the committee, we asked ourselves, ‘ Does it pose a danger to provide such information, not on the very first date, but, for example, on the second or third, to deprive a child of some kind, say, a right, or a child, or its parents? ’ This is not about the term that this information should be given. It is said that such information must be provided that this information should be properly formed, recorded. And all the legal relationships that accompany these processes must be adequately reflected in our procedures. In this case, you only talk about terms. And these terms change, or set very precisely and very clearly -- it's again that we'll be able to make good intentions into our opposite. One day, someone will not be able to get involved, and then the burden will begin. From the hall. What kind of pull?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u141	Well, what is it? Well, someone, for example, I don't know, is going to press charges, something out there. There are problems that we can't even predict right now. The fact is that such a term is not in principle. And the fact is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u142	An amendment shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u143	will not obey the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u144	Amendment No. 19 Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u145	This has a negative impact.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u146	Amendment 19 Yuri Karmazin, vote, please. [[13:05:48]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to gecko, this is about children. If the suggestion was that children should not be adopted, stolen, well, at least listen, if you are not reading the law, it will be silent. What's all the fuss? And let's watch it properly, it's legally responsible. You scream at each other like it's gonna make it worse. Better Read the Laws! Please, Yuri Romanovich, move on. Amendment 21, Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on it? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't just about terms, this is a much deeper question. I'd like you to think about it, you and I have been investigating, including the commission of inquiry for the kidnapping of children, other manipulations that have been done. Thank God, that's less, but it's not off. So, I would suggest that the first part of article 13 should read as follows: “A representative of a health care and care body, an administration of a health institution, or a person who has a child who has not been taken from a maternity home, another health institution, has been detained, or has been found, obliged not later than the day following that, to submit a written application for the registration of the child’s birth to the civil registration authority, which is obliged to carry out this registration on the day of the written application. It is a matter of reporting such incidents immediately. It is that every day children are found or are born every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u148	Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u149	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I do not deny that the Supreme Council will support this amendment, although the committee has rejected it, based on the logic that it is not the terms that matter to us, but the fact that it is the message itself. But if there's the will of the Supreme Council, that's exactly what this amendment is, it's not going to make the law any worse. When that happens, the law will be violated because some circumstances will prevent it. So this is a political decision, respected colleagues. If we link the deadlines for providing information with possible illegal acts or even crimes, then we should vote in favour. Although such a direct dependency committee is in term, it has no idea immediately on the following day or in two days to provide this information. So it's for the judgment of the halls. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, the nature of the problem has been understood. It's about what if a child. The child was not taken from the maternity home, the child was thrown out or found, obliged to inform the relevant civil registration authorities on the following day to conduct the registration. That's the offer. I'll put her to the vote, this amendment. Amendment 21, please vote. [[13:09:39]] For 106 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on the 22nd amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u151	I don't insist on 22nd. If such principles are not accepted as the 21st, then what is the law for? Do you understand? I don't know why the committee works like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u152	Okay. 28 amendments. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u153	28 amendments. This is about. whether to make changes to the part of article 15, where it is proposed to make the following: “The spouse who wishes to be assigned a pre-marital name may declare this in the civil registration body during the state registration of the dissolution of the marriage.” Why was this amendment to be rejected? I don't just understand the logic of a committee that doesn't know what it does to protect both those interests and others. It's just that everything is done to make people walk and do something about it. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u154	Please, Yuri Romanovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u155	The committee. Thank you, Mr. Jury, really, you've been very actively working on this bill. Thank you. In this case, however, the committee was not guided by the possibility, but rather by the obligation to report it to the public authorities. So in this case, we've been on the road quite hard enough. That's it. So we haven't done worse, we've even stepped up your standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u156	An amendment shall be put to the vote. Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u157	It's about something else. It says here: he can declare. I'm asking the question that this is the right of anyone who wants to. He may declare this in the State Registration Authority. And you write: you have to declare it. It's his right to make that decision. Either he makes a decision here or he makes a decision later. This is because the children were there, they have a common name and so on. I don't have any amendments that aren't from life. They're all coming from citizens who are asking a question, you know? And you say. He should now, not now, say, what then? Do you then take away his constitutional right to do so? Therefore, the word “might” should be written, not “must”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Jury, for everyone in this room and our electorate to understand our discussion, I will read what is being proposed. “The spouse who wishes to re-establish his pre-marital name must declare this in the civil registration body during the state registration of the dissolution of the marriage.” Dear colleagues! In fact, this law is also adopted in order to regulate certain procedures. And if a person wants to restore his last name when it comes to breaking up a marriage, he has to declare it, and what are we debating? Because Mr. Yuri wants the word "should declare it" to replace the word "may declare it" that, from the point of view of legal tension, the difference is "may" and "should"? “Must” gives a clearer edition, makes it impossible for different interpretations, different application of the law, we are fighting for it, Mr. Jury, to apply laws equally. So, to our conviction, by understanding your idea, by supporting your idea, we simply made it more clear on the committee. Here’s all, replacing the word “may” with “should”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u159	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I ask you to agree with the committee's argument, because whoever wants to get their surname back premarital, he must say so. That sounds a little bit clearer, so let's agree with the logic of the committee. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u160	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want you to hear me, at the time he didn't say it, so what does he have to say about it? He's not running out of options, and in an editorial you just wrote down, you're denying him the ability to make that decision even later, so here's the thing, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you get it, right? So I can buy something today, and I can do it after a while, I don't have to do it as a Ukrainian citizen. The exact same comparison here, I can do it today, and I can do it after a while. Let's say that the child grew up or that there were other circumstances there, and then they said all of that, that's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u161	I'll put this amendment to the vote. The point is that breaking up a marriage is not just a thoughtless step. If a person is going to do so, he claims what his last name should be. If later, she has the right to simply change her name in the set order, here I see no logic. But since you insist, let's put this amendment to the vote, it's your legal right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u162	Not enough, I'll add, Vladimir Mikhailovich, change your last name, return to your marriage, man has a right throughout his life. No, it's not a restriction. The only thing I'm gonna do is read it again. “He of the couple who wants to re-establish his pre-marriage name during the breakup of the marriage should declare it,” this is what this is all about. For what will be the organ of civil registration know how to write, whether an old name or a new one, what he had in his marriage. We argue that there are principled things, as in the previous amendment. But this amendment, Yuri Anatoliyovich, is not worth taking up time with our colleagues who are involved in the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u163	Puts to the vote amendment number. No, we've already discussed it. Now we're putting an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u164	No, it's coming off, we're convinced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u165	Yuri Anatolyovich agreed to remove the amendment, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u166	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u167	Amendment 34, Yuri Anatolyevich, you insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u168	Thirty-four is part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u169	No, it's rejected. It is article 24 to complement the new part.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u170	I mean, partially counted, that's the 31st partial, I don't insist on that. And as for the 24th article, I want to say, this is the 34th amendment. Such a proposal, at the same time as the decision to annul an act’s civil status record, shall be taken by the authority, on the basis of a decision or statement to cancel the act’s civil status record, to decide on the removal and return of the revoked certificate to the relevant State registration authority. In the event of non-refoulement of the cancelled testimony, information on its cancellation is published on the official website of the specially authorized central executive authority in the area of the state registration of civil status acts. Do you understand why I'm suggesting this? In order not to go through those documents that were not deleted so that they would not go, they were not referred to anywhere. And apparently absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u171	Please. Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u172	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. So look what the committee is suggesting. In fact, the same content as the amendment, let's say, the cancellation you're talking about is the only thing you're adding those procedures that, if they're not executed, make it possible to use these papers. Do you understand? And we make it clear in the law that they are "cancelled". You know what's special about procedural laws, right? The point is that any action can be charged both in material terms and in procedural terms. And in that case, when you're one step away, when we've been discussing with you about something in there or some letter specifically, if it's not a letter or just a one-step procedure, it's already giving cause to unconvincing, let's say, citizens to complain about it, to cancel it. And so, let's say that they're illegal and they're using one or the other documents. That's why we actually set it off. We have a profile ministry that, based on the possibilities of today's state, will write a procedure and so we'll be able to implement what you're talking about on the one hand and not create a precedent on the other. Mr. Jury, if you haven't returned, and in your case, nothing will happen. You didn't return it, you still have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u173	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u174	So what do you suggest? Searchs to do or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u175	Yuri Romanovich, we're counting on smart people's laws, so they'll come back, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u176	No, it's not. Right, but it's cancelable, the ministry can give you a procedure to regulate it, how they can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u177	It's a deal. So let's put this one on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u178	But we're in the law now giving what might not work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, we're going into controversy. Let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u180	Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u181	What? Well, please, Your Honor, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin, Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want an understanding here. Yuri Romanovich didn't understand one thing. Yeah, they wrote that cancellation, and I say, what if they didn't? So I'm predicting in the law that in the event of the non-refoulement of the cancelled testimony, the information about its cancellation is published on the website of the special authority. That's it. So they know it's been cancelled, it's been cancelled, and it's not returned. I mean, if it goes somewhere, everybody knows it's a document that can't be considered. That's what this is about. So this is what all civilized countries do, what do we do differently from what people do?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. That's right. That's right. That's right. The only thing we believe is that it has to be governed by a law. Because you don't define the body that has the information that needs to be pointed out, how access is going to be made to what is there, if you go there. So you're giving what we can't yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, everything, everything, calmed down. Yuri Romanovich, distinguished colleagues, this should be discussed at the committee meeting. Thus, Amendment 34 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:21:54]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 36 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u186	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also one of the basic positions, as is the one about children who are now lazias in order to hide them. It's a law of lasagna. How not to report it, I've already proved it to you. Now, in the first part of article 26, I propose for violating the requirements of legislation in the area of civil registration of civil status acts, the civil status registration authorities bear civil law, and its employees have substantive, disciplinary, administrative or criminal responsibility in the established law. The project, on the other hand, proposes that only the employees of the bodies should be subject to disciplinary and other responsibilities, and that the body itself, as a State’s responsibility, should not bear, i.e. the constitutional norm on the responsibility of officials and the authority of the State itself, be implemented. Carmagine complements your position again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u188	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The only thing I would like to point out is that the State's responsibility to citizens, to natural persons, to legal persons, to residents, to non-residents is not subject to regulation of this law, and yet it is not denied, since civil law provides for a whole set of measures that, and sanctions that may also be applied to public authorities for certain sanctions. This is a procedural law that applies primarily to those persons who may escape responsibility within those organs. So this is the gap we're closing, you know. And the body will be responsible for civil responsibility, which is provided for by our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I place my vote on Amendment 36 of Yuri Karmazin. Please vote. [[13:24:31]] For-75 All other amendments are included. Please, Yuri Romanovich, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u190	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u191	Yuri Romanovich, committee decision. All the other amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I wanted to thank all the subjects of the legislative initiative, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Deputies, the experts who have worked for a long time on this law, and I wanted to invite you to support this law now, taking into account the amendments that we have considered in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that this law be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. I ask you to prepare for the vote. The proposal for a second reading committee is put to the vote as a whole as a bill of the draft Civil Status Act. Registration number 2673. Please vote. [[13:25:49]] For-166 I remind you, fellow officials, this was the law of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has worked for an extremely long time. They didn't vote. You don't have to. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u194	I'll make an offer. for the second reading again. To the others again. Please vote. [[13:26:25]] For 245 Now, Yuri Romanovich, please tell me, what are we going to do with this law in a second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u195	I think he's just bringing us up. I don't know what to do. Because the law is balanced, considered. I don't know why you don't vote? Oh, they're offended.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u196	All right, the law is about re-reading the second reading. Dear colleagues, we are now scheduled to report to the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of situations related to charges of delinquency of minors. The materials from the commission did not come. I remind you, Your Honor, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting this decision on the establishment of the TSK on this subject, has imposed a temporary commission of inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the allegations of the debasing of minors on 20 October 2009 to hear no later than a month from the date of the adoption of this decision. So this November month was, until this time there is no report. So that's the offer. We'll make it a mission to have the report submitted by the end of the week. If the report is not presented, then we will determine what we should do next. By the end of this plenary week, that is, by January 22, this year. Is there no objection? We're done. Next, we have, honourable colleagues, the Information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of preparation for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. Reporter - Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich Dear colleagues, in order to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the following rules of procedure are proposed: information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine - within 10 minutes, answers to questions from members of the people - within 5 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the national team, we have to finish this consideration at 2.15 p.m. Look, I'm offering you an offer. Next, a report by the head of the interim commission of inquiry is 10 minutes. Still, if that's enough, a discussion. We're continuing our session before. I ask you, Your Honor, to consider the matter for 45 minutes. This is how you put it into consideration: 10 and 5 - 15, 10 minutes, 25 minutes, and the rest for discussion. If there's another procedure, please, I'll put it to the vote, there won't be any support. Please. And the rest is for discussion and we need to adopt another law. Please, Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u197	It's okay, isn't it? First of all, allow me to thank, on behalf of the Ministry of the Family, young people and sports to all political forces for understanding the priority, the importance of the country's preparations for Euro-2012, in particular the main sports arena – the Olympics in Kiev. Undoubtedly, the unity of all branches of government in the preparation tasks has been a guarantee of a positive decision made by UEFA on 11 December last year and the conclusions of UEFA on the preparation of Ukraine and each of the four cities that accept it have an optimistic assessment and determine the serious progress that will be made in the last year in preparing Ukraine for the 2012 European Championship. I must point out that one of the main tasks of the national target programme is the preparation of the National Sports Complex “Olympic”, its stadium for the final match. To date, I must note that all the work in preparation for the national sports arena is carried out according to the construction and assembly schedule, there are no failures, and today the entire team that is preparing the National Olympics for Euro-2012 confirmed its effectiveness and effective work, which is undoubtedly confirmed first by the decision of UEFA to approve the city of Kiev, the Olympics, as the venue of the final Euro-2012 match. During 2009, about 40 per cent of all construction and installation works were completed, including: a fully-built lower tribune, reinforced and restored upper level, completed with the translation of engineering networks; this year, the work started with the construction of the support walls, the carcase, the Estacad and the roadway, the work on the construction of the wi-zone and the killing zone, and the installation of the main part of the bearing structures of the building. In general today, the construction of the Olympic NCC is in the most powerful phase, the work is in 2-3 changes, unbreakable in several areas at the same time. [[With no doubt about the weather]] There are 38 construction organizations, more than 1,000 workers, about 400 engineering and technical workers, over 100 construction units. There is no doubt that with the improvement in weather conditions, there will be an increase in the volume of construction and installation work, although in the project we anticipated and made adjustments to weather conditions. In general, I must point out that we have an understanding and full responsibility for the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission, that we consider it a serious parliamentary control over the implementation of the project, and that we also consider it a body capable of strengthening the overall team on the preparation of the “Olympic” NSC for the Euro-2012. I must say that from the first days we were open to the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission and the National Deputies. I would also like to point out that from the early days of the reconstruction and construction of the stadium, government decisions have been followed by constant monitoring and financial and economic analysis of all management decisions on the site. In order to ensure the interaction of all interested authorities, to coordinate and monitor the progress of construction work, and to adopt the rapid operational decisions required by this project, the Cabinet of Ministers has formed an inter-agency working group on the reconstruction of the Olympic NSC, composed of representatives of all relevant ministries and departments, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Chief Auditor's Office. In addition, Paul Ivanovich Kostenko, head of the group’s professional committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on youth policy, sports, and tourism. Since May 2009, the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to include the “Olympic” in the list of management entities for which a permanent public financial audit of all farm operations is carried out. Each document, each payment, each act performed shall be signed by the contracting authority only after checking and visiting the audit board. In addition, an open-door day has been introduced every month at the Olympic NSC, when representatives of the public, the media can learn about the progress of construction and assembly work, check the quality of the performance of the commitments, and get a plan for the next period. This no doubt helps us to avoid many mistakes and enables us to carry out our assignments in a fine manner. The principle of the NSC Olympic Project Team is openness and transparency. And we are convinced that in this way we will continue to work together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We fully understand the warnings and suggestions expressed in the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Immediately, for each of the 10 tasks defined in the relevant decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, a plan of action was drawn up to implement it. I must point out that most of the assignments made in the corresponding decision are such that they have been performed today, and others who need to have a more objective time before they are executed will no doubt be executed. I am convinced that today the pace of construction and installation works, the professional level of subcontractors, project organisations, and effective cooperation with international consultants and UEFA experts will enable us to fulfil our commitments in a timely manner. So to complete the construction work in December of this year and finally to put the Olympic NSC into operation in June-July 2011, which requires us to do so, the UEFA experts and the commitments we made. Convinced that the NSC “Olympics ” will be adorned by the Championship, it will be adorned by the city of Kiev. Although at each stage of the construction process, design requires unique positions, for there are many objective factors that arise in the construction of the stadium. But there is no doubt that this will be a super-modern stadium of the National Sports Complex “Olympic”, which will fully meet the requirements of the elite class and the requirements of the stadium at which the Euro-2012 final match will take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u198	Any questions for the reporter? Please log in. Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u199	Yuri Alexiyovich, such a banal but correct question about money, about funding. We've heard a lot of different versions here in the Supreme Council, and that the National Bank's spending should be 10 billion. We know that the National Bank directed all 600 of its earnings last year, all of them to a medical problem. Still, what are the sources for the 2012 program today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u200	I am not authorized to be responsible for the entire programme of preparation for the country for the Euro-2012, I have to say only, in the part of the CNC "Olympic" overall project, the general project approved by the government on June 22 and the title provides for a figure of 2 billion 114 million. At the same time, we understand that this figure is going to have to be adjusted in terms of the first quarter and the sum of the construction work done. Today, appropriate expert groups are working. I am sure that here and Parliament can join in with a more objective figure, taking into account all the financial and economic changes that have taken place over the past year. Last year’s funding totalled over one billion dollars, funded by more than 60 percent. At the same time, it didn't affect the pace of construction work. We expect that the necessary funds will be allocated in full this year, more so first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u201	Easy, please, 'cause we've only got five minutes. Because we only heard one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u202	I got it. The first decision on the financing of construction works is now adopted by a government of 50 million, and they will come into the corresponding accounts of the buyer and subcontractors. But the main, crucial moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u203	Smithuh Grigogius Evdzimovich asks a question. Turn off the microphone on the stand. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u204	Yuri Alexiovich! Garbage, Party of Regions. Please tell me, the logic of any construction of any facility, more importantly, this applies to the national program approved by the national program, yes, the target program for the construction of the Olympic Stadium is as follows: the program is so approved, there is the project stage, and after the project stage is TEU. Or together, the project and the TEU are integral parts, because it can't be that the TEU is done, it's estimated at 214 million, then it's done by you, it's approved by the budget of 3 billion 229 million. And these are very big, two big differences. Isn't that the question that this program has been dealt with unprofessionally -- once again, someone deliberately introduced it into such a stage to be able to manipulate large amounts of money -- is two, and who will be responsible for it eventually? Because I'm saying that according to the standards and the rules of construction. The program associated with the introduction of this object is not logically completed. So the project is not approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u205	Thank you for asking. I need to make a few adjustments in the order you were presented. First of all, the techno-economic justification is confirmed, and it was approved at the beginning. in late 2008. It envisioned a two - billion - billion - dollar - million - worth resource. This was followed by the project preparation work and the title of the Olympic NCC, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on June 22, 2009. The project and title preserved a figure that was projected at the TEO of 2 billion 114 million. At the same time, a decision was made regarding the possible adjustment of the cost position. This involved, in particular, changing the course that was taking place, changing prices to building materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u206	Chechev Mikhailo Vasilovich, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u207	Dear Yuri Alekseevich, you have repeatedly stated that in mid-January this year, the first column for the construction of the stadium gallows will be loaded at the NCC. Whether it has been launched to date and whether the construction site is ready to begin the construction of these metal structures. I know that our colleagues from BUT from their vast electoral multibillion dollar election fund Timoshenko have already allocated, they have no money to swear, they have money for a bottle of champagne, and they want to come and break this first column, but they are afraid that either the column will collapse or collapse. So they come to the stadium, smash the column, and if the column or the column doesn't break down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u208	Thank you for asking. I understand that it cares about national MPs and society today. I have to say that the team that is implementing the Olympic NSC projects today in all its parts -- both building and project -- is as professional as possible. And these people have proven by their work that they are able to implement this complex project, which is the right decision, especially the UEFA of December 11, where they confirmed Kiev's right to hold the final match. And I'm going to tell you that the experts of the different kinds that were running the UEFA were countless, and the monitoring was going through every component. As far as mounting the suspension is concerned, the mounting of the suspension takes place according to the graph, with a slight delay that does not generally affect the project, this is particularly due to the fact that we are now carrying out additional control and verification of all the components of the same unique and most important design of the Olympic NCC. Especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u209	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich, please sit down. Ravill Safovich Safiullin's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u210	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! It is difficult to speak after Yuri Alekseevich, our minister, because the Commission's conclusions can be said to be diametrically opposite to what you have just heard. I'll get to the facts. Last week, our commission visited the stadium so we were presented with a new complete timetable for construction and installation. Another 20-30 days ago, we were working on one schedule controlled, and today a completely different schedule was provided. Which one of them to believe in, we don't know honestly, but the differences in time in this schedule by the main types of work are three months more. That's the first one. Under the approved State building standards, such a timetable may be only one for the entire construction period, with the possibility of indicating the advance or the backlog of certain types of work. The following factors were identified from the survey. Delays in the construction and installation of the schedule provided under the following items. Foundations and iron and steel structures, the cold, so-called zone, were actually constructed by 65 per cent of the volume of work. Planned dates of 31.12 last year, you can imagine. In addition, since the foundation of the bed is an integral part of the cold zone, this shows the impossibility of installing the booths under the colon and the columns themselves under the roof. That is, the following types of work are also impossible to perform. Next. It's a VIP zone frame device. At the time of the survey, work data on iron carcases were started, the deadline for their completion on 29 January 2010, which is approximately eight weeks behind schedule, which is the end of March 2010. In turn, the construction of the foundation under the roof of the walls and partitions is also carried for an indefinite period. The installation of metal roof structures, which according to one schedule, was scheduled to begin on 2 November, did not begin on a new schedule, which was given to us on 10 December, but did not change anything. Steel construction was to begin on 3 August, on a new schedule 2.11, what situation so far had been asked, no constructions at the stadium and no columns. At the date of the survey, no column was found on the construction site and there was no equipment to install the columns. According to the project decisions of the master designer, the mounting of columns under the roof shall be made with a crane capacity of 600 tons. At the time of the survey, no crane was found on the construction site and no relevant lease or purchase documents were provided by the general contractor of the commission. Next, according to a metal construction project provided by the Commission, one column is installed within one week and we have 80. So it actually takes 80 weeks to do all these work. Imagine 560 days, so rudely. It is therefore impossible to say that something is being done in time. And now about the uniqueness of the work and how we have selected contractors to do some work. The Commission was particularly concerned about the selection of the contractor for the construction of the gallows over the stadium, which according to the general designer weighs 8.5,000 tons and is the main component of the reconstruction of the Olympic NCC and requires maximum responsibility. These were to begin on 3 August. However, a small-known Dnepropetrov firm, which has never encountered such work and has no level of expertise in its state, was announced by the winner of the tender for the construction of the gallows. As a result of the inspection of the firm's production capacity, the general designer, which is the German side, concluded the following. The Master Professor has no professional experience in the work of such constructions and could therefore simply not be chosen by the successful bidder. Similarly, the German side warned of the most important criterion of the contractor's election, the experience with such structures. I also warned against involving firms without experience in such work. All of this was, of course, ignored and I do not understand the position of Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Vasyunnik, nor of our Ministry, nor of the general contractor of these works of Kievstroy. The Supervisory Board of Kiev also assesses the following: the statute fund of 7,000 grevens, the creditor debt of 8.2 million grevens, and proposed to be determined with organizations with relevant experience. But all the above does not prevent this firm from moving forward. And the following statement, I quote: “The powerful capabilities of the Master Professor company have been carefully studied and considered, and their experience in implementing similar projects has been studied.” Behind this lie is the desire to move any valuable company, Master Prof. It's a campaign that makes everyone happy, all of them, to one. Few people are concerned about the timing, and 200 million bracelets have already been listed to date. Note that the hurry is not in the search for a qualified performer to prepare the stadium in a timely manner, but in the speedy use of the budget. Little more than that, I'll tell you, to date, as much as we haven't addressed and requested documents that would confirm that the hospitality zone, which, in the opinion of our ministry and other partners, should be 45,000 square metres, has not been provided to us. It is not enough that tennis courts exist at all, and the latter are actually to be eliminated and demolished in the implementation of the programme. There is little provision even for an airfield for helicopters, which is estimated at one project, which is estimated at 200,000 bracelets. This is for one single match, the final match. What regulations do we have? We don't know. All of this is done through public funds. I already told you about Master Profi, that's how she won, we're talking about, say, a tender to do these work on the gallows. As a result, Master Profi signed a contract with the German company Khaykes, which was entrusted with all the work on the construction of the bed, i.e. the work on which the tender was awarded, was handed over to the German side. Seven hundred and seventy-seven million, I've already told you. And that's what they won, they didn't hand over to the German side, and that's all silence. And our Minister declares that everything is in time. I told you, so the roofing was reported to begin on 3 August of this year. To date, again, I'd like to say that our commission went out to meet the subject, not to get to know each other last week, but just to investigate, we've been hiring specialists. These are the opinions of the professionals. Work has not been done in appropriate lines, construction and installation, cold zone premises, VIP areas and beds. In fact, 20 per cent of the construction work was carried out. You heard Yuri Aleksevich say 40 were executed. So experts say 20 percent. The underfunding for 2009 was 395 million bracelets. Nowhere, first of all, was any of the Ministry's representatives mentioned this at all. The overall backlog of the construction and installation schedule for the reconstruction of the Olympic NCC is approximately 5 months, according to experts. Here's the data from our commission. I've got everything, Alexander Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u211	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, it has indeed been a great honour for our country to hold the final phase of the Euro-2012 phase. And, I think, here, each of us, and above all, the power we hold, must be patriots and do everything we can to make Ukraine prepare for this tournament, so that we can show both beauty and power, and hospitality, and culture, and the social sphere, and the beautiful stadiums of that public, the global public that will come to Ukraine and thus further strengthen the image, the positive image in the international arena. Unfortunately, though, we do not have the patriots to a greater extent than those in power. The soul and money have been invested both in Donetsk and in Kharkiv and in Dnepropetrovsk, I mean, both Mr. Colomoysky and, above all, Renata Leonidovich Ahemtov in Donetsk, and Mr. Jaroslavski in Harkov, where the soul, money and shining stadiums are made. It's really patriotism, not in words, but in fact, none of them on television, in the press, to say that they weren't more chatty, but people were doing things and doing things. Thank you and a low gift. And now the government is building in Kiev, and what is the government? It's a state execution, two years or three years, so to speak, the tractors in the stadium were driving, driving, and now they're probably going to come out of the groundwork, think, the columns should be in place, and there's no column, so the firms are changing, and there's no reason. One reason, one reason. And here I am asking a question and let us ask ourselves a question, and what prevents the Government in Kiev, too, from showing patriotism and also taking an example, I would say, from the true patriots: from Ahemtova, Yaroslavski, Kolomoyski – and do the same with the stadium in Kiev. What's in the way? What are the reasons? I thought, first of all, well, I think there are three reasons. One, I thought, was just a government headed by Timoshenko sabotaging the stadium and thus sabotaging the Euro-2012 event. I don't think so. Well, I can't put a label on a saboteur, a saboteur to Julia Vladimirovne. She probably doesn't sabotage. Then another reason is the absolute inability to lead colossal construction. Non-professionalism. Yeah. It's closer. But there is also a third reason — that it is a tremendous skill to make money. That's probably what's important. Therefore, if three reasons are sabotage, inability to lead, and ability to steal, then the last two are the main reasons. They're brilliantly changing contractors to get the corresponding "returns" without thinking about the case. Little by little, they are unable to organize the work and eventually they are ruining the country's main structure. I pray to God that it will come sooner on 7 February. Viktor Fedorovic will once conduct a “planner” at the stadium and we will build the stadium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u213	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich. From the hall. Teeth will be knocked out?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u214	[[Maybe, but not now.]] . Dear colleagues! I'm not a major sports expert, of course, but I've built something in my life other than my own home. I can tell you that you know the formula of physics, so if Yuri Klukkowski complements me, I specifically call my last name, he knows physics. Work is equal time to power, right? - The physical formula. So there's no work from the construction of the stadium, that is, physics, elementary physics. There was no power because there were questionable tenders because there were questionable leaders with three nationalities: Panama, Israel and Russia. Where are these leaders now? The D.A. can't find anyone. So this is the construction officer. Who will be responsible for these estimates of form-2. What write-offs were these estimates? Not surprisingly, our colleagues, Ravil Safovich Safiullin, who led the commission, revealed all these shortcomings. That's the kind of adage that's been passed and it's for government money. It was not a gift today to say that where a private investor was working, long ago, stadiums had been built, jobs had been created, infrastructure had been created. I've seen many of you at an invitation in Donetsk at the opening of the stadium. This stadium is built without a penny of budget money. This stadium has given us jobs today. As a business entity, as a legal entity, he is a taxpayer, including local. What there is a income tax you know what our cities and villages exist for. Here's an example. The same example in Harkov, the same example in Dnipropetrovsk. Unfortunately, there is no such example in Kiev, unfortunately. So maybe with you, there's all the smart people sitting here, we're creating a stock society, 450 shareholders -- we're the people's deputies, we're dividing the shares of this stadium. Each of us will make at least 20 copies. Count 450 by 20, and who can do more, and I'm sure there might be shareholders in this room that will bring in more than 20 copies. So maybe we can build a public stock company. Because, unfortunately, the State is not in a position to build today. What is a State? According to classical language, philosophically, the dialectic state is just a superstructure. The basis is the economy, the people. But when people don't want to, and the economy doesn't want to, we have this derivative, so we have an out-of-work stadium with the money running. And the Minister came out, excused. He doesn't even know what to say. Why? Because as a minister, as an official, he has no influence on the construction process. It was a long time ago, maybe with him. Then it must be asked whether he is an accomplice to Yuri Pavlenko or not, or not, an accomplice to this nightmare, which is called the construction of the stadium. Actually, I want to end this positive. You know, it's a good thing the Euro will be, and it'll be a good thing. But the stadium with you is gonna be our big shame if we don't build it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u215	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to come out and express my point of view as to what is happening in the capital city and in the center of the capital city of Ukraine that want to build. Of course, the idea, like all of us, and the whole of Ukraine's council, because we have a final part to go through in Kiev, is really going to be a holiday. Because the last holiday was the Olympics in the '80s, when some of the more or less international sports, so to speak, events were of that significance in Kiev. And of course, as Ukrainian citizens, we should be proud, little to help, if you want, even to have Saturdays there, with the participation of national MPs. But what is happening? Who is doing this great, national program? Some, I'm sorry, passersby, as my colleagues said, are taking a non-professional approach, causing significant damage to the state and managing the process. I'm looking, our esteemed minister is speaking, and then I'm sitting, la-la, hi-hi in the towers, and he doesn't even listen to what he's being told. But thank our colleague Safiullin for showing you what you're doing. Of course, we or our political power will have to complete this process, and, of course, we will be forced to be like the national MPs who will be funded by additional budget flows, how the citizens will have to finish, we want to save for ourselves, for our population, as you know, the person we've dealt with, but once you. I'm not saying that tenders are being made, and you know which vertical is being built, one organization: you could steal. People aren't professional, you're not supposed to get jobs. How can I give the most serious design, have a little attitude toward construction, and have in my life been given to an organization that has neither the expertise nor the capacity to produce nor the experience of working on the most complex building in Ukraine today? In what way, who was guided, what sort of tender, who would be responsible? Why is the prosecution silent, why are other authorities silent? Why is GASK not present in Kiev or at the Ministry of Construction and does not control this issue, and why? Taken away? So the director of GASKA has to say, or write, or contact the press that has been removed, an organization that is the only one that controls the construction that should control this process. And Pauline is sitting, grinning! And he knows why he's avoiding it? But he says I'm going to get shot tomorrow, I'm a temporary person, I haven't answered, and I'm not responsible for anything! And others will finish it all equally; I took my job, I took my peak, I set up my people, I won the tender, and I left. And remember my words, that is what will happen. But unfortunately, I would like to say to those who have done so to the Olympics, who are making money on the crumbs of the state, to the authority of States that are not being patriotic about this project at all. We'll have to answer that. And we're going to initiate. And in our government, in our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u217	Finish up. Just be quick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u218	And it's not like someone's going to step into the responsibility of national major projects that we're presenting ourselves as a civilized European country. There will be no such thing! Remember this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u219	School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u220	Dear TV setters, radio audiences! Dear community! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Lord Chairman! It is a good thing that we are considering construction issues. Well, I'll say, National Stadium, because it's called the Olympics. It's very flawed and necessary, I think, a commission was created in Parliament. If I count, I don't remember how many there are, well, a lot more than 2 tens, that's one of the constructive ones. I'll tell you more. Whatever evil words may sound from the rostrum, they are not entirely competent, because in construction and culture everyone understands. Well, basically who has less relation to construction and medicine, they say. Well, in medicine, it's much less. But no less. Everybody's still working out in football, too. Everyone knows which football players should be put to the coach and what the problem is, but everyone understands that the responsibility lies with the one who is responsible. And whatever happens, the minister took responsibility, and he took all the claims that were made here, I think, heard and heard. And I think, really, the process is going on clearly any way, and when we talk about commissions that are being created in Parliament, they also have to be created and created to make things more transparent. I think it's got to be done. Tomorrow and tomorrow I'm going to make a decision eventually to take off the question at least before the second round of elections, and what's going on with those of us, and I've forgotten: 140 hectares or 142 hectares. We talk about this a lot, but we have to put a dot on this. Either they were donated by the State for some merit to the former Prime Minister, or he took this “Megiria” without permission from the State. Therefore, under the circumstances, we must be as if without double standards both in this commission of inquiry and in all subsequent ones. So I encourage tomorrow to make a decision -- and to listen, to clarify and to make a clear situation on these 140 hectares. Because it was suggested, of course, I think, a few copies of it would be a joke. So I think if you sell 140 of those 142 hectares at auction, if that's allowed by the state, we're going to build more than one stadium. On the subject of today’s, I would like to emphasize, again, that we should be happy to be able to discuss the problems that exist in the State and the shortcomings. I'm sure there's no construction without flaws. I am also sure that tenders are not to be won by firms that do not have the ability to make a full 100 percent or 90 percent of the construction of an object. Clearly, the contractor is still required to hire structures in those in which he is not entirely competent. And it's a good thing we heard that. And I'm sure the Ministry will come to the right conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-20-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, the discussion of information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is concluded. The morning plenary session is closed. The next plenary session will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m.
