ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system, please. [[10:00:58]] They registered in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! On April 10, 2010, the president of the Republic of Poland, who was on board the head of the Polish State, Lech Kaczynski and his wife, the leading Polish politicians and public figures, the leaders of the armed forces, and the clergy, arrived near Smolensk. Death has claimed prominent political and state officials from the Republic of Poland, who have made considerable efforts to deepen the friendly Ukrainian-Polish relations and support Ukrainian interests in the international arena. It is particularly bitter and difficult for all of us to realize that our colleagues, MPs and senators of the Polish Parliament, among them: the Deputy Marshal of the Seima of the Republic of Poland, the co-chair of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and Poland Jerzy Smagdinsky, the Deputy Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the Deputy Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Kristina Bohene, the members of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and Poland, as well as the Polish-Ukrainian Parliamentary Group of the Seima and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Please honor the memory of all those who died by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from March 30 to April 2, 2010. There were five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They discussed 29 issues of the agenda, 116 regulations were adopted, 6 bills were adopted on the basis, 6 bills and 26 draft regulations were rejected. Dear colleagues, your attention. In connection with the failure to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 87, part 8, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the recommendation of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce the suspension of the powers of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich, and the identification and detection of persons responsible for the delay in the investigation of the criminal case and the transfer of its materials to court. And another announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal signature, I hereby report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the coalition of MPs “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the convening of Ivanenko Vladimir Grigorovich. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Tuesday, authorized factions, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u2	You said "sered."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u3	Names on the board, please. National Deputy Kozub, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next. From the faction of the Party of Regions, who will be speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u4	National MP Matvienko, please. Deputy of the People's Republic of Macedonia, Vladimir MacKeenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u5	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, as you know, the government is working to ensure that the country receives a strong anti-crisis, realistic, balanced, major, financial document with a powerful component of development deregulation in which the innovation and investment model is being restored. Although the budget is designed to be as realistic as possible, the government is fully prepared to implement all the social elements of the President's pre-election programme. On the other hand, the main priority of the budget is to dominate the innovation and investment model. We have to make the country the most dynamic building, industrial, scientific site in the SND countries. The government has deferred for some time the presentation of the State Budget project for 2010 after the two-year destruction of the country by the predecessors. Budgeting is extremely difficult. All economic processes destroyed, budget architecture destroyed, expenditure and income adjusted. This is the result of the destructive budget policy of the previous government. The Government of Ukraine has postponed consideration of the draft budget through negotiations to reduce the price of Russian gas for the current year. The previous government has made the country so priced that our government is forced to assist the mining and metallurgical complex, the chemical industry and the residential and utility industries, as well as the direct NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. And this support places an additional burden on the state budget. The government is focused on investment, and foreign investors, when they saw that a professional, professional team and a balanced, solid policy of all branches of government had emerged, sought to invest in the country as quickly as possible. To accelerate innovation, the government has set up a State Committee on Innovation and Technology. Strategic development programmes are provided to the country. In two weeks, the country will finally know where it is going and what reforms it is doing. The government's strategic development programme opens up a new policy course and launches structural reforms. The country is finally going to have a clear development plan in three stages: first, order and exit from the crisis; second, accelerated economic growth; and third, the movement of GDP into the high-tech sector. The social protection of veterans will be substantially enhanced by the 65th anniversary of Victory. Money relief for disabled persons and veterans of the Great Homeland War has been doubled. The talk of the opposition about the state's default is in mind. There is no reason for this. The government funds salaries and pensions on time, the Naftogazu budget is balanced, normal. There's VAT damages. Standards of professional leadership are being restored. Information on the treasury remains is available to the public again, and the rational management of resources has increased the negotiable costs of the State four times. Two key components of government's social and innovation investment policies will already be implemented in the 2010 budget. In the medium term, the Cabinet of Ministers is planning to double the general assimilation of science. The effectiveness of these decisions will be felt after two or three years when we see economic growth and this growth will be more qualitative, durable and resistant to external influences. In particular, I want to stop at the cabal gas agreements signed by the previous government. Now, the price of imported gas is $334 per thousand cubic metres of gas, which requires an extra three and a half billion dollars a year compared to the average European price. Thus, limited crises distract government funds from the support of pensioners, orphans, and many families, and are channelled into gas payments. Taking into account such a gas price in the budget calculations, the first thing about the amount of compensation for NAC Naftogaz is that the difference in gas prices is virtually impossible to get on the budget deficit declared by the International Monetary Fund, which would allow as quickly as possible to obtain fairly cheap IMF loans. In addition, intensifying cooperation between Ukraine and the IMF will help restore investor confidence. So negotiations are now actively continuing at a higher level, both with the Russian Federation and with the International Monetary Fund. And taking into account the results of these negotiations, the State Budget for 2010 is being finalized. We hope that in the near future the State budget bill will come to Parliament along with Ukraine's Social and Economic Development Programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Next up will be Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u7	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll start with the public: the presidential election in Ukraine is over. Based on basic logic, political debates, political debates, the political controversy is long overdue for social and, above all, public life. This is caused by the systemic and deep nature of Ukraine’s economic problems. The trouble is that the dominant of all politics on cave hills in Kiev has led us to realize that we have not fully realized the depth of the political downturn. Shortening real-economy lending has had a negative impact on the level of sufficiency of entrepreneurship, organizations, reduction of their ability and profit. The delay in building the infrastructure base, which is geared towards ensuring medium and small business access to financial, innovation and human development resources, has led to a decrease in the potential for economic recovery. Instead, last year’s negative balance of payments amounted to nearly $14 billion, but it has nothing to cover, for only a government debt of $40 billion. In 2009, industry did not earn 40 percent of its profits, and direct investment in the economy declined two and two tenths. No wonder many in the world view the Ukrainian economy as marginal. As a result, the hope that the better world conditions will change is clearly exaggerated. As an export and raw market, we use outdated technologies. Even in agriculture we have not only higher prices for food products than in Poland, where, by the way, wages are much higher, but we are already importing traditional agricultural goods for Ukraine. More than the market, we're also not as interested in transnational corporations. Population consumption is so low, and corruption is so high that it is more convenient for some to open their representations in Africa than it is for European Ukraine. By this time the political opposition of the elite had begun to find its reflection among the electorate. The Ukrainian society, which has always been characterized by tolerance, wisdom, balance, purposefully imposes uncharacteristic strategies on it. The format “All is foreign”, the framework of black and white perception. And this symbolic opposition is already bearing fruit. Opposition is real. Although it is still vital and fortunately bloodless, no one can stop the information pressure. The same figures, the same myths of choosing one another, and the secondaryity of others continue to be imposed. Accordingly, tomorrow we can impose entirely different dimensions of conflict on society. And paradox. This conflict is based on the fact that the economic programmes of most parliamentary representatives do not differ significantly. Everyone's first interest in the people. In programs, every force stands for accelerating the exit from the crisis, increasing the welfare of the population, supporting small and medium-sized businesses, optimizing taxes. Instead, the opposition is based on factors that, on a scale of interest, are in the last place and have no bearing on the economy. Finally, we should all agree that the conflict of political interests now, as never before, should be replaced by competition in economic programmes. In view of what has been said, the faction of the “Block of Lithuania” proposes. First. Set a plenary day when the government will provide a complete picture of the current state of the Ukrainian economy. Then listen to the analysis report of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which focuses on the key positions of the two reports of the Academy of Sciences that have already been made following the insistence of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. To do everything possible and impossible to ensure that by May 1, the State budget of Ukraine was accepted by the Supreme Council. And the third. Taking into account that 41 drafts that were not considered in the last plenary week, 26 of them are national deputies representing the opposition to move to a normal legislative process for all, regardless of political commands and installations. Oh, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u8	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u9	Once again, let's move on to a normal legislative process, regardless of what the political structures are and what the political teams are giving out. Because another balance in Parliament's work is damaging, it's damaging the economy, not in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u10	National MP Mikola Kravchenko from the Communist faction. Please, your performance. Alexander Teshenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It is unlikely that I will tell the news that the crisis has increased the decline in production and, as a result, that there is a serious burden on Ukraine's budget to date. In view of the economic crisis, it is a startling surprise and stifling concern in the coffeehouses that some regional law enforcement structures are still surrounded by law-abiding enterprises, businesses that are mostly urbanized with the full social burden. It's like there's not a sharp increase in crime in the country, it's been a bit of a shadow since the '90s, that law enforcement has nothing to do with it. Let me give you an example. I'm calling it the raider, the environmental interregional prosecutor. [[Dnepropetrovsk oblast]] As a result of the checks they conducted, on 21 September 2009 an order was issued by the investigator of the Krivorozh Interregional Environmental Prosecutor's Office of Nikulnikova to refuse to institute a criminal case for the absence of a criminal offence in the actions of the H.O.S. Office of the Christophorov Plant. Despite this, on 6 October 2009, the interregional environmental prosecutor, Sokol, showed an enviable tenacity of another kind. Nevertheless, the prosecution is once again initiating, but at the same time as the company's audited activities. On 29 and 30 October 2009, a search was carried out in the plant's administrative premises, and only in the course of which criminal proceedings were brought. During the search by prosecutors and police forces involved in co-operation under the reliable cover of the Birkut Special Unit, the police will remove all documents, originals and copies without being selected and will be imported without a receipt, without drawing up the relevant documents. As a result of the heroic actions of the Krivoroz Interregional Prosecutor's Office, production of products at the factory has been halted since 29 October 2009, and the plant has been completely shut down. To date, residents of the settlement of Christopherovka and surrounding settlements have been unemployed for 5 months. I've been trying to help this factory for five months as a national deputy. The envious persistence with which the prosecution has rejected my requests is, of course, not a mere surprise, but a fear that impunity has already reached its peak. I request the Office of the Attorney-General, the Attorney-General and the newly appointed Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to conduct an objective analysis of the actions of subordinate units in the regions of the country and to strictly prevent the destruction of law-abiding taxpayers, irrespective of the form of their property. This task will be supported by the recently adopted Ukrainian Supreme Council Act on the Principles of Preventing and Resisting Corruption. In particular, the criminal case brought against the plant must be dealt with as soon as possible. A comprehensive investigation is required separately into the work of the Criworodsky interregional environmental prosecutor's office, both in criminal proceedings and in the investigation of the abuses detected. I would like to say that this example that I have cited is simply an example of the work that the Public Prosecutor's Office is doing today. Six of these cases are under my control today, and for which I have been able to dispel them, to protect labour groups from raids by raids. Dear colleagues, we are well aware that the budget is being budgeted in advance, that the budget is being filled with production. And if we go after such enterprises, we will eventually have a bubble hole in the income part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u12	Have you lost someone? Alexander Steshenko, faction of “Block. ” Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, I'm sorry, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u13	Dear voters, dear colleagues, dear Head! First of all, on behalf of our faction, I want to join the words of deep compassion to the friendly Polish people for the enormous tragedy. We sincerely share the tribulation and express our words of support to those whose lives have been so tragic and premature. Regarding what is happening in our country, the faction authorized me to declare the following. First, the country under the terms of stability and the incomprehensible decision of the highest legal institution began to live, not under the Constitution, but under the Supreme Council’s Rules. A few weeks ago, even after not being able to become law, it was already changed by the authors into ignorance, within minutes included in the agenda, accepted, instantly signed, and the next day we all woke up in another country where the Constitution turned out to be useless. It is known that appetite comes when you eat. Thus, even more exotic innovations have been prepared. Read them and do not be surprised, for these things will be voted in the hall and signed immediately, and the next morning we will wake up again in another country. Since ancient times, there has been such a truth: Power corrupts, absolute power corrupts completely. We are now witnessing, as in a very short period of unanimity, the whole central vertical, the local authority, the law enforcement system, the controlled media, and so on. It's becoming more and more obvious, there's a very dangerous monopolization of power in the country, where no one, including the opposition, will have any control. I want to remind you, when the BUT, with other political forces, created a democratic coalition, we were initiating the opposition to the effective mechanisms of government control. It is our leader who has offered the opposition to the position of First Vice - Chief of the Council, the Key Control Committees, the Court of Auditors, as it already provides for today’s law. And you've got it all, colleagues, full. So why don't you switch roles today? Because this boomerang is going to work against you sooner or later. Second, we were accused of blocking the budget process. We strongly refute these baseless accusations. An active government promised that by April 11, a budget for 2010 and its programme would be presented to the Supreme Council. There's nothing to it. Clearly, the State budget has nothing to do with the price of energy; the gas has nothing to do with it. Remember, Timoshenko's government at an extremely difficult time when the country was experiencing a devastating crisis, had a draft budget in time, and was budgeted for gas from Russia, and prices in Ukraine were not raised either for the population or for the industry. In doing so, wages, pensions, scholarships were paid on time and clearly. So what's the point of blocking the rostrum? On the contrary, we demand an urgent and immediate introduction of the draft budget to Parliament because we, and more and millions of families, are very interested in whether there will be a promise of double aid for the birth of a child, child rearing to adulthood, low-income families, and the implementation of so-called social standards, of course without including a printer. Third, according to the law, opposition has the right to form a day order for Wednesday. Our faction, together with the opposition government, has developed and passed a number of bills in due time, not yet included. Our faction therefore urges us to reconsider our bills: the release of help for families and children, numbers 6165, 6167, and the increase in aid for low - income citizens, number 1416. Next, much has been said about the need to fight corruption. Instead, by the initiative of the new majority, the introduction of these laws was postponed. So we urge you to consider our bill -- 6279. Next, during the election campaign, there were promises to lower taxes, and for a small business there were no five - year vacations at all, but no legislative initiative, a colleague, came from you. So we suggest that we consider our bills that address these problems: 6166, 6163, 6207. And in order to protect low-income populations at this time, we propose to consider and adopt a law that deals with the formation of national anti-crisis food and medical baskets for citizens -- 6164. These and a number of other bills have been drafted, prepared by the faction, and we hope that the Hall will review them and support them immediately. And tell us now what is unconstructive about our opposition? Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u14	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, dear fellow citizens! Ukraine survived the black day of the country’s judicial system last week. The Constitutional Court allowed the people’s deputies to participate individually in the parliamentary coalition. Thus, the governing coalition and government were legitimized on the basis of this questionable decision. Both experts and politicians point out that it contains a wide range of points that challenge its objectivity and impartiality, the ability of the Constitutional Court to resist political influences. This decision is in direct contravention of another decision of the Constitutional Court of September 17, 2008. The Constitutional Court has experienced mediocre political pressure because the creation of a coalition and the formation of a new government have been publicly called by the highest authorities and leaders of the Party of Regions a necessary way of stabilizing the situation in Ukraine. In fact, the court gave indulgence to individual deputies to violate the will of the electorate. Because citizens voted for political parties or blocs, their pre-election programs, not for individual deputies. In addition, this decision by the Constitutional Court can stimulate the further spread of political corruption in Parliament. And in this context, statements by some politicians about a supposed return to the MPs of freedom of action sound very ambiguous. It is corruption that is or is not a major obstacle to the economic reforms that are needed so much by Ukraine and which have been discussed so much during the electoral campaign. But the distribution of power and authority and part of the opposition have forgotten about the economy and the reforms. Six months ago, I drew up economic measures for Ukraine from this rostrum. Reforms cannot be postponed. Yes, they are not easy; they need to be unpopular. The government and the coalition have every opportunity to do so, but they have not yet proposed any anti-crisis bills or a package of economic changes. We hear promises of a government-budget action programme, but there are no relevant bills and draft regulations in Parliament so far. In principle, we should also understand that in the draft agenda and this is the proposal of our faction, much of it, the majority of the agenda should include economic issues and social issues at this difficult time. In general, politicians need to move away from the real and virtual distribution of positions and focus their efforts on reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. With regard to the proposals made in the statements made by the deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, April 13. A draft regulation amending certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the number and composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call]] [[Registration number 6246]] The reporter is Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, since we have agreed today that we have many drafts, I will put to the vote to consider this issue under a reduced procedure. Bill 6246, this is a draft decree amending certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the number and composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call]] Please vote. [[10:31:23]] For 197 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please, this is 6246 -- the committee decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! At its meeting, the Committee considered the draft regulation. The essence of this is that the faction from which the people's deputies have left is that new people's deputies have been sent to the places of their departed colleagues who have gone to work in the executive branch. Any changes, with the exception of the addition of deputies to the Judicial Reform Committee, to Vlasenko and to our colleague from Our Ukraine. There are no other changes in principle. In this vote, the draft regulation respects the quota representation that was reached in the formation of the Supreme Council of the current convening and implements the agreements reached between the faction leaders in this formation. Thank you. Please support the decision, this draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u18	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, give me these materials. Have a seat. The point is that 197 deputies voted in favour of the reduced procedure, please sign up for the discussion. Sign up for the discussion, dear colleagues, please. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Hassuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u19	May I have Mr. Laishka's word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, please. And Moses is handing over the right to speak, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, your suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified procedure seems to me not to be valid. Because our faction on this point of compliance with the provisions of the opposing control law requires you to consider this issue, and you're addressing it, so let's push it down, quickly, we won't even be able to ask a question. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, to Ephraim, is a reporter for this matter. Alexander Sergiyovich, you have a question! First of all, you're talking about compliance with the quota principle, but in many committees, including the budget that I represent, many of our deputies have come out and now, if you're proposing this quota principle, we need to bring our deputies into these committees, both in the budget committee and in the regulatory committee and in other committees. There's no decision in that draft that you're proposing. You also propose a draft decision to select the heads of committees, particularly freedom of speech and others, but this committee, when you were in opposition, belonged to the opposition, the leadership of this committee. Why are you taking him again today? What freedom of speech is involved? When you have a national television company, you have district television companies, and you have a committee to control these companies, so do you. In addition, there is the Law on the Rules that we voted for along with you. The Law of the Rules clearly stipulates that the opposition is followed by certain committees or committees. These are not committees for us to take up positions. Thanks to God, we have enough of those positions. These are committees that allow the opposition to control power, that's what this is about. If you say you need positions, our faction has made a decision, today the head of the faction, John Kirilenko, has issued a statement by the heads of the committees of today, which embraces these positions, please give you these positions, but allow the opposition to control power. I am speaking to Mr. Yanukovic, President of Ukraine, who is now on a mission in the United States and is obviously meeting with the President of the United States about these minutes, this is a test for Yanukovic, personally for him, a test of democracy in which we live. If the authorities are in power, the present - day authorities are depriving them of the power to control it. This is a testimony to the non-democracy of power. Is Janukovich and the authorities generally in need of such an assessment of today’s authority around the world? So, Alexandre Sergiyovich, buckle up your horses, stop, look around, and don't discredit yourself or power or the country in general in front of the democratic world. There are rights of opposition set forth in the Law on the Rules, let us be clear about this law. Because, as Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko said, it's going to hit you with a boomerang. In six months, you'll be back in opposition, and we'll see what you'll be doing here when you're in opposition, how you'll put your ears on your back and ask us to return to power, so that we can abide by the law. You do not want to be reminded of how you acted when you were in power. Therefore, please take and give up these control functions as provided by the Rules of Procedure Act in part of the opposition’s control functions. To prevent you from finally usurping this authority, the opposition has the power to control it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you once again to speak to us about our agreement on the Conciliation Council. In fact, your offer is entirely rational. Consider today the employment of the national deputies who have just adopted the oath. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, look at the first stage today, but the first stage is not ready. Our proposals, which we made to the first stage, i.e. the distribution of deputies by committee, and especially parity, i.e. proportional representation on committees, are not taken into account by the opposition to the coalition. Unaccounted for by either the budget committee or the regulatory committee, this cannot be allowed. We think the question is unprepared. Therefore, we ask that he be transferred to the afternoon. Vladimir Mikhailovich, from the afternoon shift procedure, and further consultations. We need parity at least on the four committees of the Supreme Council. You can't let that happen, it's never happened in the history of the Supreme Council. After lunch, we have to postpone voting on this issue, once we have settled the very first level of resolution, on the part of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u24	Alexander Ephraim, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! I didn't want to waste time on the report because we agreed on the Conciliation Board with you, and I think it's an axiom. You stated that you would like to consider your participation in the leadership of the Freedom of Speech Committee. We agreed and Vladimir Mihajlovich confirmed that there would be no vote on this committee today. I hope in the vote he'll repeat our agreement that we have. The next few moments. On those committees that were distributed. Ivan Grigorović, we have agreed with you that deputies who have been in and out of work for two weeks now cannot even move the budget process to be considered because the committees are not staffed. We are establishing them today and they are working on these committees. As far as further dissemination is concerned. As soon as you make your proposals on the committees concerned, we have 18 more deputies leaving these committees on Friday, and we will negotiate with you on the basis of your capabilities and your proposals. I would therefore like not to block the decision-making process today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u26	Thank you. All of it. Dear colleagues! Now before the vote. Dear colleagues! We agreed with you in this way, and it was as if we had found a common language. That today the committee on freedom of speech is debated in this draft decree. So we're removing it. Just a minute. I beg of you, my dear colleague. We delete this position in which it refers to the appointment of the head of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. Next. We have agreed with you, Your Honor, that we will make the right decision. The committees that are the subject of the discussion are still holding a dialogue, usually involving the equal factions and the BUT Party of Regions and Factions. They agreed on the position on the next committee - they brought it up for consideration. In this way we will act so as not to paralyze the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u27	There is no proposal for a decision anymore. So this is how we agreed that those questions that don't raise objections are actually put to the vote. And with that in mind, please. I'm asking you, Oleg, you don't have to. Dear colleague, after removing from the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the position on the appointment of Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyovna as chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6246]] [[on the number and composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call]] Please vote. [[10:42:23]] For 234 The solution. I see, one minute, the decision is made. Now, please, Santa. The factions, please. Please print in factions so you can see. Region Party – 169, "Club of Timoshenko" – 11, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 17, non-fractional – 4. Decision taken. Mikola Catherinechuk, then Oleg Lazko, and we're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u28	The European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, now the Supreme Council is working in an unconstitutional manner, violating the Constitution because MPs do not vote personally. Since our faction, we have been asked to block all the MP cards that are not in the hall today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u30	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, well, we have just voted in favour of a decree that introduced the new three members instead of the ones who broke out. But when we talked about parity, we meant that the faction of Yulia Timoshenko has two vacancies on the budget committee that are not filled today. Likewise, in other committees, we have vacancies. And we gave our suggestions to Mr. Ephraim on this subject, and the MPs' statements are about moving to these committees. If you're talking about parity on committees, the more we have a budget, the budget is said to be a consideration of the day before, why are we bringing people from power to this committee, and not from the opposition? Where is your promised parity? We don't speak for the committee heads. We speak for our vacancies on these committees, which are free, which we have the right to fill. To preserve the parity between opposition and power.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u31	Thank you. I ask the Regulatory Committee once again, and the Head of the Regulatory Committee, to identify and give each faction the possibility of its quota representation on all committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so that each faction can combine, according to its number, the real processes that are going on with the possibilities that we have. And they made the right draft decision. I think it's going to normalize all of our contradictions. Dear colleagues! In the course of the discussion, I failed to fulfill another responsibility, not declaring that today we had the birthday of our colleagues, national deputies Bolura and Illashov. Please welcome your colleagues and wish you good health and success at work. Dear colleagues! Since we were having a discussion at the Conciliation Council on the grounds that we were not able to consider the bills that were being tabled for the plenary week, I suggested that we put to the vote the proposal that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should continue until the conclusion of the debate on Tuesday's issues. Obviously, this will be the right thing to do. I'm voting on this proposal. On the continuation of the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of Tuesday’s scheduled discussions, April 13. Please vote. [[10:46:27]] For-84 According to factions, please the Party of the Regions – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 55, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 7, Communist faction – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 2. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation is being announced for consideration. [[on dividend taxation]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. Is there a Yuri Vasilovich? Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. What's the offer? Please state your offer. Our colleague's proposal is to consider a simplified procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:47:38]] For-187 Decision taken. Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation has been developed with the aim of resolving the following issues. First of all, it is necessary to bring the current legislation of Ukraine to the generally accepted international standards contained in the international treaties on the avoidance of double taxation and the principles of the global tax code. Secondly, creating incentives for return to Ukraine of the currency that residents receive in the form of dividends from non-residents. Today, in Ukraine, there are tax inequalities in the distribution of income to an enterprise that has 20 percent or more of the status capital of other enterprises. Thus, the parent company is the majority of its income, more than 90 percent of which, in the form of dividends paid by subsidiaries, no longer pays its owners an advance on income tax. With a view to eliminating the unwarranted advantages granted to individual enterprises, it is proposed that the standard of the world tax code be introduced into the Ukrainian legislation, according to which all enterprises that own 20 percent or more of the statutory capital of other enterprises are obliged to keep separate accounts of the dividends received and paid. The bill also proposes to apply this rule to dividends that come from nonresidents in Ukraine. Today, there are major problems with the return of investment income to Ukraine. Yes, the non-resident dividends should be taxed at a rate or 25 percent if there is no double taxation agreement, or 15-20 percent if such an international agreement is concluded. In this regard, taxpayers are not interested in receiving income from outside Ukraine. In turn, the introduction of the bill will encourage decisions to channel dividends rather than recapitalisation or other foreign targets. So the money is going to go back to Ukraine, it's being used in the Ukrainian economy, and it's not going to stay abroad, and it's going to work for other countries that, by the way, have been much easier to cope with the global financial crisis and have no currency shortages like Ukraine. Acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u34	will not result in the loss of the budget. And last of all, I ask you to support the bill and vote on it in the first reading and in preparation for the second reading on a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u35	Thank you. From the Committee of Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The reporter has already provided you with information about the purpose of this bill. The changes made to the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation can be divided into two components: proposals related to change, specificities in the internal taxation of dividends for residents, and non-residents receiving dividends outside Ukraine. It's about internal taxation. It is proposed to amend subsection 7.8.5 of the law, which defines where no advance income tax is paid. Yes, according to the applicable sub-item, this sub-item is not a tax payer’s contribution if more than 90 percent of the income is made up of dividends received from the legal profession associated with such a taxpayer. Well, rudely, from my daughter. It is proposed that the payment of the advance tax on the income of the tax payer who receives dividends from the persons involved, but without being bound to the amount of the tax received, be exempted. bound dividends as a rule of law. But the law does not provide for tax on dividends that exceed the amount of dividends received by the payer. This amount of excess, we think, should be taxed in general order. As for taxation of dividends coming from abroad. is proposed to exempt from tax dividends received by the payer from nonresidents who are also under the control of the resident tax payer. By the current standard, all dividends received from non-residents, regardless of status, are included in gross income and are generally taxed. It should be noted that the wording of paragraphs 7.8.5 (c) and 7.8.6 needs to be further worked out in order to better define those who have the benefit regime. Moreover, in this context, we need to go back to the question of what to do with the agreement on avoidance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u37	Finish up, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u38	with the agreement to avoid double taxation with the Republic of Cyprus, since it allows it to completely cancel the bill's tasks and to use the bill solely for tax avoidance purposes. In conclusion, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept this bill as a basis and recommends that it be prepared for a second reading, taking into account the conclusion of Minfin, which is unfortunately not yet available, and that the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council be prepared for a shorter procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u39	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the information board. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u40	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. In his report, Sergey Terjohin pointed out that there was no document required for the adoption of the bill, which would be an expert at the Ministry of Finance. In view of this situation, I would like to ask you to wait for this document and then, after that, to consider this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u41	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u42	Please give the speech to Plednik, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u43	Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u44	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, surely there is a proposal to support this bill. This is the bill that has a positive impact both on the national economy and directly on the corporate tax process. Considering that implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the state budget, but rather increases the budget revenue, i.e. increases the revenue tax, introduces dividend taxation, introduces other things that are positive in times of economic crisis, while the budget is now problematic, there is a proposal: adopt the bill in the first reading, taking into account that it will improve tax legislation by bringing in generally accepted international principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u45	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u46	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u47	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u48	I was assigned to speak on behalf of Ukraine. ” I want to say the following, at first glance, is really an impression that this legislative initiative can contribute to the return to Ukraine of additional income from non-residents. But, of course, if you take the grounds set out in the bill, there is a lack of statistics. I'd like to know what part of Ukrainian is. Ukrainians in non-resident enterprises with a share of dividends on the Ukrainian side. I'd like to know what part of the extra revenue comes into the budget from this kind of activity, and finally, what is the expected revenue that can come from this adopted bill to Ukraine. Of course, this is not stated in the explanatory note. We wanted to remind that the Constitution of Ukraine states that all businesses, all entities in Ukraine have equal business rights, and cannot be done for large enterprises or large shareholders of privileges, while at the same time reducing the role of minority shareholders, including small and medium-sized businesses. This establishes unequal tax rights for big business and small business. So in our view, it is disturbing. So we still propose to ask the author to further elaborate this bill, especially to take into account the proposals made in the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Administration on the grounds and to address the problems that will arise as a result of the calculation and taxation of advance payments. So there is a request to the author that these standards return and settle again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Do none of the factions who did not take advantage of the right of speech insist on the performance? No, it's not. Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law, registration number 6222, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation. [[on dividend taxation]] Please vote. [[10:57:56]] For 242 Decision taken. There was an offer, honourable colleagues, from the committee to make a decision on the preparation of the bill for the second reading under the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of this proposal. Please vote. [[10:58:27]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on lending and stimulating foreign investment]] Registration number 6122. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Why don't we look at it in a nutshell? Dear colleagues, the reporter suggests that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[10:59:17]] For-198 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine” has been drafted with the entry into force of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine with the aim of overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis”, No. 1533. [[on lending and stimulating foreign investment]] Some of the provisions of this law during the consideration of the relevant bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are such that they have lost their relevance and can have a negative effect at this stage. Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine proposes to amend the “Final Provisions” of Act No. 1533, which aims at shortening the deadline until 1 January 2011, to limit lending in foreign currency. [[on lending and stimulating foreign investment]] Exclusion of the additional restrictions on loans, foreign exchange loans received from non-residents and foreign investors imposed by paragraph 8, 12 of the “Final Provisions” of Law 1533. To go back to the previous editions of articles two and 13 of the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Act, namely, to abolish enhanced control and additional restrictions, such as those that have lost their relevance to today. So Bill No. 6122, aimed at removing unwarranted restrictions on foreign investment and international lending that are not in line with world practice. The decision of the profiling committee was made on the basis of a general support for Bill No. 6122. The adoption of this bill will help increase the investment attractiveness of the Ukrainian economy, remove unjustified lending and investment constraints that do not meet international standards, which will further increase opportunities and continue to invest beyond Ukraine's borders, both in terms of investment and credit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u52	I ask the MPs to support this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I remind you that we have one report, because Yuri Volodymyrovich represents the copyright team and committee, thank you Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please write two "for", two "against". Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u54	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! When an expert environment, economists are trying to give a systematic analysis of the state of the economy, one of the first places is to analyze investment activity, the number of investments, the quality of investment, first of all, the direct foreign investment that goes into the Ukrainian economy. And I've been talking about today in the faction presentation about 2009 being extremely difficult in terms of investment, they're smaller lines, I'm stressing, 2.2 times, actually it's unprecedented. I would like to add that political instability has played a negative role in this regard for several years in Ukraine, because money goes where it is calm, first of all, foreign investors' money. What our colleague Yuri Poluniev suggests is that I would not say that the systemic nature of this proposal is rather fragmented. But when we analyzed these two proposals, on an alternative question whether or not they could contribute to increasing foreign investment in the Ukrainian economy, that is definitely the answer. As a result, I think we have no reason not to support this bill and I think we can vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u55	Stanislav Arzvitin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", then Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u56	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. In fact, our faction, our committee unanimously supported the offer of my colleagues Clovis and Poluniev. And I would like to remind our deputies that these norms, harsh norms, restrictive norms, we introduced the days before the financial crisis, and that was very relevant, but unfortunately we're late for six months and then we've been asking questions about what we should undo these decisions for another six months. And I propose that we adopt this bill today, even in general, because for our foreign partners, it looks pretty strange today when there are bans on those agreements that they have concluded with the Ukrainian side. They do not understand how the Ukrainian Parliament can ban their income, their repatriation. So there's a proposal to support the proposal of deputies, to adopt this bill as a whole, because we're almost a year late to adopt these norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u57	Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please, your position. And invite the deputies to the session room, and we'll make our decisions now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u58	Honorary colleagues, bills can be useful, bills can be useful, and bills can be insolently unhelpful. This bill is ridiculously useless. What's in it? Is this where we got our investment now? Have you read this bill, dear friends? What kind of investments are we talking about? Investments are abroad. What is the quintessence of what the honourable author proposes? You and I have banned the long-term repayment of loans granted to non-residents to Ukraine before the residents of Ukraine do not deal with other businesses located in Ukraine. This ban is now being lifted, frankly, this is preparations for the bankruptcy of medium and small banks, which are just waiting for this bill to move resources over time across the borders of our great country and to make the same dollars, including on the basis of the money that was refinanced by the National Bank and the government, as Nadra Bank did. Therefore, this bill cannot be adopted. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that if it is supported in the first reading, I, as a national deputy, have observations that prevent it from being accepted in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Of the factions who did not participate in the draft law, they insist. Who? Please, Mikola Catherinechuk. I've told you before, I've seen Arjewittin perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u60	The European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Of course, I would like to listen to the position of the Ministry of Finance. But as I understand it, most people today are guided by other issues. Nevertheless, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the faction that our faction demands that the cards of the missing MPs be blocked. Let the secretariat of the Supreme Council provide information regarding those who are not present today in the Hall, those on board, so that the Constitution is not violated. Because each MP has to vote in person. Thank you for your attention. And hopefully this will be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u61	Thank you, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate information, appropriate suggestions, in connection with the remark made by the National MP, Mikli Catherinechuk. Please, what the government thinks about this. Please speak to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u62	The government in the person of the National Agency for Foreign Investment and Development supports the changes noted and notes that they will have a positive impact on the financial market and on Ukraine's investment attractiveness because the foreign investment constraints imposed during the foreign investment crisis greatly complicate the investment process, which has a negative impact on Ukraine's investment image and the involvement of foreign direct investment in the country's economy. The previous provisional standards have exhausted themselves and hampered the investment process by denying banks and businesses in Ukraine access to the long-term resources of non-resident investors. In this case, the National Agency for Foreign Investment and Development has expressed its support for and immediate adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? That's how you've done it! What, no one's been speaking since the Party of the Regions? Please, the microphone, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I took the floor because we don't really have the faction, that's the first time. And second of all, I'd like to say in answer to what the committee's chairman was saying. Indeed, more than a year ago, these restrictions were imposed on Ukraine, and they worked, not for the good, but for the negative. In addition, they worked in that part, in my opinion, that they did something useful for a short term, and the negative is that we scared the Western investors. Because there is a practice of free circulation of funds between the states of one country or another and such restrictions as Ukraine has imposed on it, it has provided the money that has been introduced into Ukraine for a period of time, but it has frightened our investors, who are not able to invest today because there are such restrictions. So I think that these restrictions need to be lifted and given free circulation of funds between ours, between the state of Ukraine and other states, and other residents, and this will only give a positive impetus to the fact that Ukraine has a transparent, normal attitude in terms of economics and finance, and this will allow additional costs to be involved in this difficult time. That's why I would ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a reply to the final question. Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on lending and stimulating foreign investment]] Please vote. [[11:11:07]] For 254 Decision taken. The committee offered to accept it as a law as a whole, but there is a denial. So I'm going to put to the vote a second proposal to prepare him for the second reading under a reduced procedure. The draft law is to be voted on. [[Registration number 6122]] [[11:11:42]] For 235 Decision taken. Sergey Teryohin, he has the right to a replica. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, come again. Here you have voted, and read again what is inside. What is proposed? There's a loan, you can't put it out for a while. Because time-consuming is spending abroad. This is a decline in financial resources in the middle of the country. Now it's suggested that any fictitious loans that don't even come here, but only on paper exist, go beyond Ukraine, so you voted in the first reading. And I'm just reminding you that this tribune reporter, actually, because this law was shameful not to support the BUT faction in the past, and I left the BUT faction. And now this is an elementary bribe for that report, which just sold his conscience to the MP for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u67	Poluniev's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u68	Dear Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u69	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u70	Dear Head! I'm not going to comment on Mr. Teryochin's words about someone selling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u71	It's about to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u72	someone was selling their votes, but I want to comment that he didn't understand the essence of this bill at all, and he's confusing the notions, because the repeal of the ban on early repayment of the loan is a standard condition for all international loans and its existence today is an obstacle to Ukraine's involvement in the necessary foreign loans. And this is a condition, including the International Monetary Fund. And if the honourable MP understands national interests, he should act within these interests, not speculative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u73	Please, Teryohin's microphone. Just like that, there'll be no more replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u74	Yeah, well, I understand that the previous reporter's name is "Teacher," because you gave him something to say, even though I didn't call him his last name. But look again at this law. There is no relation to what this man said to the letter “Z ” there. There's only one problem. How do you not now use the full term of the loan body to reverse everything and interest in advance? That's it. To the border. To the border. Most of all, if you know, I'm holding back now, but everyone knows very well what companies this Z MP is lobbying, which bank is lobbying, and what insurance company is lobbying. So let's take a closer look at the middle of this law, not this deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The exchange of lines shows that we have a lack of communication in order to find out whether this law is needed or not. Dear colleagues! We've got drafts on the table. [[Registration numbers 2024, 4745, 4745-1]] These are draft laws that relate to amendments to Ukrainian codes. [[on responsibility for promoting fascism, ideas of Nazism]] Maybe we'll do this, your honor: we'll listen to reports on these laws, we'll have a discussion together, we'll vote differently. Is there no objection? None. Please, do you have anything to do with this? The offer you have, Vladimir Romanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u76	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich and the honourable colleagues, I have been following this bill under the authority of colleague Feldman Alexander Borisovich, followed by the laws of Simonek Petar Mikolaiovich and Teriohin Sergey Anatoliyovich on the same subject. So, with regard to Mr. Feldman's first draft, there is the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority and our committee. As for two other laws, they're filed on March 30th, literally two weeks ago, and there's no conclusion on either the Executive Board or our committee. So the committee asks you to remove and transfer the hearing of these questions to other sessions of the week or day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u77	So let's do this, your honors, then I'm going to put to the vote a motion from the committee to postpone the hearing. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, if we do not vote in favour of the adjournment of the hearing, we will consider it. Well, the committee has the right to set up. [[B in m in s a l in]] So it's a slightly different bill, well, that's something else. I ask that he be given an assignment to be considered. Well, please, Yuri Carmazin, let us know something possible in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! I would like to stress that you and I have adopted the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, stipulates that the bills submitted for 10 days are alternative. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and now look at Feldman's bill submitted on 17.04. In 2008 That's why he's got conclusions, everything else. Other bills were submitted a few days ago, and more specifically 13 days ago. I'm asking you, first of all, is this an alternative? Obviously not. Not by name, not by subject, not by due date. Then who is molding it? Then why is there such a selective approach? If not, another question. How do bills that do not pass through the committee come into the session room? Let us put an end to this and appreciate the Rules as the Law of Ukraine, not simply as a piece of paper! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! I'm bringing it to your attention that the bill by National Deputy Feldman has been going through and through for several weeks now. At the previous meeting of the Conciliation Council, the Conciliation Council agreed to support the consideration of the bill of the People's Deputies Feldman to consider at the same time two other bills directly relating to the topic, but because of the missed deadlines, they could not be alternatives, namely the bills of the national deputies Simonek and Teryochin, in order not to return to the issue. This was our decision on the Conciliation Council. So we now have every reason to consider the bill. Or, if the committee insists, then the vote on the postponement should be put to the vote. But, judging by the mood in the room, we will not get the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone the consideration of this bill. That's why it's an offer. To get the reports on these two bills now, three more specifically, came from the committees. And then together, we discussed these three bills. Voting was carried out differently. Well, if I make a short motion, I'll put it to the vote. Well, the offer was, so I'm putting it to a vote. People's Deputy Laszka. Please, Peter Simonenko, on the basis of the vote, discuss this problem with a reduced procedure. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u80	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! It would be as if we accepted this proposal and voted in favour of a reduced procedure. But the issue is very important today in society. We are preparing for the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great National War. And we understand with you how some politicians today split society apart by heroizing those who have been the guides of the fascists, as rewards and titles are given today. So we suggest that we consider these proposals in full and assess them by making a decision and voting it as a decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the arguments have been heard. Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, it seems to me that if you follow the law, you have the only right law on the Rules of Procedure defined method, which is to put into consideration the only bill of Feldman, two other bills to be removed from registration, not from consideration, but from registration, as registered with a grave violation of the Law of the Rules or any rules of the Rules. They can't even look at it. As for the urgency of the problems. What are we talking about if the authors can't tell the difference between German national socialism, or Nazism, and Italian fascism? We didn't actually fight in that Second World War with fascism, we fought Nazism, we fought national socialism. Full mess is absolutely historic, messed up hell knows what, and we're supposed to be working under someone's genie here right now in the hall and breaking spears.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u83	Mikola Tomenko, please. Oh, no? Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that, for formal reasons, although we all understand that they are on the same issue, these bills, the appropriate unit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus, could not fail to register this document. I continue to ask the apparatus and the Secretariat to look closely at and register only those bills that fall under alternative fixed terms. I say that under formal principles they could not refuse and were obliged to register. So, honourable colleagues, there was a proposal to consider these bills by a reduced procedure, namely, 2024, 4745 and 4745-1. I'm going to put this motion to the vote, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:22:58]] For-198 Decision taken. So let us begin our consideration of the matter. Reporter – Feldman Aleksandr Borisovich, as well as reporters – Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich and Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Correspondents from the committees – Moisik Volodymir Romanovich and Sweden Viktor Dmitrovich, respectively head of the committee and head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u84	The report by the Commissioner of the Council of Europe on human rights as a result of his visit to Ukraine emphasizes that one reason for the spread of the xenophobic trend in Ukraine is the imperfection of legislation. What does my bill propose if you've decided to follow the shorter procedure? Mr. Simonenko's bill proposes criminal responsibility, and I would like to add that the responsibility may be disciplinary to ensure that children do not fall under it, people who have failed to understand, who are not malicious offenders and who add administrative responsibility, add the concept of a fine. But they don't contradict each other, they're two laws. If there is a desire to unite them, I agree. I would like to hear Peter Nikolaevich's report, and these two laws, if such an agreement already exists, make it a law. I've heard some lines here about fascism and Nazism. I advise you, MPs who raise this question, to understand these names, these concepts, and to understand that we are only talking about Nazism today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u85	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we are preparing for the 65th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War, and we are with you today to witness this victory being fought today. And to destroy it like: in museums today there are exhibitions about heroization of fascist textbooks -- and that is the fact -- the school museums and war halls of fame are being destroyed, the names of schools and the streets of the Soviet Union -- the liberators of our people are being eliminated. In Odessa, Griboedova Street was renamed Shuhevich. Well, that's not clear what's going on in Odessa. The destruction of monuments and burials, the vandalism of sacred places where liberated soldiers are buried. I just want to remind you: trying to endure the Memorial of Military Glory "Freedom from Fascism". [[Stryska Street in Lviv]] That's what the tractors used to ride on soldiers' graves, and that's where those tombstones were destroyed. [[Cemetery, Mečnikov Street]] Repeatedly he succumbed to the impersonation of the hills of Slava on Kuznietsov’s grave. We know with you that it is in the western areas of Ukraine that additional pensions have been unlawfully introduced for those who served as manuals for the fascists during the Great War. This is the heroization of these textbooks and their assignment to the title of heroes of Ukraine. Congregations were held in the territories of the military, which formed the attitude of young men as heroes to traitors and the Ukrainian Soviet people — those who fought on the side of the fascists. And separately, it's about the replica that sounded here. When it comes to the difference between Nazism and Fascism, it is not necessary to hide what was fought against by the Soviet people in fascist form, were officers of the fascist German army, received all the weapons from the Germans and fascists that we are talking about today, and killed the Soviets in their own territory. This is today the result of trying to hide the truth of history and destroy the truth of history.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u88	And last sentence, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u90	Suggestions. Unify Feldman’s proposal and the one I am presenting today. And it is about bringing together the administrative ones, so to speak, the principles of responsibility and the criminal responsibility that I am proposing. I think that in the year of the 65th anniversary this is going to be our principle position over those who created this feat and before future generations, to whom we should pass this feat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin on Bill 4745-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, my bill, unlike the two previous ones, gives a broader definition of totalitarian movements, which include fascism, as a phenomenon that arose in Italy Mussolin, national socialism, as a phenomenon in Hitler's Germania, which arose and which was then Stalin's propaganda simply because there was socialism in the middle, replaced by fascism, although there was no attitude of the Nazis to the fascists, except the common regiments there, in Africa. Schovinism, let's say, you know, such a disgraceful phenomenon is common, true, and in our country there are, and in neighbouring countries, which some individual members generally deny the right to exist in Ukraine as a nation, and Ukrainians as a nation. Let's say communism is like a totalitarian current. I'll explain why it doesn't matter to me personally. [[Applause]] What a dictator ideologies promoted. My grandfather spent four years in Mauthausen, another grandfather sitting in the Stalin camps for seven years. What difference does it make? It doesn't really matter to me. And the last thing that causes such an unhealthy recovery is a disgraceful phenomenon, such as sexism, or gender inequality. We have recently heard from our viewers that there are no women in the state administration, their place in the kitchen, and so forth. Therefore, such things must be prohibited, punished administratively, as proposed by National MP Feldman and punished criminally, as I suggested. So let's not make a double moral, but let's support the wonderful, profound bill of the national MP Teryochin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u93	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u94	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine”, Honorary Fellows of the People’s Deputies, Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich! I'm reporting from the committee on Mr. Feldman's bill number 2024. By amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the author of the bill proposes to complete the Code with article 173, marking 3, which should provide for established responsibilities for acts unrelated to public display or distribution of attributes, symbols of printed or audiovisual material on Nazism without its condemnation. The bill proposes to give the content used in article 173 and a footnote to the term “Naziism”. The committee asked for an opinion on these issues to the Attorney-General's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, and they all expressed the view that the notion of Nazism in the bill does not allow it to separate it from concepts such as genocide, racism, nationalism, chauvinism, fascism, extremism and so on. And without a clear definition of this concept, administrative responsibility cannot be established. The main scientific and expert office was in favour of rejecting the bill. At the same time, the committee supported the author of the legislative initiative and would increase the adoption of the bill as a basis. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have authority and after these two subsequent bills, I will repeat what I have told you. The committee has not considered them, so it requests that the bill be considered by Mr. Simonek and Teriochin for the absence of the Committee’s conclusions, since the committee has not considered it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u95	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up. They already said the committee. position, there's a committee. Please sign up, Your Honor, to discuss the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then Mikhailo Chechetov will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, of course, the 65th anniversary of Victory in World War II, in the Great Homeland War that took place today, encouraged the drafting of various bills. And of course, I am saddened by the fact that in Zaporozhye today a monument to the categorization of the Ukrainian people of Stalin is being collected. This cat is no different from Hitler's cat. And today we use the term "radians". Friends, Ukrainian people. When will you stop thinking with an owl, when you cease to be an owl, to mention a mythical nation? Ukraine is now independent. If there are people in the Ukrainian Parliament who hate the very notion of “Ukraine”, who divide the Ukrainians who are actually referring to their past today, about the Komsomolian, which is fat, small, rich and, in principle, will be their political career, it is wrong. Because, in fact, Ukraine needs to unite. We have to speak regardless of the origin that there is: the Ukrainian is Ukrainian. The Ukrainian is the patriot of his country. Look at the Poles. It's a different attitude. And when the tragedy struck, hundreds of thousands of Poles came out because they were hurting for their country. I would like not to talk in the Ukrainian Parliament about Russia, about America, about Europe. First, we need to talk about Ukraine. First, Ukrainians need to unite, get together, love each other, and then work in other countries, talk about other peoples, talk about something that breaks Ukraine apart. And for today, I understand that Feldman's bill is completely incomplete. The bill of some member of a national parliament is absolutely designed to support those who remember their youth and youth, who were certainly not as full as those who submit these bills. And in fact, they don't build politics on this, we really have to do everything today to make Ukraine the only, strong, consummate and speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u97	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Yuri Gnatkevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, on the eve of the anniversary of the Great Victory, we are considering three very important alternative bills. In our view, the most meaningful is the bill of the national MP Simonek. The bill provides for the completion of the Criminal Code of Ukraine by a separate article that establishes responsibility for promoting fascism. I think those who whistle must be happy or happy to promote the ideas of fascism? I don't know why you are. This position is unclear. I'm talking to the radio audience, it's about promoting fascism, and someone's trying to ban it. But God will judge you, and the people will judge you. It should be noted that since in the present case criminal activity is a form of expressing certain views and beliefs when it comes to determining the relevance of such a decision, it is also necessary to be guided by the provision of part three of article 34 of the Constitution, according to which the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and belief may be restricted by law in the interests of national security, territorial integrity, or public order in order to prevent disturbances or crimes to protect the health of the population, in order to protect the reputation or rights of others. To prevent the disclosure of information received confidentially or to maintain the authority and impartiality of justice. The limitations of this right on any other motive are unconstitutional. Note the fact that for activities aimed at promoting fascism, particularly in France, there is a legislative responsibility for up to two years of imprisonment. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the Bill of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka on the basis of which, when preparing for the second reading, individual readings should be used positively to include the second reading of alternative drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u99	Yuri Gnatkevich, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, next will be Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I am the head of the ethno-political subcommittee and the warning of national conflicts. The very consideration of the matter, the shouts in the hall, speak of the sharpness of the matter. The point is that such bills cannot be said to be out of time, even so, but they show that there is still a national issue in Ukraine. And we still don't know what kind of state we're building, really the Ukrainian national state or another Russian state, or we're building a state where two equal nations are somehow regionally grouped and have rights, and we haven't solved it yet, and that's why we're going to have this discussion. But I think we can look at such bills when we're absolutely determining our terminology. What is “Naziism”? Under all European standards this is a reduction from the word "national-zocialism" of the nation and it is actually accepted in Europe exclusively as a term relating to German-Hitler ideology and nothing more. And today we see a slogan when we blocked the Tobacco “Naziism will not pass”. Who is “Naziism”? We don't have Nazis, because we don't have Hitlers, we don't have Germans. Second, what is “shiningism”? Schovinism is the propaganda of the exclusiveness of a particular nation over another. Whether we have such propaganda, no one promotes it, for example, we say to the Ukrainians, but we're not yet formed, we're still very weak, we're still giving up our language. What Is Fascism? This is extreme practical aggressive chauvinism in action. These are dictionaries and they're fixing this, we're fixing this terminology. We don't know what the Russian-linguistic population is and whether you have it or not, what its typology is. If it is and we do not recognize that it is a certain ethnic issue of the Supreme Council and science. Let's define language and other rights, we haven't taken up this issue yet, we've got conflicts from here, and from here, the fight against the Smoker, we don't know what else is going to end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u101	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u102	As long as we're not in the Supreme Council, be careful with terminology, we're not moving on with these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u103	Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! I remind you that each faction has a right to speak if it does not take advantage of this right during the discussion of the bill. One minute. But they've already come out of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u104	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Let me start by saying that the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine today, on the eve of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism, is receiving not just letters, but dozens of letters on this subject, where veterans, who have gone through this terrible war, are not simply asking for them, they are asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make this decision. I mean, my dear colleagues, today, on the eve of the 65th anniversary of the Fascism Victory, in the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War, we can't, not just be obliged, if you want, to make that decision. The Communist faction supports two of the three bills and proposes them in the second, in preparation for the second reading to unite, I mean the Simonck project and the Feldman project. And for those who doubt. I'd like to say that, dear colleagues who don't know, I'll say, and who knows, I'll remind you, on the day of Hitler's birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u106	On the eve of Hitler’s birth day at the Winnicky bet, Werwolf gathers and celebrates this event every year. This is the price of the gap in our legislation. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u107	Dear National Deputies! We have completed our consideration of these bills. At the same time, my honourable colleagues, I am bringing to your attention that the Parliamentary Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly of the SND, has decided on days to produce a model law on opposition and dissemination of the ideas of fascism. And notice, dear colleagues, that this is done by the necessity of being so justified on the ground, in the spaces of the former Soviet Union. That is, among those who have suffered the most defeat. This indicates that we are not doing well with the moral condition of society. And I think as we get closer to 65 Years of Victory, we're not getting close to thinking about objective problems, we're politicizing them. So we need to make the right decision, so it would be good if we looked at these bills and adopted the bill and the People's MP Feldman and Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. Then they will need to be united, where the matter is concerned. Well, it's your will, I just read this bill, like all of you, saying what we should do, and it's up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for promoting the ideas of Nazism]] Registration number 2024. Please vote. [[11:43:06]] For 262 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 164, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" - 41, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 7, communists - 27, "Litvina Block" - 20, non-fractional - 2. I now put to the vote the draft Law, registration number 4745, amending certain codes of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for promoting fascism]] Please vote. [[11:43:47]] For 224 The decision is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party - 171, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" - 5, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 0, Communists - 27, "Litvina Block" - 20, non-fractional - 1. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the Law, registration number 4745-1, amending certain Ukrainian laws on the responsibility to promote fascism, Nazism, communism, sexism and other totalitarian political movements that restrict human freedom. Author Sergei Teryohin. Please be sure. [[11:44:41]] For 175 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u108	The factions, please. Region Party Two, Timoshenko Yulia Block 118, Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense 54, Communists 0, Litvina Block 0, non-factional 1. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 2 of the master procedural code of Ukraine is under review. [[on the infringement of cases before a court of the household on the basis of external claims]] [[Registration number 2424]] The proposal was to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u109	This is a consolidation. [[11:45:37]] For 336 You could think of it as a basis. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Gorin Irina Anatoliyevna, a co-rapporteur with the Justice Committee, Pritika Dmitry Mikitovic. Dmitri Mikitovich will be both for the reporter and for the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u110	Irina Gorin is ill, so she is absent today. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 2 of the master procedural code of Ukraine, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputy Irina Gorin. [[on the infringement of cases before a household court on the external claims of certain categories of natural persons]] [[Registration number 2424]] The purpose of the bill is to improve the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, which define individuals who have the right to apply to the court. I would like to remind you that in its time, the Supreme Council passed a bill to which all disputes related to corporate relations were referred to the courts of commerce. But then we didn't take into account that article 2 of the Code of Conduct lists the subjective composition of persons who have the right to appeal to the courts of the household. So the author of this bill just solved this gap, so to speak, to eliminate. The Committee proposes to supplement, the author proposes to supplement part one of article 2 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure by establishing that the Court of Commerce is infringing on the requests of natural persons who seek the protection of their rights and legally protected interests in disputes arising from corporate law relations. The Committee believes that the proposed changes will allow for the harmonization of article 2, part two, of article 1, paragraph 4, of article 1, of article 12 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine also believes that the draft law can be adopted as a basis. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Code of Master and Procedural Procedure. [[on the infringement of cases before a commercial court on the application of certain categories of natural persons]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u111	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich. Dear colleagues. We're working under a reduced procedure right now. I would like you to sign up for who is “against” the bill. Please show me. Chechev Mikhailo Vasilovich, prepare Philippeenko. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the project proposes to amend article 2 of the master procedural code of Ukraine by including in the list of persons who have been invited by the court to violate the case of natural persons who seek the protection of their rights and legally protected interests in disputes arising from corporate relations and in other cases provided for in Ukrainian legislation. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to amend article 2 of the master procedural code of Ukraine with the aim of improving legislation, namely to eliminate contradictions and to resolve disagreements between the rules of the Code, namely between article 2 and the article. and part 2 of article 11 and part 1 of article 12 of the Code. The faction of the region proposes to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u113	Thank you. Vladimir Filipenko, please, from the site microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you recall, several years ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a package of anti-trade laws according to which all matters relating to corporate relations, disputes involving shareholders, were referred to the jurisdiction of the domestic courts. But there's also a gap that the courts have no formal right to appeal to individuals and shareholders. And I think this bill needs to be supported, because it's this gap in the procedural code that we're eliminating. So, for example, I personally support this bill, and I think that it's meant to remove gaps in the current Code of Economic Procedure, and I ask my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have factions that have not been registered. From “Our Ukraine, ” George Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, before considering this issue, I would like to point out that for the third year in a row, the leadership of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine has violated the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws in force, which continue to hold the position of an illegal judge, Sergey Demchenko. This is a clear usurpation of power. I point out that all of this has been done only to resolve the issue of Medjugorje. With regard to the content of the proposals found in the project, I remind you that part 2 of article 1 of the HLC provides for the right to appeal to the courts of the household also to natural persons who are not subject to entrepreneurial activity, in cases that are provided for by legislative acts. Thus, a list of categories of natural persons should now be determined, on the basis of the requests of the court of commerce, which would violate cases arising from corporate relations, since this is, in principle, provided on the basis of paragraph 4 of the section.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u117	Allow me to finish Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u118	Thank you. I wanted to say that this is provided for in article 12, paragraph 1, of the GCC, where domestic courts are subject to cases arising from corporate relations in disputes between the company and its participant, founder, or shareholder, including the participant that has emerged, as well as between those involved in the establishment, activity, management and cessation of the company’s activities, in addition to labour disputes. So we need now to identify a list of the categories of individuals, I propose that we adopt this bill in the first reading. But it is clear to comply with standards that are already in force legislation that are not being amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u119	Thank you. From the Ministry of Justice? Please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Supports the bill that has been tabled today. Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u120	Yes, the Ministry of Justice supports it. Dear colleagues, no one insists? Then I'm putting to the vote the draft law on introduction, I'm sorry. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 2 of the master procedural code of Ukraine, registration number 2424, on the basis of [[on the infringement of cases before a court of the household on the basis of external claims]] Please vote. [[11:53:29]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Any ideas from the committee? None. Dear colleagues! Let's go, let's go. So, come on, I think we are now, announcing a draft bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry. Both from the authors and from the committee, the Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy, the entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalia Juryevna. Dear colleagues! Let's talk about how much we have, five minutes. Natalia Juryovna, are you proposing a reduced procedure? Dear colleagues! The author and chairman of the committee request that the summary of the bill be supported. I'm betting on the vote, who's in favour of working in a reduced regime and considering Bill 5009 as a reduced procedure? Please vote. [[11:54:46]] For-286 Decision approved. To the report, please welcome Natalia Juryovna Královska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Failure to take adequate, timely and urgent measures for the modernization of the Ukrainian industry has led to an increase in the preservation of the crisis in selected areas of industry. More than ever, it is necessary to take all legislative measures to provide tools and incentives to our domestic industries, our domestic business, in order to carry out systemic, literacy, structural reforms. And without a competitive industry to talk about competitive products in our markets, unfortunately, there is no need. I would like to remind you that the physical consumption of the basic funds of the Ukrainian industry is 60 per cent, 90 per cent being the moral outlay of all the basic funds of the Ukrainian industry. And, of course, this greatly undermines our competitiveness. Therefore, without a healthy production, it is clear that no healthy economy or social standards will have to be discussed if we are to step by step into the commodity income of the developed economies. I will recall that in Ukraine, even with the young economies of our Eastern European neighbours, the depreciation rates remain much lower, which also makes it difficult to systematically and properly talk about the modernization of our core capacities. Therefore, our Ukrainian enterprises are also denied the possibility of acquiring new, quality equipment that is not produced in Ukraine abroad, because import duties, despite the fact that we have joined WTO, are today enormously high, and this is a barrier to modernization. And if industrial rearmament is not urgently promoted today, domestic enterprises will lose their share of the market in both internal and external markets. On this basis, the draft bill offers anti-crisis support to the domestic industry. First. Until 1 January 2011, equipment imported and not produced in Ukraine to create jobs and modernize production other than excise goods should be exempted from payment of import duty. Until 1 January 2011, VAT will be exempted from the introduction of new core funds for equipment and kits for enterprises that create new jobs and implement energy-saving technologies. The strategic priority of innovation is also the production of land transport, aircraft, means of transport, equipment and equipment, the development and implementation of the latest technologies to assemble them. It is also proposed to establish that the entry into customs territory of Ukraine for the purpose of free circulation or temporary importation is the first to register imported vehicles in Ukraine subject to compliance with environmental standards not lower than the level of the euro-3 from 1 January 2011, the euro-4 from 1 January 2013 and the euro-5 from 1 January 2015. I ask that, distinguished colleagues, uphold these norms. We all considered them with you six months ago when they were even more adequate and timely, but unfortunately you remember the veto of the President and the decision of the Constitutional Court that the date that was stated by the Supreme Council on the bill did not correspond to the date of the President's signing of the law. It was a technical error. And President Viktor Yushchenko at the time did everything he could to ensure that the bill was dedicated. You and I were then able to overcome the veto and find mutual understanding and support for more than 300 votes. I very much hope that today's new coalition, regardless of whether there are deputies in power or opposition, understands the need for reforms, the need to modernize the Ukrainian industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u122	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u123	That we will be able to support this bill, which our industry is looking forward to and indeed looks forward to modernizing and building the competitiveness of our economy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u124	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Please register: two – “for”, two – “against”. Please show me. Dear colleagues, we must consult. We have two speakers. We have either a chance to take a longer break, or, taking into account and warning the labour rights of the people, take a break now -- and continue the discussion at 12:30. I'm gonna take a break, aren't I? Dear colleagues, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. And we will continue to consider this bill for discussion. People's deputy Konovaluk will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u125	We're continuing our work, dear fellows! Please invite the national deputies to the session room. I remind you that we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 5009. [[on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry]] And while the national MPs are being drawn up, the honourable colleagues, I wanted to ask the regulatory committee, his head, Alexander Vasilovich Efraemov, because I have been asked by the national deputies that we still have a number of colleagues who are actively working in the authorities of the state, and we have not yet considered the issue of their compatibility. Well, we have the heads of committees that run committees in the executive branch and committees in Parliament, and we have the staff of the President's Secretariat. I asked the committee to consider these issues and we could, once the committee has reached its conclusions, to deprive us of this principle of compatibility, to allow other people's deputies to legally go to work in Parliament. We've got two national deputies. National MP Konovaluk, please. Corge will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I believe the very title: The law on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the work of our industrial enterprises should be considered much more seriously and more deeply. We had experience with you in the year 98 when we adopted a comprehensive pilot program in the mining and metallurgical complex as a whole. This programme has produced some results, not only have we been able to support exporters, but we have generally stabilized the main sectors of the country's economy, which have enabled us to strengthen and strengthen the balance of payments. Today, we face a more serious challenge, that in the context of the financial crisis, we understand that not only industrial enterprises, but in general, the economy of the country requires very global transformations and transformations, structural reforms. Of course, the taxes are on. import duties and VAT waivers for certain types of products, equipment would be essential. But I would like to recall that today, even with the necessary equipment for the technological redesign of the enterprise, it is not possible to install, provide and operate it. We need to understand that the value added tax owed to exporters is 23 billion dollars. 12 billion bracelets that are overdue. This is the working capital of enterprises, which is the foundation of the means necessary for the normal development and energy-saving technologies to provide equipment that would improve the quality of output and increase productivity. It seems to me that today we need to address this issue more comprehensively and understand that by reducing Ukraine's exports we have a real impact on the state of our financial sector. It should be remembered that a large part of the business time is not credited by our banks, and this is also a huge shortage of working capital. Just a combination factory. Ilika in Mariupola.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u128	is made up of more than a billion bracelets. I would like to call on the speaker who has reported on this bill to the Chairman of the Regulatory Committee. Regulatory policy on the question that, for example, some of the structures of the Lugansk region in the coal market have driven coal on fictitious documents over the past few years, stating in the Customs Declaration the price of three times the wholesale price that is on the Ukrainian market and simply pumping out hundreds of millions of bracelets from the State budget. It is just that the Chairman of the Committee needs to examine these issues in some way, although I think she is well aware of this situation. Therefore, the problem cannot be solved in part and must be addressed in an integrated manner. We propose that this bill be sent for finalization and, given the experience already available in Ukraine, that the problem be addressed in an integrated manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u129	Thank you. Cory Vitaly Terentiyovich, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Then we'll allow those factions that didn't sign up to speak in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u130	Vitaly Corge, BUT faction. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Bill 5009 addresses several important issues of concern. First of all, it offers strategic priorities for innovative activities in the production of land transport equipment, aircraft, floating equipment related to transport, equipment and equipment, and the development of new technologies for their manufacture. It is proposed that by 1 January 2011, new equipment and complex products of commodity groups that are not produced in Ukraine and imported into its territory by enterprises, as well as new core funds, materials, equipment, equipment and complex products, other than those imported by companies with the aim of creating new productions with the introduction of energy-saving technologies, be free of charge. Transactions in the introduction of the customs territory of Ukraine of the listed basic funds, mothers, equipment, and so forth are also offered before the specified date of exemption from VAT. In doing so, the government's import, inventory and volume of the goods will be determined in accordance with the draft permit to Ukraine for free circulation and the first registration of new and used means of transport, both produced in Ukraine and imported into Ukraine, is proposed to comply with progressive environmental standards. And what's particularly important is that the indication of the level of environmental standards that the means of transport is appropriate should be brought to the testimonial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u131	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u132	I support this bill, and I ask you to support the committee's decision to take it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u133	Thank you. From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" by Pavel Žebrovsky. As long as there is a wish, the Lithuanian Block or the Communist faction can speak in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, in fact, it's as if it's a good thing that we need to modernize today's production to replace the basics. Against that, I think, this, I don't think anyone will mind. But surely, without a comprehensive approach to solving this issue, there will be no need. What we're giving is that the law stipulates that the list of equipment that will be imported should be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers while at the same time the level of corruption that is in the Ukrainian society. Are we not transferring a sufficiently serious corruption element to the government? Would not serious bribes really be involved in solving a particular issue? Whether this will be resolved in a complex manner, not because of the political component, but because it is really necessary. And certainly there are a lot of such questions. I'm convinced that even if you get rid of VAT, especially on the part that the VAT is not returned today, and that washes off the circulation costs, you have to be freed when you import VAT. But this law needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u135	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u136	Needs serious work and I think that after the work is done, this law can be adopted both on the basis and in general. Today I would like to send this bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Nobody insists? If we didn't deny the government's position as Deputy Minister of Finance Kuzkin Evgen Juryovich. Please listen to the government, please. Click and talk in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u138	This bill is not supported by the Ministry of Finance, since the implementation of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 in particular may lead to significant losses in the budget from the arrival of customs duties to the reduction of VAT revenues resulting from the import of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let me remind you once again what this is about is a bill tabled by the People's Deputies of the Royal Republic, the Clovis, the Krajinim. And the committee is offering us a foundation as a whole. So I'll let you know before I vote. So I put to the vote the draft Law “On Making Changes to Certain Laws of Ukraine. ” Registration number 5009. Please vote on the basis. [[12:40:49]] For 115 The factions, please show us. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 103, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 12, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. Please, the head of the committee and co-author of the Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, when we talk about modernization when we talk about the competitiveness of our industry and the economy, we need to understand that we need to take unpopular measures. Part of the budget's loss, and part of the creation of tax incentives to keep our industry from speaking, not off-shore areas, has been investing in job creation and the creation of a competitive economy. That is why I am addressing our parliamentary colleagues, we have jointly prepared this bill, and I very much hope that the seat should not be determined by the view of economic reforms. And if we are all talking about a systemic approach today, this systemic approach must be done not after two years when we will no longer have industry, but rather to start unpopular measures, but supporting industrial measures today. I propose that the bill be re-readed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the chairman of the committee and co-author of the bill. I therefore put to the vote for a re-reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry]] [[5001]] The first one again. Please vote. [[12:42:40]] For 115 The same result. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the conduct of checks on business subjects solely on the basis of a court decision. [[Registration number 5327]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Hayman, who will report to the head of the Committee of the Kingdom, Oleg Eisikovich, who will have your ideas in full or in short.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u142	Short cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u143	The bill's author, honourable colleagues, would ask you to support the consideration of the bill by means of a reduced procedure. I would like to place a motion on the vote to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. [[12:43:35]] For 255 There is good Parliament's will to work in such a regime, please, Oleg Eisikovich, report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! The bill is designed to guarantee the rights of entrepreneurs to tamper with corruption control bodies, to create safeguards in the way of using checks as an anticompetitive tool. In order to achieve its objective, it is proposed that the activities of entrepreneurs be checked solely on the basis of the decisions of the court. An exception to this rule is the checks carried out in the order established by the Operational Search Act. Activities and the Criminal Procedure Code. I think this bill will allow you to breathe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u145	Please. Come on, please. I'm glad that our colleagues in the Communist faction and the Party of the Regions are clearly warning that speakers speak exclusively in the state language is a good sign. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u146	to take a full breath because today more than 34 public authorities are being tested and as if the lion's share of the time of entrepreneurs and all businesspeople is going to write off these papers and checks. Please support this law, I have everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u147	Thank you. The position is clear. I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Royal Natalia Jurijyevna to the co-rapporteur's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise has considered Bill 5327 on the conduct of audits of business entities solely on the basis of a court decision. This bill is, of course, a number of shortcomings and requires considerable work for second reading, but the global economic crisis has put Ukraine's economy to great test. And unfortunately, the fact that the Supreme Council Hall has not now supported the previous bill, which was aimed at supporting industry, we very much hope that the first step in meeting the support of the business climate will still find the strength to do so. You know that a law was passed in December that introduces a moratorium on the conduct of small business audits. Unfortunately, however, this law does not work and law enforcement authorities today ignore the legislative field and continue to operate on all checks and arbitrary controls continue today in Ukraine. Therefore, members of the Yulia Timoshenko faction have drafted a bill which provides for the conduct of checks solely by decision of the court. Yes, the norm is hard enough, but we understand that today if we do not calm the law enforcement authorities, if we do not bring them clearly into the legislative field, if the laws in the country do not begin to work, and if the law continues to operate arbitraryly, then no business climate needs to be considered, there is no need to consider economic reforms, nor does it need to speak of the investment attractiveness of our country. As long as we have the unforeseeable actions of the supervisory authorities until the laws are implemented in our country, we will have neither a stable business nor a stable investment. The Committee therefore proposes that the bill be supported in the first reading and that it be further elaborated on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u149	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Dear colleagues, please sign up. I remind you, we're working on a reduced procedure. Please show us who's been active. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Block of Timoshenko. Popescu will be next. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u150	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear friends, we all understand that the system of checks is sometimes motivated, not by order, but by the establishment of a corrupt system of repurchase, repurchase, and so forth. Today, the vast majority of those structures that control the entrepreneur are sinning. So I will certainly uphold this law. But I would like to see a single bill in the state as a whole that clearly regulates who, when and how many times a calendar term can verify the structure. And the motivation of these tests must obviously be primarily planning and kind in order to help the entrepreneur first correct certain sins rather than catch them on something, and then milk them as they are today. So I'd like us to support this bill today, but so that the appropriate committee and those deputies working in this area will take over the task of developing a single, well, it's not a code of some kind, but a single document that clearly says how many times and when the firemen check how many taxpayers, how much the santa checks and so on. Because today it's gotten bigger and bigger. All the tests during the pre - festive period are especially activated when extra drinks and snacks are to be made on a good table, as well as money. So the preliminary tests of firefighters are not motivated by the burning of a tree somewhere along with the room, but by other motives. And once again, I would like to point out that without giving order in general in the system, individual bills, especially how we can make little decisions, but at least this would be a small step towards meeting in order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u151	Thank you. John Popescu, faction of the Party of Regions, next is Valérie Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u152	Please pass the word to Plotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u153	Alexy Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u154	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! There is no valid question in this bill. Because the decision to inspect business entities belongs to the competent authority of the executive body responsible for such control. Thus, the transfer of his right of admission to court is contrary to article 6 of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which state authority is exercised on the basis of its division into legislative, executive and court. There's a contradiction between the executive and the judicial authorities, and once again, it's totally unconstitutional and unconstitutional. So in our view, there is a logical suggestion to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u155	Valérie Beales, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u156	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! And the principles, indeed, are too many problems in relations with, and with, controlling law enforcement authorities, and host entities. The truth is, there is no place for children. But there is one question. So why do we have almost 50 percent of the economy in the shade? Because it's not good to steal. Why do we have new gods and artemonics, and why do we have echelons coming off the rails? Because they're completely out of control, let's say, technologically hazardous objects. That is why this law cannot be adopted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor. From "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense," Pavel Zebrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u158	Unfortunately, the political relevance that controls is the one that acts. And today what the governing coalition says about the non-admission of this law is not entirely fair. In fact, respectable colleagues should be tested, but they should be according to a list that is approved each year by the Tax Office. This is a matter of further examinations, and the point is that if a criminal case is committed on the basis of the fact that the crime is committed, such an examination is carried out without trial. Because of this, the issue is the elimination of abuses, of extracurricular checks, which are unfortunately seriously possible and are threatening to run a business. What is stealing is, yes, but it's not really going to those who hide from tax, it's going to those who work, that's the problem. For those who are connected, those who are wicked, are honorable colleagues. Because of this request to support this bill, it never gets out of hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u159	Thank you. Let me finish. Turn on the microphone of Pavel Zebrowsky. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u160	He doesn't get out of control by tax-holders, he just normalizes. And I would like this bill to be supported. Because, you know, power is a situation like this, and today you're in power, tomorrow you're in opposition, and you don't have to focus on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "Block of Lithuania" still has a chance, a minute. Doesn't anyone insist? Don't insist. Dear friends, despite the fact that we're in the middle of a reduced procedure so that you don't deny that we're in a position from the government. We have a deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Svetlan Ivanovna Svishchev. Please take the position of the government and your committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u162	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The State Committee on Enterprise has worked on the bill. And we think, of course, that it's not appropriate to do the tests, because it's going to take the trials, it's an inefficient job at all. And pre-planned tests, of course, because they grow in us every day and that time. It is invented that complaints are filed and so on and so forth, and you can, to whom it pleases, carry out a pre-planned examination at any time, of course, it is appropriate to do what the law provides for, that pre-planned examinations were carried out in accordance with the court’s decisions. But I'm afraid so. The law does not specify which court and which court is tried, which court makes the appropriate decisions, whether it is an administrative court or an administrative court. At the same time, it is appropriate to support the introduction of appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine, namely, the removal from article 11-1 of Part 9 concerning the conduct of exit checks by the head of the tax authority, which are issued by order. In view of the fact that this rule is in conflict with part 8 of the same article, where preplanned exit checks are conducted only on the basis of a court decision. In general, the State Enterprise expresses its view of the support and adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you again. The committee is offering us a basis, only we have heard the position of the representative of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, which is mandated on behalf of the government, to support the bill in the first reading. I therefore put to the vote the draft Law on the conduct of checks on business subjects solely on the basis of a court decision, registration number 5327. Please vote on the basis. [[12:56:28]] For 131 The factions? Please show the factions. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 87, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 44, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 0, non-fractional – 0. Committee, no suggestions. The bill was rejected. I'm announcing a draft law on volunteer movements. Project registration number 5266. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Vladislav Volodymyrovich, what is the general line of your author group? By full procedure? Short cut, huh? National MPs who have submitted the bill, including: Kaskov, Shevchenko, Suslov, Knazević, Miroshnichenko, ask the session hall for a reduced procedure. I'll bet you a vote on the shorter procedure. [[12:57:38]] For 256 There's a decision. Vladislav Volodymyrovich, report in short version 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! Your attention is given to Ukraine's Bill on Volunteering, Number 5266, introduced by Kaskov, Shevchenk, Suslov, Knyazevich and Miroshnichenko People's Deputies. I will not hide that the consideration of this bill is promoted by the requirements of the Euro-2012, but it is certainly justified and social needs. Because the ability of society to volunteer is a powerful testimony to the civilization of this society and its place in general. In recent years it has been known that the volunteer movement has gained wide circulation, and it has functioned in various areas of Ukrainian social life. But this is particularly true of the high-level European Football Championship in Euro-2012. As we know, all over the world, there are very broad types of enthusiasts who perform extremely important functions in ensuring the performance of the championship, at work with guests, and so on and so forth. It is now known that according to UEFA’s requirements, about 2,000,500 volunteers are scheduled to participate in the European Football Championship. At the same time, there is no legislative framework today that defines organizational and legal principles for the promotion of volunteering. Some aspects of this area of regulation are partly defined by Ukrainian laws on social services and on social work with children and young people, as well as individual decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. However, the absence of a special law aimed at regulating volunteerism has hindered the formation of clear and consistent policies. Especially should it be noted that it aims to remove obstacles to the use of volunteering during the organization and to carry out mass cultural and sporting public values. In most countries, Europe has similar projects that are systematizing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u165	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u166	In Poland, for example, this activity is regulated by a separate law. The project defines the legal status of a volunteer, a volunteer organization, rights and duties, principles of interaction, and so forth. Implementation of the proposed project does not require any additional expenditure. If there's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u167	Thank you, Vladislav Volodymyrovich, the question is, but we can't ask because there's a reduced procedure. Thank you for the performance. Who from the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports will report on tourism? It doesn't, does it? Bad, because there was a time when this committee worked actively. Let's write down who supports or does not support this short-term bill. Please show those who are willing to have a discussion. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. Prepare Alexia Plednikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I will not stop at the practical need for this law to be passed in connection with the Euro-12. The reporter said enough. I would like to draw the attention of the Hall to the fact that the proposed bill allows us to solve yet another principle of our legislation related to so - called charitable activities. The fact is that today’s Law on Charity and Charity provides for two types of charitable organizations. On the one hand, they are so-called member charities, which are essentially social organizations, and they carry out activities through the work of specific members, which, frankly, is not charity, but actually volunteering. On the other hand, charities that no doubt need to be viewed as financial formations as financial structures because they provide charitable assistance through funds. In fact, the adoption of the Law on Volunteering would exclude from the regulation the Law on Charity, which is owned by public organisations, which are also doing community service through the work of their members, by translating it under the provisions of the Law on Volunteering. And that would be a natural solution. Then charity would be a financial activity that would be regulated accordingly. It seems to me that, given both the practical need to prepare for the Euro-2012 and the need to distinguish, in fact, volunteer and charitable activities, this bill needs to be supported. And I urge everyone to vote for him in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u169	Alexy Plotnikov, Party of Regions. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u170	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, the bill is prepared for a topic that is relevant and very important, both in the context of the Euro-2012 and in the context of other things related to the organization of activities and citizens, as in the case of volunteers, and in general as organizations of citizens’ activities in other fields. With regard to the specific fulfillment of this bill, there are some problems at this stage of its consideration related to contradictions and to the Law on the Unification of Citizens, and to the laws on charity and charities, and to certain other laws. I mean, on the one hand, there's already a prerequisite for the volunteer movement to develop, based on the laws in force, on the other hand, the possibility of adopting another law that would allow the volunteer movement to develop separately, on a separate legislative basis. So there is a proposal to support this bill, so that the author of the bill will bring it into line with the laws in force and this bill will function and benefit the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u171	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. He will be followed by Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u172	Vladimir Bondarenko, House of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of Reform and Order. The very word “voluntary ” includes the part that says that a person has voluntarily agreed to do one or another. Of course, volunteering is very important in the sphere of interpersonal contacts and, in particular, in large international efforts such as the Olympics. I remember thousands of young Chinese in Beijing, fluent in English that is not typical of China, meeting thousands of similar guests. Then, volunteers could meet them on the street, ask them how to get through, or ask them to prove it. And they did it with great pleasure. There's another type of volunteer movement that I'm very familiar with is helping extremely ill, cancerically ill people. By creating hospicees in the Sanhedrin region, we felt that some people were praying and trying to help, mostly those who had survived the tragedy themselves in the family or somewhere. But to this day without this law, without some other legislative acts, we cannot at times distinguish a volunteer from someone who does it sometimes for himself. There have already been some volunteers who walk through the apartments of the Chinese and not just the Chinese, offering some services for.. and then the money disappears, things disappear, and so on. So it seems to me that we have to bring the volunteer movement back to normal because it has to register with local authorities, not just to be licensed, to register that there is such an organization, there is such a representative, there is such a phone, there is such a location, there are such elements, there are shapes, or signs that distinguish volunteers from everyone else. And so I would like to make it clear that this phenomenon can grow into very unnecessary things. But I am voting today in the first reading for this bill to be further elaborated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u173	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u174	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I signed up in the form of “against” not only to have the opportunity to speak, but also to say that in general this bill cannot be adopted today. Our faction will support it in the first reading. But in any case, I would like to refer to the authors of the legislative initiative with the right, from an ideal, meaningful point of view of the legislative initiative that the bill should be legally written. So legal technology is what's supposed to be in the bill. What is it? Look, we have in the Social Services Act a definition of what volunteering is, what volunteering is, you're proposing a different formulation. I think it's better in the actual law because it reflects what Vladimir Bondarenko said about the very humanistic essence, the socially useful essence of volunteering as phenomena. It says that, see, “voluntary — a natural person who voluntarily engages in non-profit and motivated activities”, it seems, “which is of a socially beneficial nature”. Why not use that definition. It's more complete, it's more reflective, I'm repeating the humanistic essence of the very phenomenon of volunteerism. The second point is that if it's a bill, not just a declaration, it's obvious that there's important terminology that doesn't have an explanation in other laws. Here you are using "sisterial care", "situation of palliative assistance", "heriatric wards". What is it? I think in the glossary of any bill such specific definitions should be explained. Once again, when preparing for second reading, we need to look legally at how to correct the correctness of your legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists? Four factions made their appearance. No, it's not. If you don't mind. I don't know, we have two ministries represented here, who on behalf of the government will take the stand? We have a Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy and a Deputy Minister of Justice. Well, by the logic of things, it's obvious that the Ministry of Justice regulates this issue. Yuri Dmitrovitch, what's the position? Turn on the deputy minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u176	The Ministry of Justice has carefully considered the proposed draft Law on Volunteering and has concluded that it can be supported under substantial substantive revisions, since the bill's main flaw is its declarant character and makes it similar to the declaration, so many issues are not defined. In particular, there is no definition of who may be the founder of a volunteer organization, who may be members, of the legalization system. There are also some positions that do not involve normative exercise. But in conclusion, the Ministry of Justice supports this bill on the basis of substantial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u177	Thank you. I understand that we had a deputy minister of justice. Yuri Dmitrovitch Pritica. But the position of the government was clear: to support the bill in the first reading. I also inform you that the committee is also proposing to us to adopt the bill as a basis, and the scientific and scientific department is to work on it. So I'm voting on the draft law on volunteer movement, registration number 5266, on the basis. Please vote. [[13:11:03]] For 313 The decision has been made. Please work, prepare for the second reading. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Social Services Act, registration number 1409. [[on the establishment and payment of compensation payments to natural persons]] The reporter is Konovaluk Valerius Ilych. Please. The chairman of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, will report. Valerius Illich, by full procedure do you propose? Which general line is the full line or the short line? In short, I hear the people are asking for a reduced procedure. I am voting on the possibility of reviewing the bill on a reduced basis. Please, here comes the vote. [[13:12:09]] For 232 We're looking at a short-term bill. Please, Valérie Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! This question concerns the most socially vulnerable population, the most unfortunate, the disabled. We predicted that the social situation would be difficult, because these are the people who have not only the ability to provide their own existence, but also the size of their pensions, the financial assistance does not provide the ability to fund the appropriate level of actual supervision of these people. I want to remind you that there are 2.5 million disabled people in Ukraine today. And only 321 boarding homes, only 28 dormitories for war veterans, 149 mental boarding houses, 56 boarding-houses, i.e. there are 54.5 thousand senior citizens, disabled people and children with disabilities in general. And I said that this category is 2.5 million, so we're changing, we're just deleting the sixth part of the seventh section of the Social Services Act, and we're introducing clearly, we're setting clear criteria for not only the State Budget, but also the ability of local budgets, other sources of finance to target these goals. This bill, it introduces certain definitions and terms, such as order and the basis for calculating the amount of compensation, the order of payment of the untimely compensation received, is very important. Because you agree that compensation for, for example, a third - group disabled child is 40 bracelets. Who in general will care for this money today, for which there is the only possibility of existence and connection with the outside world, when the State really cares and provides for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u179	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u180	I would also ask you to consider that in recent years this compensation for sanatorium treatment has not been funded. Because last year it was 260 dollars. So the state can't fully finance these problems in the budget. So I'm asking to support not only this bill, but a large enough number of people with disabilities in Ukraine who really need help. In order for these people to receive attention not only from the Supreme Council, parliamentarians, but also from the state, and to be able to provide at the expense of local funds, other sources of funding, to support these people so that social services are paid for to be properly supervised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u181	Thank you, Valery Illich. I invite the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevitch Valeri Mikhajlovich. From the site, please, Valery Mikhailovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u182	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. National Deputy Suškević, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, the committee at its April session last year has considered this bill, which aims at legislativeizing the establishment and payment of compensation payments to individuals who provide social services as well as establishing a source of funding for these services. Usually these are the costs of local budgets that are included, and I want to emphasize this in terms of the amount of inter-budget transfers. I want to make a little bit more clear to the author that this is about compensation payments for social services, not about the directions and other questions that Valérie Illich said. I am personally grateful to the drafter of the bill because I am the author of the social services law myself. I believe that today there is an absolute need to improve the legislative framework that has a bearing on social services. But what I want to say is that, in principle, this rule, the standard for compensation payments to individuals for social services, for social services, is in principle regulated by the relevant regulation, regulation 558 of 29 April 2004. My esteemed colleague Valérie Illrich Konovaluk, he suggested that the rules of regulation should be regulated by Ukrainian legislation. In principle, it's a normal situation, it's a practice of execution. The only thing I want to say is that, of course, there may be moments when sometimes it is necessary to regulate more quickly from the Cabinet of Ministers and it will be a little more difficult to regulate this rule if it is implemented by the law of Ukraine. In general, the committee supported the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u183	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u184	The main scientific and expert office has some comments on the project, particularly those I said, which are actually questioning the relevance of legislative regulation in the event that the Cabinet of Ministers needs to make appropriate changes. But I think this bill has the right to support and the committee has supported it in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u185	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich, for the discussion of this bill. Please log in. We're working on a reduced procedure. Two-for, two-again. Please show who is ready to discuss the matter. Vladimir Yavorowski, next is Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u186	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", town of Kirovograd, 100 district. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I don't share a lot of political views, the author of this bill by Konovaluk, but I must admit that in this situation I am completely in solidarity with him. Because he, this bill, is designed to solve, indeed, one of the painful domestic social problems of Ukrainian society. Indeed, those who care for the disabled are, in fact, governed by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers today, and it is very good that we are translating it into the law required for enforcement. Because of this, Yulia Timoshenko will support this bill. It is very important indeed, there is one single observation to the author, and I am convinced that it is necessary to do so, both in the first and second readings and not immediately accept it. Because today to shift this problem to local budgets only means that this law will normally be empty. I mean, you know, we have local budgets where you can't find anything like a "church mouse" or anything like that. Because of this, it is obvious that in much of Ukraine, this bill will simply not be decided, there will be no funding under it. I'm convinced that we have to think about it and maybe translate it anyway, because we all think that this is a very important problem, taking care of those people who can't help themselves without us, without human help, they can't possibly live and exist, maybe throw it into the state budget, because the local budgets can't solve this problem, that's my opinion and position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u187	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u188	Vladimir Karpuk, Party “Our Ukraine”, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. We also support this legislative initiative, which deals with a very important issue of compensation for people who provide social services to people with disabilities, especially the elderly, with disabled children from behind the wheel, who need constant foreign assistance. Of course, to this day this compensation is small and is a small part of the time and the physical effort that these people are taking to help the sick. We realize that the proportion of these people in society is significant and needs to be helped both by the State Budget and paid from the local budget as stipulated by legislation. However, it should also be borne in mind that many local budgets are unable to compensate even partially or to compensate people who provide social services. And even with the adoption of this budget, although there are no clear financial accounts, I would like to hear it from the Cabinet of Ministers, but there are no financial accounts. But even with this bill, that percentage of compensation to the disabled of 1 group of 15 percent of the living minimum, to the disabled 2 group of 10 percent, to the disabled 3 group of 7 percent, is not the money it takes to pay social services and to perform an overly important social function in our country. We will vote for this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, do I appeal to representatives of those factions who did not participate in the discussion, and no one insists that your position speak? I can't see. Dear colleagues, Oleg Zarubinsky, please, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u190	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. The Lithuanian Block faction will vote on the basis of this bill. Given that any payments have to be made, any compensation has to be regulated by law. Everyone understands that people are affected, people who are still carrying a heavy life burden, the money that is currently being allocated is not enough, even for, sorry for that term, physiological existence. And that's why where there's a desire for a lawmaker, the legislator to regulate that issue. In order for this to not depend on changing the situation, including the political one, we need to be supported; in the first reading, we will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the offer was to listen to the government’s opinion, including the Ministry of Finance. Sergey Alexanderovich Rybak is here, I understand. Please, the deputy minister's microphone, the government's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u192	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Ministry of Finance generally supports this opinion, if, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, do not see in this the limitations of operationality in solving this issue, i.e., these issues are raised to the level of decision of the Supreme Council, not as they are now regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers Order, and may be subject to operational changes resulting from the current situation on these issues. If national MPs feel that way, in general, we do not deny this idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u193	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Social Services in Ukraine. [[on the establishment and payment of compensation payments to natural persons]] [[Registration number 1409]] Please vote on the basis. [[13:24:33]] For 366 The decision has been made. The factions, please. Region Party: 160, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 127, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 31, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 2. It's almost total consensus. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities. [[on the support of persons who care for children with disabilities]] Registration number 2231. Dear colleagues, we have been asked by the co-author of the bill, Mr. Feldman Alexander Borisovich, to convey the word to the co-rapporteur, and so I understand, the co-author, Mr. Suškevich Valeri Mikhajlovich, the head of the committee. So, Valery Mikhailovich, please turn on the microphone. What is the full - time offer or the short - lived offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u194	I propose a short procedure to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u195	Let's, colleagues, support Valery Mikhailovich, by the summary procedure of this important bill. Please vote. [[13:26:02]] For 281 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Instead, considering that Alexander Borisovich is referring the word Valery Mikhailovich, four minutes to Valery Mikhailovich. Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u196	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. National Deputy Suškević, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! I want to report an extremely socially important bill that touches the mothers of children with disabilities. I'm saying "mommy," because unfortunately, many, most families where children are disabled, they're incomplete, and the point is that they're concerned with supporting a child disability allowance that needs constant foreign care, regardless of the parental or other care provider. The bill is aimed at strengthening the special support of these families, and today I, as the author of the Law on State Social Assistance for Children with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities, am absolutely supporting this bill in terms of what it is, even when it comes to social bills, that they have issues related to social costs, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today there is an alternative to a family with a disabled child, especially in a part-time family, or that mother is dragging this child with disabilities for the rest of her life or. or a boarding house, state maintenance and the corresponding costs of the state. So in this situation, when it comes to predicting an allowance for the care of a disabled child regardless of the fact of the mother's work, the mother who takes care of this child, I don't think there's a way of thinking about it. And I hope you will support this bill today. What I'm saying is that the previous composition of the government, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Scientific and Experimental Authority supports this bill being adopted in the first reading. And once again, the language goes not only today, and not so much on the social cost of the allowance to care for children with disabilities, as what today is, I'm sorry, the economy of the state, when instead of internal institutions, parents who have children with disabilities take all the trouble, the burden, the social burden to pull and help and bring this child out of the world with disabilities. Please support this bill in the first reading. Our committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, unanimously supported this legislative initiative of the National MP Feldman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u197	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, who is ready to engage in the discussion? Vladimir Karpuk will be followed by Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u198	Vladimir Karpuk, Party “Our Ukraine”, deputy faction “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! The legislative initiative is very short. It is proposed that article 3 of the Law on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities be supplemented by the following: the allowance for the care of a disabled child who needs permanent foreign care is granted regardless of the fact of work. That is, whether the adoptive parent, the caregiver, or the caregiver actually works, that is how help is provided. I think, given the addition that the bill is proposed to be implemented not as of 1 January 2009, as in the bill, but as in 2011 and with the view of the legal authorities to adopt it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u199	Thank you. Wait a minute, Oleg, Oleg Lazko, the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u200	Thank you. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Our colleague Alexander Borisovich Feldman's bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons and Children with Disabilities. [[on the support of persons who care for children with disabilities]] In particular, the bill suggests that the child’s allowance, which requires constant foreign care, is assigned irrespective of the fact that the caregiver is working. What are you talking about? The point is that today, if there is a disabled child and a family, a father or a mother is working, state aid is not being assigned. We propose that this injustice be eliminated and that this state aid be paid whether the person who takes care of the disabled child works or does not work. The price of 200 million dollars a year. But that seems to be a lot. And the Ministry of Finance, he's obviously going to deny it. It's not obvious, but it'll definitely deny it. But at the same time, let's count it. There are figures, how much does a state spend on keeping children with disabilities in boarding schools, where parents, because they don't have the financial capacity to support these children, put them on the Internet? So every month, the government spending on keeping children with disabilities in boarding schools is 2,000 dollars, and the state aid to persons caring for children with disabilities is just over 700 dollars per month, over 6 years, 900 dollars per month. I mean, if we accept this change today, we're going to be in addition to the cost of the state budget, because the family will get the necessary state aid, and as a result, they won't turn the disabled child into an appropriate boarding school. Therefore, it is imperative to uphold this law, all the more so as to include a relatively small number of persons to whom the law will be applied. It's 90,000 today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u201	Finish up, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u202	Today, 90,000 men or women receive this corresponding government assistance. If we accept these changes, it's an additional 40,000 Ukrainian citizens who, unfortunately, have such a disaster, children with disabilities in their families, will finally receive the necessary state aid. It's not very big. Because what is 700 dollars per month of government aid? But God willing to let them have the 700 dollars, and we will continue to look for opportunities to increase this necessary state aid for these categories of citizens. The Yulia Timoshenko faction will vote in favour of this law. And we call on all other factions of Parliament to support this social orientation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an opportunity to express your point of view to factions who have failed to register. Alexander Stoyan of the faction of the region. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u204	It is unfortunate that the previous government, when it appointed the aid to the disabled, came out of the concept of “the level of provision of a subsistence minimum”. And this level of security came out of the budget. And here's what we paid for a penny for this category of people. Today, a very important proposal has really been made that will be voted for by the first - reading pariah of the regions. It's about what, really, whether the mother works or whether the father works or the mother works, but helping to keep the disabled child needs to be provided. Why? Because it's very difficult to take care of this child -- it's appropriate, it's appropriate, it's appropriate, it's appropriate, it's appropriate, it's appropriate, it's appropriate food, it's if you have to hire a person to sit next to this child if the parents are working. And this is a huge cost, and that's why we see that there's definitely tens of millions of budget expenditures here, but I think, even though the budget has left us the previous government zero, the government of Azarov will find an opportunity and implement this rule of law. We support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u205	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the very correct opinion that the chairman of the committee Valeriy Suškevitch said. And that's the point that the vast majority of families, where children are disabled, are poor families, first of all, and second of all, they're single families. In such a situation, these families, these children, both mothers, are given the opportunity to do so, in most cases not only to compensate or compensate for material damage, but also correctly stated in the explanatory note, the enormous psychoemotional losses suffered by the family, are no longer complete when a person is a disabled child. I think that in the first reading it would be absolutely right to vote and the faction of the “Livina Block” supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u207	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u208	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Finance says that they believe this bill costs about 400 million dollars a year. It's probably what's real about it. But let's think about something else. 400 million should be given to those who care for the disabled. Because if we don't give these 400 million to those who can take care of their families more care of them, and take care of them at a better level than possible, if they don't have one, if they don't have one, if they don't have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, they're going to have to take care of these children, and if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're not have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if they're going to have one, if But one thing is parenting within the family, and also in your own family, and the outcome: and what kind of person will grow up, and what generation will be. And the second situation is when it's in the shelter, well, sorry or whatever. Or orphans, orphanages, or whatever.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u209	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u210	So, as you can see, I specifically conducted this analogy to show that we're not economical anyway. Therefore, let us give this money to the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u211	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues. Is the Ministry of Finance insisting? Please, Sergey Alexanderovich Rybak, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, the additional expenses amount to 423 million dollars, which will have to be funded for this purpose. But the Ministry of Finance thinks it's necessary to point out that along with this proposal, which is, in fact, social, and there's no objection here, there's no proposal to shorten those places on the Internet that you're talking about right now. That's why we would suggest to those who are drafting this bill: we don't mind reorienting financial flows with a view to making them more clear and purposeful to come to a particular person, but to the developers, once again, I stress, we need to submit a balanced project to show how much the institutions are cutting down on the Internet, how much we are saving. And so the Ministry of Finance will also have to take this into account in that budget project that is currently being developed and in which you propose to provide these additional 423 million. In that case, for the second reading, I ask you to rework this question, and we will take part in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u213	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. I understood the position of a government that conceptually supports and believes that between the first and the second readings, adjustments can be made to make the law work and act. The committee's asking for a basis. Please vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities as a basis. Please vote. Now we're going to vote for the basis. [[13:39:19]] For 364 Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. I see, from the procedure, forward, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, the honourable chairman, we have seen that this law applies to the most vulnerable of the population and that it cannot wait long. So I have a proposal, where we wrote it, that was written in the law, in the project, since January 1st, but it's clearly out of date, because it was introduced on March 18th, 2008. He's been lying with us for two years. He's been lying here for over two years. That's why we have to write. Yes, it's in our government, that's how it is. I'm telling the Communists to let you know that he's been lying around for two years, you didn't want to miss him here, in the hall, just so you know. So I suggest you write: "from the moment of publication" and adopt the law as a whole. Still, we haven't accepted the budget yet. We'll take the budget now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u215	Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I want you to look, heads of committees, how many laws on disability are lying there and not moving. And now I'm asking for this reaction, which was that for a long time there are bills, look at how many lie, that's the first. Secondly, you know, I support the distinguished National Deputy Karpuk, who said, one sentence in this bill: “The allowance for the care of a disabled child who needs constant foreign care is assigned regardless of the fact of the work.” Dear friends, dear colleagues, this is a normal option and today it can be accepted as a whole. That's what the Ministry of Finance says. Dear colleagues, I want to say that a single mom can't take a child to the boarding school, it's going to be known a little bit later, it's going to be very hard to calculate, but this stream is unfortunately there. There's a time when there's no way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u217	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u218	In an insolvent way, children with disabilities are placed in boarding facilities because a single mother cannot bring up the situation. So I propose to vote on this bill as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u219	So, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, position of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I'm surprised that if we want to adopt the law, let's be logical, and if we want populism to work and break this law, you will succeed. The representative of the Ministry of Finance made it clear that a financial basis was needed for the law to be implemented. You've been telling us the same thing over the last two years on the same issues. And when we passed the Social Standards Act, you insisted that there be sources of coverage. Today you say, let's do it tomorrow without a foundation, nothing. I therefore propose, and our faction has supported the consideration of the bill and will consider it further, but provided that it is finalized for the second reading and that the law is fulfilled, that it will indicate the sources from which the law will be filled. And let's introduce it as of 1 January 2011. Then it will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u221	Oleg Easy and we'll finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u222	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues! I think the logic of what Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov just said is that we need to find sources of funding, and we need to give these sources to the second reading. And here we have to support the Ministry of Finance and our colleagues from power. But since parents who care for children with disabilities need this assistance immediately, there is now a proposal to vote in favour of preparing this bill for a second reading on a reduced procedure. The following week, take it into the hall and accept it as a whole in order to include it in the 2010 expenses. Because by 2011, we don't know how many families where children with disabilities are going to break up, whether they're going to put those poor kids on the Internet because the state can't provide the help they need. I think we should not lose any days if we have the opportunity to help these unhappy families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u223	Thank you. Since there have been objections to now being adopted as a whole, I would like to put the proposal to the vote to a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. [[13:44:24]] For-174 The factions? Please show the factions. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 119, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 30, communists – 25, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 0. We are preparing the bill in accordance with the rules of the Rules. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. We have two bills: 1017, 1017-1. Reporters: Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich and Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich May I see Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka's report, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, the problem of returning savings is very sharp and virtually every election campaign is a problem of speculation to draw our voters' attention to the support of a political power. I would like to inform you that some 11 billion dollars have been paid for 12 years, starting in 1997. It's a practical job in these years of independence. Also to inform you that the law was passed on 21 November 1996 – on State guarantees for the restoration of Ukrainian citizens' savings, which also required the State to guarantee the return of these savings. This law entered into force since 1997, but on January 17, 97, the Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Savings has ruled out that lost savings relate to Ukraine's domestic debt. Since then, the State’s obligation to pay off the valueless savings of its citizens has ceased to be part of the structure of the State’s internal debt and not to be approved by the Supreme Council. What did this lead to? This has led to almost 111 billion dollars for the peoples of Ukraine to be blamed on the savings that were at the beginning of the nation's independence. I would also like to inform you about what is practically the amount of money and the amount of money that is allocated for the return of savings, the rate is going to be that if the quantities that are expected to return in 2009 or in 2010, it's going to take 400 years. So you realize that virtually the state has refused to guarantee the return of deposits. You and I are witnesses that the previous government, including when Timoshenko went to the polls and the Block of Timoshenko, they promised that within two years the State's commitment to investment savings would be eliminated, that is to say, the problem would be solved. But these promises remained promises. And among those more than 12 million citizens of Ukraine, who were only six million investors, a little over six million received one thousand. Everything else has turned into a chat and empty promises. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that monthly and annual losses of purchasing power, unreturned savings, occur. Just for example, 2008 and 2009. You know, in 2008, inflation was more than 22%, almost 20% of it came in 2009. Thus our citizens’ savings are being destroyed and there is no way for them today to feel that the state really cares about their future and protects all that has been earned honestly in their work in Soviet times. What the Communist faction is proposing and I'm presenting our project today, I suggest you do the following. First, in order to ensure the return of the State irrespective of the political forces in power, it is necessary to amend the law on State guarantees to restore Ukraine's citizens' savings. This article 4, notes that the definition in article 1 of the Civil Savings Act refers to Ukraine’s national domestic debt, part of Ukraine’s national domestic debt. Here is how much it amounted to on October 1, 1996, and what it was, let's say, savings, it's money savings, it's insurance contributions, it's government debt, it's government interest-free loans in 1990, it's government domestic debt bonds in 1982, it's government treasury liabilities in the USSR, it's certificates from the USSR Savings Bank. Thus, we clearly determine that the State is under an obligation to compensate, that is, to return all that relates to the savings of our citizens. It is also proposed that the 6th article be included in the draft law. I propose that compensation to Ukrainian citizens for the loss of money savings should be made, starting when our decision is made and in cash only, at the expense of the state budget, at the rate of at least the increase in gross domestic product received in the year preceding that fiscal year. And by decision of the government and the National Bank of Ukraine, also at the expense of 50% of the funds received from the privatization and gold reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine. Costs to compensate savings in the State budget are intended to be determined by a separate article. I also propose that, honourable colleagues, complete the 9th article with the following content: “In agreement with the investors, compensation for unpaid citizens’ money contributions may be made through cash-free calculations from indexed deposits, primarily with the disabled of the first, second and third groups and pensioners.” For what exactly? I'm addressing you, honourable voters, and I'm proposing to make a list that provides that we can pay for certain services: housing, utility, electricity, solid fuel, gas; this is the purchase of medicines, treatment, orthopaedic and dental prosthetics; this is the installation of a phone, the payment of electricity; this is the teaching of children and grandchildren in educational institutions; this is the repair and acquisition of housing; this is the acquisition of cars. So you can see that there's a specific list of laws that can be used to make these savings that the investor has used primarily to improve the living conditions of a particular person. And as I complete this brief draft of the Law, once again, I appeal to you, your honourable colleagues, the time has come to answer for all that is being done in the state of Ukraine during 18 years of independence. Since 97, the national MPs, I'm sorry, but they've been deceiving voters by making applications, and when the electoral campaign is over, they never do what they did. I ask you to support this project. And the decision we make will allow people today to feel that, indeed, no matter what political power the government is formed, which political power the state should be responsible for every year for the real return of savings. The sources of return here are defined in this draft law, as well as the basic order of our state, in terms of organization, organization, management, use of our property, order with the shadow economy, fighting corruption all of this, and will be those real sources of the state budget for you to return what people have earned -- blood and then. And that they should use, first of all, to improve their living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u225	Dear colleagues! If you have not objected, we are working fully to ask Peter Mikolayovich a question and he will answer. And after the adjournment of the evening session, we resumed the discussion, because we're not going to be in the game in 15 minutes, we're going to have a full procedure, we're going to have a debate for at least half an hour. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please show me. Yuri Karmazin, next is Vladimir Bondarenko. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u226	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you a few questions. in article 9, you make changes, you suggest, in my view, good things to be accounted for cashlessly by the consent of the investors to make compensation. So I care how you propose to do it. That's what the budget is for this year, so this year they're determined that they're coming back to you, so I'm telling you, Peter Mikolayovich, you understand me, right? That this man is to be returned. Is this about those in cash that do not qualify for payment, that is, do not fall under Article 6, the difference between 6 and 9 of the article? It's just the cashlessness of the calculation, or the fact that they don't fit in with the budget for this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u227	Clearly, the question is clear, please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u228	First of all, you got the right idea and you pointed out that the 6th article I'm proposing, I want to read it again, so that both our radio audiences and the TV audiences understand, 6th article foresees: “Compensation to Ukrainian citizens of the loss of savings is taking place, starting only in monetary form at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine to the extent that the gross domestic product generated in the year is growing to the extent that we can use it.” [[It's only here that the term has to be changed, because it's clear that this bill was prepared earlier.]] And the 9th article allows us to use the opportunity not only in money form, because here, in addition to these same ones, let's say this list where it can be used cashlessly, and this is basically municipal property, you notice whether it's state property, or whether it's municipal property. And you can spend here, but it can also benefit from getting the cash and then buying the things that it wants to buy personally. So you've rightly pointed out that the quantity is clearly defined by 6 articles, and this is just a list.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u229	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u230	A list of services that he can pay cashlessly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u231	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, your question, please, "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." Vladimir Dmitrovitch, you've got a five-second microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u232	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Your Honor, you have quite clearly stressed that these payments were made at different times, and people today remember well, 6 million Ukrainian citizens have received full compensation for what they have saved, under the government of Yulia Timoshenko. I think the new government is going to continue this tradition, even though I feel it will take as long as possible to resolve this issue, perhaps for 2011 or 2012, as it has been said here today. But I also have a specific question for you. You were talking about cash-free compensation under Article 9 and you called the housing "repair and acquisition". I would suggest adding a building for those who do not have an apartment, “renovation, construction and acquisition”. It completely changes the formula, and it would allow our building industry to work and that would be, well, a positive way of using it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u233	You know, I'm happy to support your offer. And once again, I want to point out that, as you can see, this bill was prepared and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council long ago. And it's lying there and it's not being considered for different reasons, and I'm not going to analyze it right now, but you've got it right, and we're really going to do second reading by preparing this project, and we're going to make your proposal, and I'm convinced that most people here understand that this is something that needs to be clearly supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u234	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u235	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", 100 constituency, city of Kirovograd. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" with all the voices in it fully supports your bill, because it completely matches the ideologies of BUTU, and you know that Julia Timoshenko, as if it were not the intention of our President and not the constant opposition to this ideology, is to return the money he has earned to the people. It's probably not going to be 6 million today, it's going to be more than a little bit of the people that got that money. As a result, we thank you for introducing this bill. Today, we will examine who is really hurting the standard of living of our people, especially those of the older generation. Well, the only thing I think is, if we have 131 billion of this debt there today, I think you want half of it at the expense of privatization, and it's totally, really, I think that all the money we're going to take for privatization should have been directed to that. Because it's these older people, they're building these factories, these objects that are going to be privatized. It's about the gold coins.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u236	Finish up, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u237	I'm done. It's about gold coins. Do you think this 65 billion is going to draw this great Ukrainian new government that is running the country today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u238	You know, you and I are just witnessing that Ukraine's gold reserves are disappearing somewhere. And first, let's say we defined, well I mean last year, we had 28 billion. Then, let's say, by 16, it's gone somewhere. So I would suggest that we make a clear use of it, including from the gold reserve, that people of Ukrainian citizens get, not by someone machining, that manipulation destroyed Ukraine's national wealth, and that citizens of Ukraine get, and that's the support of the domestic producer, that's the development of our internal market. And as for the fact that, really, where this money went, and I would like this thesis, when people are accused of stealing it, they were realized in Soviet times just in order to build jobs for future generations. They just put the money into savings, and the money went to factories, factories, housing, hospitals, roads, that is, all that remained in Ukraine. Here you have to figure out how this property is used and why what humans have created.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u239	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u240	And today it's only in the pockets of a small pile. And I support your position. Let's, including where it all goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u241	Paul Sulkowski, Party of the factions of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u242	Thank you. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! You know, I fully support your logic, your position, but you know what the previous government has left for today's government about the economy and we're going to talk about banking and financial problems. And that's why Julia Timoshenko, what they're saying, just fed on populist slogans, hopes, deception and so on. Now, you, Peter Mikolaiovich, are making a good offer, but I think it would be better if we made a commitment to the government today to take it seriously and figure out what steps to take to resolve the matter. And I think the following year would be right, because this year in the budget, Peter Mikolaiovich, will be a lie if we say that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u243	I've got the position. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. Peter Mikolaiovich, answer. I understood the position that there is no money in the budget this year. We heard. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u244	Dear colleague, I would like to say that we really need to give a critical assessment of the activities of the previous government. And I'm convinced that we need to take it very seriously, based on the law as it worked. But I have a task ahead of me, as well as what the government today must do to address this problem. And it is clear that radical measures must be taken here. I'm going back to the same monopoly on the same vodka, on the same tobacco, and it's an additional revenue to the state budget, it's state control over our natural fossils, for the nadras, it's a gas well and an oil well, so let's say, those who sit on it didn't, let's say, suck it up, and it all went into our state treasury. This includes the use of profits from the banking system and strict control of the banking system. And these examples, like where to take money for the modern government, I can give you a lot. We should get it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u245	Finish up, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u246	take responsibility and say clearly that in these circumstances we will act decisively to implement this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u247	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u248	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, in your speech, you made the most correct statement: The time has come to answer, the time of responsibility. In this regard, I will not repeat any questions that have already been asked about your bill. But you understand very well that very many citizens, in fact, all of Ukraine's citizens have suffered from a slight exclusion and from another affair, the early 90s affair, whose ideologists are so-called talented reformers. By the way, some of them are in the session room today. I'm talking about manipulating and deceiving people like voucher privatization. You know that as a result, people have lost their real share of government property. And today they have no dividends, nothing. You don't think it would be possible to take a comprehensive look at your legislative initiative to find out where these vouchers are and why people don't pay dividends? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u249	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. But I'd like to answer why I came up like that. I came up from what was a period, a period like a boundary. So they're starting to build. People had these savings. They are actually realized in material values in Ukraine. They have to get it back because they're Ukrainian citizens. And there's a new part of our story after the 91st year. And here I agree with you. Let's also remember this voucher privatization. Let's not forget the trust company where it went. We won't forget the credit card companies now either. 'Cause we've got it all coming down like a cow's tongue. It's gone, and no one's responsible for anything. And no one's in jail yet. That's why I support your position. Let's either continue or work further together on the new draft law in order to bring all these problems to normalize them in terms of solving them in the interests of the individual.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-13-m0.u250	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Question - and - answer time is up. As we agreed, after the break, we will listen to the report by Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, discuss the matter with us a matter that is important and painful, and we will make a decision. So let's get back to work at 4:00. And now the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
