ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:49]] Cards were registered in the 326 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please welcome a colleague, wish him success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 2 December 2010. 33 questions on the agenda have been considered: 16 laws and 15 regulations have been passed, 4 bills have been returned to the committee for further work, 2 bills and one draft decree have been rejected; two laws have been adopted in a new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, pursuant to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of non-majority MPs made a proposal – during an hour of questioning to the government to listen to government members on economic reforms in Ukraine. Presented members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine headed by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Sergei Leonidovich Tihypk. Deputies: "The House of July Timoshenko - "The Fatherland", the block "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", the Communist Party, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions that will be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Therefore, the proposal is such, honourable colleagues: half an hour are the answers to the questions written by the faction “BUT – Fatherland”, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, a faction of Communists. Then -- half an hour of direct communication in question mode -- answers from the national MPs. Is there no objection? Tom, I invite you to the rostrum of Vice Prime Minister Tihypak Sergio Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, because now, you know, there are new constitutional realities, and since we have agreed with you that an hour of questions to the government is the right of factions that are not in the majority, we are working on this procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, Sergey Leonidovich will answer your current written questions. You know, a minute to ask, two minutes to answer. Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u2	Thank you. Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, ladies and gentlemen! First question, the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko - Fatherland. Your Tax Code does not answer the question: How do you get out of the shadows a large capital that pays taxes, not in the government’s treasury, but in the pockets of high corruptionists? Do you have the answer? First. I wanted to thank you for yesterday's adoption of the Tax Code and the fact that it was not easy to go through, I think it's perfectly understandable because it touches virtually all Ukrainian citizens. But what's important is that we found the right compromise and at this point I'm convinced that it should satisfy both the Cabinet of Ministers and entrepreneurs. What must be done to legalize a large, medium and small business? In my opinion, clearly, and we tried to do this and to do it through the Tax Code. What we wanted, what we wanted to achieve. First. You need to reduce tax burden on all businesses and, most importantly, expand the field, the tax base. That's why tax cuts were proposed, and we're talking about lower income taxes. We remember that from the following year it will fall by 2 percent. We have proposed a reduction in VAT to 17 percent since 2014. Tax cuts on dividends are up to 5 percent and so on. But on the other hand, we've been trying to strengthen administration and close down those shadow schemes that allow today big business, medium business, small business to drain money from taxation. Well, there are some steps I can report right now. It is forbidden to include in the taxpayer’s expenses for the expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of nonresident consulting services, marketing, advertising, engineering, in addition to the expenses incurred for the permanent representation of nonresidents who are taxpayers. These operations took us billions of dollars, billions of dollars. Now I'm convinced that this amount of money is going to be reduced. Setting a limit to 4 percent of the revenue from the realization of products, goods, jobs, and services.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u3	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u4	Royalty payments in favour of non-residents and payers who are exempt from income tax or pay this tax at a different rate. In previous legislation, there were no restrictions on the conclusion of the Royalty. Also, billions of dollars have been paid abroad, including 4 percent will now limit these enumerations. There is a transfer of insurance activities to a general system of taxation with the introduction of an annual transitional period that will allow competitors to resume working conditions in the financial market. We also know that because of the insurance system, especially in small insurance companies, it was possible to wash or optimize taxes. That's not going to happen right now. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u5	Sergey Leonidovich, I apologize because the MPs are indignant. Let's ask within two minutes to answer. You, what questions there, call it writing and answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u6	So you want to shorten the answers?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u7	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u8	Okay. Okay. When will an offshoring agreement with Kiprom be cancelled or denuncified, in just 9 months of the current year’s removal of $24 billion from Ukraine, the amount of unpaid taxes is over 40 billion dollars? I'm not going to talk about numbers. In my opinion, these numbers are outnumbered. But I can say that the reconciliation of the draft of the new Ukrainian-Cyprus Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation has been ongoing since 1997. In 2006, the project was initialled by the parties, it was already practical, it was ready for this agreement. The Cypriot side postponed the signing of the project four times, and in March 2008, it completely refused to sign the convention, referring to the comments it had received. The process of final alignment with the new requirements of the Cypriot side may be slowing down. I've personally given 3 orders to speed up this process, but so far, the Foreign Ministry says it's hard enough to hold these negotiations because for us the Cypriot side, for many politicians, entrepreneurs is an offshore zone, but it's a country of the European Union. And here, these negotiations are complicated enough. In the near future, if the Cypriot side does not give us an answer and does not continue to work constructively with us, we will offer unilaterally appropriate steps that will lead us to enter into a mutually acceptable agreement between Ukraine and the Cypriot side. Question three. In the case of the introduction of repressive rules of the new Tax Code, experts believe that jobs will lose between 2 million and 5 million people. Are there so many jobs in black metallurgy and in the chemical industry, as officials have assured? I'd like to give you a brief review. The total number of entrepreneurs, simplified workers, and legal persons, and individuals, is 1 million 316 thousand. They're the ones who work alone. Today, they hire their employees to work. Today, there are 1 million 279 thousand hired workers. So that's all that's working in this system today is officially 2 million 595 thousand people. I'd like to give you one more statement. That, according to the scope of implementation, those enterprises that are registered on a simplified system of taxation have the following figures: 85 percent of them have an amount of up to 300,000 dollars. The ones they're officially showing. So if the right decisions were to be made, it would be great. We wouldn't have had a large reduction in the number of working people. But yesterday's decision -- the system, the simplified tax system, remained the way it is. That is why we will not speak today. Because virtually all of this remains in the same position as it was. Question four. At $1.6 billion from the International Monetary Fund, you are recklessly pursuing conditions that they do not. In particular, an increase in the retirement age for women under 60 years of age. Where can you find so many jobs if a woman in Ukraine is at 35 years of age having difficulty getting a job? First, with regard to pension reform, we are preparing the first phase of the pension reform that we would like to do by the end of this year. Next year will be the second stage. The first step is to solve the problem of reducing the pension deficit and changing the trend, which is constantly increasing this deficit. In 2009, we had 19 billion -- a deficit in the Pension Fund. This year we're going to have about 26 billion. And for the next year, if we don't change anything, this trend is going to increase. But we've already made a whole series of decisions, and the government's economic bloc has been involved. And now the Cabinet of Ministers will be considering these decisions in the near future. What will be stopped and what steps will be taken or will be proposed to the Supreme Council for a short time, by December 10, this bill will be submitted to the Supreme Council. There will be an increase in the retirement age for women, the Cabinet of Ministers will decide as soon as possible. But when it comes to jobs, I would like to point out that jobs primarily depend on the investments that the state can make, especially the private sector in our economy. Unfortunately, both by state investment and by investment from foreign investors, we're taking our investors very seriously. When it comes to public investment, they never make up more than 2 percent of GDP, and we have to make 5 to 6 percent of GDP. And then we can keep our infrastructure, which is constantly losing its position in ratings, and without proper infrastructure it's very difficult to involve investors. And we have to do the same for investors, because one job doesn't cost about $30 or $40,000. That's what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u9	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u10	High-tech jobs cost about $100,000, which is more serious investment. For a million high-tech jobs, we need $100 billion. This can only be made on the basis of private equity. That's why we're in jobs and pension reform and we're offering a whole range of concrete decisions. Next question. The year of the new government's work has been marked by a fierce rise in prices for food, services, rising housing and utility tariffs, by the way, not by the government's dwindling efforts to protect the wide range of poverty. As to how we can now help those who are suffering from price increases, I would like to put it this way. First. In the country, there is a system that is operated by appropriate legislation that allows the price jump of every quarter to raise the corresponding, to raise the minimum wage, to raise the minimum subsistence, subsistence minimum, and the first tariff of the network. What it does. This gives such a system the indexation of pensions, wages, and, above all, the poorest of the population. With regard to this year, in the current year, the state has raised the minimum wage five times, the minimum wage, the minimum wage, and the daily wage. The last promotion took place on December 1, 2010. Including a minimum wage increase of 53 bracelets, a subsistence minimum of 39 dollars, and 2.2 million pensioners index their pensions. That's the mechanism. And it's expected to work for the next financial year. With regard to municipal tariffs, you know that the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared an appropriate decision that has allowed the poor to help themselves. And it predicts that utilities should not make up more than 15 percent of the family’s income and more than 10 percent of the family, where there are families with disabilities, underage children, and pensioners. By means of such a mechanism, we can compensate for the problems that people face.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u11	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u12	Some 600,000 of our families received such compensation in the previous year. By now a million and 150,000 families have developed such subsidies and are about to receive them. We predict that this process will continue, and at least in relation to the previous year, the number of families receiving subsidies will increase by two. The deputy faction of our Ukraine. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Question one. Although we haven't seen the country's socio-economic development programme for 2011 yet, we haven't seen a single budget that's formed on any basis to understand the logic of power, the perspective of the country's development. In particular, this means that both documents — both the programme and the country’s budget — will be reviewed and approved in a fire order. And they will carry political rather than economic meaning. Do you not think that under such conditions, some of the documents will be extremely low, cause significant contradictions, prevent businesses and regions from forming their own budgets and a clear vision of the country’s development? Do you not think that the adoption of important documents in violation of existing basic legislative acts, such as the Budget Code, is now to be considered in 2011 on third reading, is not acceptable at all? Honourable National MPs are known to have submitted a draft Ukrainian National Budget Act 2011 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me remind you that this bill was sent on September 13th of this year. Its parameters were based on an active tax base. In parallel, as you know, in July, the Supreme Council adopted Decree 2454 on the application of the draft Tax Code to the public discussion. Also, on September 7, you, honourable national deputies, heard the results of the discussion of the Tax Code and confirmed that the budget should be based solely on a new tax base. So now we're predicting after you adopted the Tax Code yesterday practically, and the Ministry of Finance has all the bases for calculation, has all the bases for budgeting, we predict that by December 10 the budget will be introduced to the Supreme Council. At the same time, we will be able to work quickly on Ukraine's socio-economic development programme for 2011 and will also transfer it to the Supreme Council. The other one. The tightening of the simplified tax system, which is now in the day - to - day order, is forced to increase taxpayers ’ involvement in business activities, which certainly includes a corrupt component. For example, a tax collector can afford not to accept tax reports in companies if the latter do not pay for services called services. Does the government see measures to prevent corruption? If so, what are the most effective measures you have called? Well, first of all, the simplified tax system has remained practically complete, so we're not going to talk about it, but we've been trying to make a whole bunch of decisions in the Tax Code to reduce the corruption component, including, first of all, in the tax administration. Yes, the code defines the final list of rights, obligations and responsibilities of both payers and control bodies; regulates the relationship between taxpayers and supervisory authorities in carrying out checks; and clearly defines the responsibility for tax infringements not only by taxpayers but also by officials. Public Tax Office officials; a risk-oriented tax verification system is in place; tax reporting to tax authorities is in place. However, all of this will reduce the human factor’s impact on the decision - making process of tax administration. An important position that is specifically aimed at protecting the payer’s property institution is the prohibition of tax collection, the alienation of property as decided by the supervisor of the controlling body. Such a procedure can now be carried out only in a court of law. It is also certainly positive that the code clearly defines the principle of the presumption of the rightfulness of the taxpayer’s decisions. The next step in the fight against corruption in the tax system should be to reorganize the tax authorities and increase the management function of the Ministry of Finance. That's why I think it's the first! – steps in the direction of reducing corruption, first of all in the tax authorities, we have taken steps through the adoption of the Tax Code. In the proposed government. Next question. “In a proposed government draft of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation, the amount of income for carrying out economic activity under a simplified system of taxation without applying accounting registers should not exceed 821 bracelets per day. Has the government been able to pay the salaries of employees, rent the commercial area, and pay all taxes and contributions to the social funds for themselves and employees? Once again, the simplified system remains the way it is now. There's a lot to talk about right now, maybe we shouldn't talk about it anymore. We will continue this work with entrepreneurs, and we will conduct the corresponding calculations as discussed. Once again, according to official statistics, 85 percent of single taxpayers report annual incomes that do not exceed 300,000 dollars. And 14 and a half percent of the simplifieds report incomes that exceed 300,000 dollars. Next question. Have the government calculated how many jobs will be reduced as a result of the government’s proposed reduction in the number of workers who may be in employment relationships with the operator using a simplified system of taxation? The simplified system has remained as it is. So I don't think that's relevant right now. I've said that before. Fifth. You called the national discussion “major” and said that it was impossible to listen to ordinary people during economic reforms. By what categories do you define those not ordinary people, according to your terminology, “experts” who have the exclusive right to determine whether economic legislation or reforms are wrong? Are they not the best experts in this realm of people who daily experience shortcomings and gaps in the legislative base? First of all, it was tax legislation, not all the reforms or actions of the government. When we worked on the Tax Code, I would like to list only those organizations with which we worked very actively. It was the Council of Entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers, the Federation of Employers, Taxpayers' Association, Auditor's Chamber, Tax Consultants' Association. In addition, the development of rights took into account the supply of branch nonstate associations, such as the Ukrainian Agrarian Confederation, the Federation of Accountants and Auditors, and so forth. Now, I think it's through the public organizations that are taking on the work of professionals that we can have professional discussions of loving documents, and that's how government works today. We've taken many of their proposals into account in the Tax Code, but I'm convinced that such documents should be of a compromising nature, because not with all the rights, not with all the proposals, the government can agree on what comes from the business. Because I think the truth is right here in the middle, because. between government and business, because the government is responsible for the teachers, for the doctors, for the pensioners, for the budget. And that's exactly what compromise needs to find between the two sides. It's June 6th. Next question. On June 6, you spoke to Parliament about the government's intentions in August to introduce automatic VAT compensation, as a minimum for large enterprises, without any additional conditions. What mechanisms are set by the government’s economic bloc to achieve this? So by the end of the year, less than a month, and the VAT return situation had only worsened. According to Minfin, debt amounted to some 9 billion dollars on November 1, even though the government head is talking about two billion dollars. So please specify numbers and mechanisms. The state’s debt of VAT for today amounts to 9.5 billion. It's shrinking in terms of what we're talking about. before p, li The debt was reduced by 12.4 billion dollars. as of 01.01.2010, from the beginning of this year. The cut was 21 billion, we had a debt of 21 billion and 800 million dollars at the beginning of the year. Now, once again, I want to emphasize 9.5. The amount of outstanding debt from VAT today amounts to 2.4 billion dollars. The amount confirmed by late debt checks from VAT today amounts to 1.8 billion dollars. We intend to reduce this debt by the end of the year as much as possible, if we can, by zero at all, the amounts that are confirmed by the checks. But still, the final solution to this problem is that we would like to resolve the Tax Code, which you approved yesterday, and which leads to companies that meet certain requirements that were approved yesterday, getting VAT automatically back. And if this is not done, there will be fines for the Tax Administration. I think that's going to be the very effective mechanism that we have to use to avoid being indebted to VAT. I can also say that a whole series of decisions, like electronic overheads, will help us avoid tax pits that have taken VAT from the government budget a lot. In view of such steps, we too will reduce the value added tax debt. Next question. Among the announced priority reforms, today’s government called pension reform. In a six - year discussion of the direction of such reforms, however, it was essentially about increasing the retirement age for women. You also think that's the point of pension reform. When will a strategy paper on pension reform finally be presented and presented? First of all, I wanted to point out that this is about some kind of increase in retirement age. No one has raised any retirement age for women. Such suggestions may be considered theoretically by the Cabinet of Ministers in the near future. A bill on the implementation of the government's pension reform will be introduced by the government to the Supreme Council by December 10th. Its main task is to reduce the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. I would say that these are such quick decisions that the government will try to reduce the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. Furthermore, in November of this year, a working group was established under my co-chairship with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance and Banking to prepare for the second reading of Bill 0942 on the introduction of a mandatory public pension insurance system, the so-called second level. The central authorities of the executive branch carry out appropriate work. I'm convinced that we can do this work in the first half of 2011 and the nearest one, maybe since 2012, we'll be able to implement the second level of the pension system, put it into practice. This is really going to be a serious reform that will help us balance the income of the Pension Fund. Question eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u13	Please, Sergey Leonidovich, answer one of the Communist factions' questions because they will not be able to get an answer. Let us continue to ask questions from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u14	Deputy Communist faction, Communist Party of Ukraine As a result of your cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, there has been a significant increase in gas prices, particularly for the population, which has led to higher prices for housing services, food products, essentials for others. All of this has led to the continued impoverishment of citizens. What concrete steps are then planned by the government to protect citizens, especially the most disadvantaged, especially veterans, disabled persons, pensioners, and many children? I answered that question, just as there was a similar question to that of the Party “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, so I will not repeat myself here. The second question. Ukraine’s government debt exceeds $50 billion. To what extent does the government plan to increase it even more, and when will it pay? As of October 31, the government debt amounted to 307,9 billion dollars or $38.5 billion. By the end of this year, we're predicting that this debt will go up to 348 billion dollars or 43.5 billion dollars, representing 32.1 percent of GDP. So far we can say that this debt to the country is not critical. Because 60 percent of the debt is traditionally considered critical. But I think that this tax, this amount in terms of GDP, is going to go up a lot. For another 2 years, we've had 12 percent debt in terms of GDP, so the pace here is really critical. What steps should we take? First of all, solve the problem of budget deficit. And the fact that we're going to be 4.9 percent of the budget deficit this year is the first and most important and powerful step to halt the nation's debt growth. The four ingredients, I think, are essential for us to cut this debt considerably and stop it. What's more, let's start reducing it. First of all, it's a pension reform, which we have to talk about, because this year alone, the Pension Fund receives about 2.5 percent of our country's GDP. The second problem is Naftogaz. Naftogaz had a budget deficit in that year, which was almost covered by the State budget of about 30 billion, which is 3 percent of GDP. It's a tax reform. And the fact that the Tax Code was adopted yesterday, I think, will also help fill the budget, because, on the one hand, we've reduced the tax burden, and on the other hand, we've expanded the tax field. And this is an administrative reform that is currently being prepared, because there is much more to the cost of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u15	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u16	Much more in the cost of the state, we have to cut down and reduce the budget deficit. This complex approach will help us to control the increase in external debt. Question three. In practice, it is known that gas prices for the population and utilities are shaped by privatized frauds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we're about to finish the speech. Please finish and let's move on to written questions. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u18	Is that how you answer it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u19	Let's move on to written questions. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to calm down and take an example of all of you when you're speaking, exceeding all of the time, and then you're criticizing someone. Take it easy. Anything, please. Well, I can't just stand there and rip off the speaker all the time. Dear colleagues, you've got it. Let's sign up for a question to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please record. Last name, please. Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fatherhood".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u20	Thank you. I have one big question. Please tell me, who will be responsible for these failures in this area? And do you feel guilty and perhaps you should take the blame for this mess and write your application and resign?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u21	Mr. Eugene, I would like to say that the practice of other countries that have begun to carry out any kind of reform has been accompanied by sufficiently serious speeches by people. And that's perfectly clear, because we want to, we don't want, any steps are accompanied by actions that will lead to some inconvenience. But I think it is necessary to listen carefully to the needs of the people, but there is still a need to make appropriate reforms. And I think that we've had some problems, that's not the worst situation. We've come out of it and we need to move on. The same applies to other reforms that we should do. The main thing is that we have to understand one direct addiction. If we don't reform, we're going to have extremely bad economic indicators. All of this depends primarily on the investment climate that we need to create. Now, today we're busy. In its environment, in World Bank research, 145 positions, 145 positions. No one wants to go to that country. One of the main problems is tax legislation. It's going to be 181 today. I'm sure the Tax Code will change this situation. You don't have to stop and work here. Therefore, there is no need to stop and pursue reforms. It will be the responsibility of the people, the President will release those people who initiate it if necessary. But reforms must move and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u22	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u23	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Sergey Leonidovich, we have listened carefully to you and we understand what you are doing for the International Monetary Fund, as you have ensured the passage of the Tax Code, the rise in gas prices and pensions. On matters relating to capital, you are promoting the Labour Code, the Housing Code. And yet what do you do for ordinary citizens in charge of the economic bloc? How is unemployment addressed today? How do you influence that you're handling the salary they're detaining, $2 billion in debt? You're the Minister for Economics, aren't you? What are you doing today to fight the shadow economy? And what mechanisms are included? In particular, what are we doing to ensure that the level of wages in enterprises is consistent with the work done? And your conversation about who's coming or not coming here is that you're not working for the State of Ukraine. You expect someone to do something for you. Please tell me exactly what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u24	With regard to ordinary citizens, world experience has shown that ordinary citizens live in countries where the investment climate for enterprises is better: for large, for small, for medium. On that basis, we need to create such an investment climate for these enterprises to come. I would like to stress once again that the normal job in Ukraine today costs about $30,000 to the employer. If we want to create a highly productive job, we have to invest $100,000 in our economy today, which is what we have to worry about today. In order to create one million, at least one million, technologically productive jobs, we need to invest $100 billion. In the best of years, we have received direct investment, which, by the way, primarily went to the financial sector, about 10 billion, i.e. if we keep this pace of investment, we will not be able to significantly improve the situation for ordinary citizens. Today, we can say that today, if we compare our wages, our pensions, let's say, with the same Poland that carried out economic reforms, that's about four times the difference. That's why I do what I do. I understand very well, and I think that's the right thing to do, we're dealing with tax legislation that's the first thing that concerns investors. Yesterday, a law was introduced to the Supreme Council, which strongly regulates everything in the construction sector. And you will see revolutionary changes in the allocation of land to construction and construction permits. Great will be the interesting legislation that we have worked out, with the entire construction industry, and which is very actively supported by it. And yesterday we passed and now we are working with professionals on a new Customs Code, in which we will incorporate all the laws that have been passed in addition to the Customs Code that worked before. And there we will simplify all business procedures and create a better atmosphere. In the near future, you will see new drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Mikola Romanyuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u26	I beg you to give Popescu to Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u27	Ivan Popescu. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u28	Thank you, Mikolo Prokopovich. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Sergio Leonidovich, the regulatory pressure on business in Ukraine has had a very negative impact on business development. And it's very good that yesterday the Supreme Council, at the President's suggestion, established in the Tax Code a presumption of the innocence of entrepreneurs in relation to controlling bodies. In this context, I have the following question: "What additional steps does the government take at this stage and what does the government foresee in the future to reduce the pressure of the state apparatus on business, is meant for the entire strategic perspective?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u29	Thank you. What did you do? Over 90 percent of us have cut down on licensed jobs. I think this is a very important step for us. Most licenses in Ukraine are now of an unscheduled nature, that is, business does not need to come and rebuild them every time. Third. You've made the decision that the government has made, you've supported it, that one central authority should be attached to one control body. Today it's 79, now we've already started a procedure to reduce them to 40. So these are the steps that we have to move forward, make business as simple as possible, make business conditions a minimum of business contacts with government structures. The way out of this is we're making a whole bunch of decisions. Second position. Yesterday, on Wednesday, the government made the appropriate decision on those checks that could be carried out in relation to those authorities issuing regulatory acts, licensed acts, licences, and so forth. The same bill provides that we impose fines on those civil servants who abuse their status. I mean, on the other hand, the first direction is deregulation, on the other hand, we need to increase the pressure on an official to abuse his authority. Now, I think we can make a difference. I want to add to the last one. In the near future, we're going to make more proposals to facilitate entry into business. We will remove seals that are not required anywhere in the world for businesses. We will remove statutes that are also not binding on entrepreneurs. We will remove the minimum statutory fund, which is also not mandatory, and there will be no need to open up to businesses, to take up time. This will make it easier to keep going into business. And expect more appropriate decisions from us, such will be many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u30	The national deputy Haydayav is referring the right to the question of Valentine Matthew, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u31	Thank you. I think you're very passionate about how much more dollars it takes to invest in Ukraine's economy in order to get out of the crisis. As you may recall, in Soviet times all of these issues were decided on the basis of the development of your own economy, at the expense of your own strength. Well, that's for the answers you gave. I would like to say that, following the initiative of the Communist faction, the Supreme Council recently passed the Law on Transfer to the State Administration of the Herson Combination Plant's Whole Property Complex. Unfortunately, this law is committed by the President. Yeah, please tell me, there's a lot of these businesses that he thinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u32	Complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u33	Such enterprises, Sergei Leonidovich, are very many that work ineffectively, and most of all they are in a miserable economic state today. What the government still thinks of doing in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u35	Mr. Matthew, I don't think that the system of investment that existed in Soviet times is possible for us today. We don't have it. Because we still haven't restored the production we had in the '90s. And in order to restore production, we need investment. If we don't put anything in, we won't get anything. Today we're investing with you in capital. We invest about 2 percent of GDP from the State Budget. It's extremely small, all the countries in Eastern Europe are investing 5-6. But if we increase this, we should give you the answer: Who will we take it from? At the teacher's? The doctor? A soldier's? Therefore, the strategy today must be appropriate in the state. We have to maximize investment from the state, but they have to focus primarily on capital, on infrastructure, because investors can't invest in infrastructure, and we have these things constantly getting worse in terms of what we had. Investors will be afraid of such countries. So it's infrastructure. And conditions for private investors. They can start the production of combines no worse than the state. So what we have to do is we have to stay in state ownership and we have to support this nation's production: what we do by plane construction, what we do by shipbuilding, in the same tax code, and everything else we have to do, I think, do private capital that we have to create conditions. He'll come here, he'll create jobs, he'll be a good tax payer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u36	Shishkina, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u37	Please give the floor to colleague Bonadrenk Volodymyr Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u38	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u39	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, your work as Vice Prime Minister is causing a lot of grades. Given that time is short, I'm going to call just the key words on this point. For example, your activity is judged to be extremely ineffective, and even the inability to reflect on the responsibilities of your faith. When it comes to the tax code, there are also some very interesting features to it. One is the provocation of civil war in Ukraine. The fact that the front is going through every market today, through every district and district center, is obviously what you know. If you're talking about the two codes you're making, it's the cabala, the loop on the people's neck. It means the Labour Code and the Codex called the Housing Code. You also obviously know that there is a very negative social assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u40	Complete the formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u41	..price and tariff rises. That's why Erhard, or Beltzerovich, or Dan Xiao Pina didn't come out of you. Please leave Ukraine, let it develop in human, in European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u43	I'm not going anywhere, Mr. Volodymyr. I'll keep working. And to propose appropriate reform decisions, we will continue to do so. And I think so. You know exactly how it went in Poland. There was nowhere to be found. But that's what we have to do. What we haven't done in the last five years is I think it was a huge problem for the state, because other countries in five years have completely reformed their economy and brought countries out of poverty to completely new frontiers, and European alliances have entered. And we're all over it, sorry, we're talking. The noise, but they fell asleep and talked. So we're going to make appropriate reforms, first of all in the economy, we're going to insist on this, we're going to ask for support from the Supreme Council, and I think that this is the way out for Ukraine, and what's going to give the characteristics of Tihypco is secondary questions. The time will come, and the main thing is for the country to move forward, and the country needs reforms, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u44	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u45	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, all welcomed yesterday's changes to the tax code introduced by the President, was corrupted at night when the site was opened, and now the Mayan of Independence is surrounded by militia. For foreign investors, this is a more democratic indicator of our state than any adoption of the Tax Code. That's what you should know when you're talking to a foreign investor. If entrepreneurs are treated this way in the country, no one will come here. And the second question, you're saying that everything is done for a small business to change the tax code, there's a rule where a normal enterprise, when it orders jobs, services, or goods in a simplified enterprise, has no right to refer to the cost of production. Tell me, who will all small businesses now work with if ordinary businesses are uncomfortable working with them, not ordering jobs or services? We have different ideas about economic reforms. Economic reforms in the West are about reducing the state's impact on the economy, and you have the opposite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u46	It's true that we have different ideas about reforms, because if you take any Eastern European economy, and you have a good enough literate expert, he'll tell you, if you want to keep two tax systems in the state, that's the wrong approach. And if you want to stimulate small businesses, you have to stimulate them with simplified accounting, simplified tax bills, credit loans, credit support, but not with any other tax system. That's what the experts will tell you, you can ask Baltzerovich, and so on, maybe someone else is your authority. But we already have the right practice, and we cannot destroy it. Therefore, it is needed gradually, gradually, in consultation with entrepreneurs, to lead to appropriate standards. Two problems today are in the State budget, not mine, it's the problems of the teacher, the doctor, their low wages. The first position is self-punitive. We don't have a clear way of looking today, whether the services are real or not. And it's a big budget run from those companies that are in the general tax system. There is still work to be done on this issue, I think. And the second position is that at the expense of this system, we have a lot of escapes from the fact that it makes a lot of smuggled goods happen. So we have to bring the minimum accounting system here with you. Then this business will have a basis. If we don't, this business will be outlawed all the time. And that's why we need it here. What's business afraid of? Administrative intervention. He's not afraid of the cashier, he's afraid of the check that comes with this cashier. And we need to find the right solutions now, and we're looking for them because there are already certain countries that are putting the cashier out directly to the tax administration. What does this lead to? Control is then reduced to just one, the purchase of a checkpoint. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u47	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u48	Therefore, no one stands for small business. But you need to get it into normal conditions so that it has some stability for a long time. And I would ask the deputies to help out here, not to get into any contradictions that would lead to nothing. I promise you, we'll listen to small business and so on. But I want to stress again: the truth between a doctor, a teacher, a pensioner and a businessman. We cannot take just one final stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u49	Alexander Skibinetsky, “BUT” faction – “Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Roman Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u51	Please, Zabzauk, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u52	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, well, we have come to realize that you are firmly rejecting even the idea of resigning, even for ethical reasons. Because you are directly the co-author of this tax terror against the population that triggered the excitement, the opposition is fair on the part of entrepreneurs and citizens of Ukraine. But during the election campaign, you went to this environment, promising them Nirvana, and in exchange you were reprisals. Although perhaps you would retire politically. At the same time, you stated a mythical compromise. We also discussed the matter between Kabmin and the government. Do you consider it a compromise to see 24 billion dollars spent in Cyprus offshore this year and a catastrophic increase in budget deficits? Maybe we're putting, rather faithful, oligarchy into the economy of other nations? Your position on this matter? Maybe she did.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u53	As far as business aid is concerned. I am convinced that our business can be helped by the complex reforms that we must carry out. What should they be made up of? I said, we need new tax legislation, we need updated customs legislation, we need new building legislation, we need new legislation to enter the business, we need to stop the company, we need to update bankruptcy legislation, we need to update legislation to register real estate rights and so on. By the way, I can say that there's not that many steps that we need to take in economic terms. And we're doing, we're preparing, these steps. As far as I'm concerned. We cook and we serve. Yesterday, you passed two very important laws that regulate technical regulations that are very close to the European Union, which change the conditions of technical regulation completely. So I think it's a complex that needs to be done. As far as offshore companies are concerned. You know, for offshore companies and Cyprus separately, I can tell you, well, first I answered. You didn't listen, probably because I answered that question. I can say that if we want to take some banning steps to ban off-shore, we're not going to do that, because all the economies in the world work through these offshore zones, but what's left in other countries is a great deal of economics, why there's not much going on. On the one hand, the state has to control, I'm convinced that we need to change the Cyprus deal because there, I think very low is the percentage. But I said that four times we came up with this question. Today the Cypriot side is doing everything to ensure that such an agreement is not concluded, and this is the country of the European Union. In a unilateral order, we take such steps toward the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u54	Microphone, please. Finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u55	No, I'm not. Yes, it's a Soviet treaty, but we're his successor. In a unilateral order, it is extremely difficult to do so. But in the near future, if this isn't done, we're going to propose, there's one step that we're going to propose in a one-sided way, because waiting, it's impossible to endure. This has been the work of all governments since 1997. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u56	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The distinguished Sergey Leonidovich, the absolute majority of the political forces present in this Hall, have been saying over the past years that reforms must begin. And when someone took responsibility and really began to carry out these reforms, these forces suddenly began to take a reverse position and, frankly, to this day, I listen carefully to the questions, I don't understand what position they want to carry out reforms or not, but this, God is with him, let them remain on their conscience. Please tell me, from your point of view, what is part of the financial resources today in the shadow sector of the economy, how long in your view will it take you, in your view, to carry out an unpopular part of the reforms, and how long can people feel the positive impact of the reforms that have been introduced today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you. First, about 40 per cent of the economy is in the shadows. That's what all economists say. Someone might call it a slightly larger number. What must be done to reduce this figure? But there is almost a shadow sector in all countries. Even in the United States, it is said that about 5 percent of the economy is in the shadows. Clearly reform and that's what you accepted yesterday, I think that's the compromise that we should have made. And I think the adoption of the Tax Code is a big step. Let's not take a full step forward, but we're moving forward by 3/4. I think what was codified in law is very important. We will continue to propose such reforms. Much will depend on the current administration and tax administration and customs. We have quite a problem here. And these problems need to be addressed soon. Because people often resent not even what we're proposing, believe me, the Tax Code will not say much in three months, because it's no big deal. There's a lot of improvement. On the contrary, it will be perfectly understood. But administration, the current administration raises a lot of questions. That's why we have to take this off. We have to remove, in fact, the presumption of guilt that our business exists. With regard to unpopular reforms. We'll try to make them fast enough. I think there's going to be a lot of misunderstandings, there's going to be a lot of explaining to people in half a year, and we're going to be able to finish. After that, it'll work. That's what we're counting on. By next year, we can, practically, fully balance the budget. 3.5 percent of the deficit is very important. We can index all salaries, all pensions, all social benefits. We will not have any debts in this area. We will try to raise the minimum wage and pension even more. That'll be the answer, I think. It's a return. We'll have it within the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u59	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u60	And everything else, once again, the key position is investors. We have to make at least $10-12 billion that will be invested in Ukraine every year. And that's going to be the answer to the situation, we were, we were one year old, and you remember, there was no unemployment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u61	John the Rabbit, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u62	I'm handing it over to Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u63	Jaroslav Jojik? Jaroslav Jojik, please microphone, “Our Ukraine — People's Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u64	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, recently your associate Mikhailo Brodsky, was extremely indignant about the fact that your authority by the Bronsby doesn't run the business, as the demonstration in Georgia did. Indeed, according to the same ship’s Georgia is one of the most successful examples of reforms. As you know, you have recently been to Georgia and have studied the experience of Georgia. So I have the next question. After carrying out these reforms in Georgia, is there an agreement to avoid double taxation with Cyprus? Are dividends taxed abroad by Ukrainian companies to parent companies? Are the expenses of senior officials declared in this State? Don't you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u65	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u66	Let me finish. Do you not think that if you had started these reforms in this way, if you had actually implemented the slogan: “Taxes should be paid by all!”, it would have been quite different to accept the tax reforms you are implementing today, regardless of, in fact, the unpopularity of your steps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. Mr. Jojik, I don't think anyone needs to be chased by transbots. And what we had with regard to the Tax Code was completely part of our legislation. People are still going to appeal when you're reforming, there's going to be a lot on the street, they're going to appeal, because a lot of people won't be able to understand the effect that should come in time. People want to see it now and quickly. Sadly, some issues will have to be tolerated by Poles, Czechs, Hungarians, and so forth. And there have also been very bad situations. As for Georgia, really, there was a seminar of the World Bank, where there were countries in Eastern Europe where there were good economists. And the talk was about reform. I can tell you that Georgia is actually taking 12 positions in the world ratings at business fair today. It's a very serious and nice position. But I can say there's still a Baltic country: Estonia's 17th position is very nice in Lithuania, Latvia. There is Slovakia, whose experience should also be accepted. With all these countries we're now communicating, we're finding, we're looking for better decisions that we're going to make in Ukraine. Thank you. And no one needs to be chased.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u68	Sergey Leonidovich, one minute left. Please make generalizations, please. Dear colleagues! One minute left. The Deputy Prime Minister has a word for generalization. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u69	Thank you, thank you for inviting me to the Supreme Council. And what I'm saying is, no matter what difficult conversations we have, I'm always ready to come and talk to you. Because, I'm sure, in order to carry out reforms, we need to explain a lot to people. And you represent people. We have a lot to talk about, a lot to talk about. There will be some unpopular moments. But I don't think that's something to be afraid of. We need to see the target, we need to have a goal, and we need to go to it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u70	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues! The government's year lasted an hour and eight minutes. Dear colleagues! According to the regulations, on Friday we make parliamentary inquiries. If there is no objection, allow me to make the parliamentary inquiries that have come out of the national deputies of Ukraine. Igora Sharov to the President of Ukraine on increasing the effectiveness of state policy in implementing Ukraine's energy strategy until 2030. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:08:01]] For 218. The request was supported. I now put to the vote a motion for a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:08:23]] For 234 The request is accepted, i.e. the request is sent to the President of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the sixth convocation of the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. [[Parish, Culchinsky, and others]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please be sure. [[11:09:02]] For-81 Request not supported. Andrija Pavlovski to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on violations by the Ukrainian National Deputies of the constitutional requirements of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Irina Heraszczenko to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the irresponsible attitude of the Ukrainian national deputies toward working in interparliamentary associations. Group of National Deputies (Paruby, Culchinsky and others). to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation by Ukraine's individual people's deputies of the sixth convocation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. Eugene Kzarykov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the Conservation of Educational Corpses of the South Ukrainian National Educated University of Ushinsky. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the conservation of the entire machine-building sector in Ukraine, for the production of truck cranes with a capacity of fifty tonnes and above on the open stock company Holding Company Krayan. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on ending the misapplication of the average wage rate for an insured person in Ukraine as a whole in 2007 on the basis of the calculation of pensions for working retirees in 2009, 2010 and the following years. Igor Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the implementation of the State Energy Efficiency Target Programme 2010-2015. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of compliance with the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens in respect of social protection, wages, benefits, compensation and guarantees provided by Ukraine's laws. Mikoli Rudchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the Children's Youth Sports School in Malin Zitomir district. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the villages of Detina, Shershny, Melena Corstene region and the village of the city-type Chopovici of the district of Malin district of Žitomir. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of alternative jobs in settlements with the only city-forming enterprise. Zarubinski's Oleg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on stimulating the population to use energy-saving technologies at the domestic level. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the failure to implement the Financial Recovery Program by the Public Shareholders Association "BORD OF BANK" for 2010 - 2016 No.374 from 8 June 2010. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the mass baseless release of employees of the Lviv Customs. [[The Stoic, the Weaver, and others]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the examination of the facts of gross violation of the constitutional right to property of citizens, on the task of moral and material damage to them, on the efforts, on the abuse of office and on the excess of official powers, on the illegal disposal of legal owners of property rights at the address of the city of Kiev, Gradinska Street, 7 officials of the Right District in the city of Kiev of the State Administration, on the appropriate measures to respond to the renewal of citizens' rights, on the removal of violations of current legislation and on the prosecution of those responsible. A group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on systematic destruction by the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine has set up trade unions. [[Tomenka, Kirilenka, and others]] Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation in connection with the collapse of the Ministry of Education and Science of the production of manuals for the 10th class. [[Tomenka, Odarchenka and others]] Valentina Zubova to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on anti-State activity and abuse of office by Chief Doctor of the 6th City Hospital of Emergency Care of the City of Simferopol citizen Yvashchenka. Valentina Matvieva to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the inactivity of the State Executive Service for three years to ensure the enforcement of the court's decision on compensation for road and transport damage to the residents of Ichnya Chernigiv district of Alina Kovalenko. John Sidelnik to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in connection with the deployment of a 75-inhabited apartment building in Putivl Sumska district on the street of Kovpak, 7 and its settlement. Marina Perestenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of restructuring measures and the destruction of the traumatological and orthopedic ward in the sixth city hospital of Simferopol, which is based on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Edward Prutnik to the minister of Ukraine in matters of family, youth and sport, the Ministry of Justice, the Montenegrin District Administration, the Lower Regional Government Administration of the Chernigiv Region on the need to consider the appeal of a multi-child mother, pensioner Hanna Greenko, who has worked all her life as a nurse and has lived in the Lower Chernigiv Region for the possibility of assigning her the honorary title "Mother Heroin" in accordance with the Ukrainian Presidential Order "On Honorary Names of Ukraine" of 29 June 2001. Mr. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the initiation by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, in accordance with article 97 of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice, the question of the disciplinary responsibility of the judge of the Kyiv District Court of Poltava Natalija Jakovenko. Oleg Tishchenka to the head of the High Council of Justice for the review of the appeal of a citizen named Tamila Ahundova regarding the legal assessment of the actions of the judges of the courts of the Kyiv district of Taras Karpeckin, Kyiv district court of Donecka Viktor Poprovitch, judges of the district administrative court of Kiev Valery Kuzmenka, Andrija Fedorczuk, Vitalia Amelochina. Alexander Schepeleva to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent human casualties due to the collapse of soil in the city of Krivi Rig Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Gordienka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the appeal of a resident of the town of Hadjac Poltawsk district, a disabled group of the Great Homeland War of Dmitr Wenck, to conduct a free operation. Sergey Shevchuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the non-performance of roof work prior to the autumn-winter period in a building belonging to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine in a village of the city-type Kotsubinsk Kyiv region. Sergey Shevchuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the illegal provision of medical assistance, which led to a criminal case against the Ukrainian national deputy. Jury Litvina to the head of the High Council of Justice regarding the wrongful actions of the judge. Jury of Lithuania to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the Ulyanov District State Administration of the Kirovograd Region. Andrija Shkila to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal, pretentious, Ukrainianophobic statements made by the deputy of the Luhansk City Council, the representative of the Communist Party of Natalia Maximec regarding the tragedy of the Ukrainian people, the Holocaust. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the laws of Ukraine, the constitutional rights of journalists of the “5 channel” by preventing them from engaging in professional activities on the part of members of the State Security Service. Vladimir Vizewski and Andrija Paruba to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the sixth vocation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine concerning the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the inappropriate reaction of the Attorney General of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the activities of the Raider Group, which operates in the territory of autonomy under the leadership of Leonid Rainek, the Senior Former Prime Minister of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea-Volodymir Ryanka, and has caused the State more than 30 million dollars. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal, essentially corrupt, transfer to private property of buildings on the street of Mala Zitomirska, which are the seat of the family of the famous Ukrainian artist Alexander Murashka, are part of the architectural and command zone of Sofia Kyivska, which is under UNESCO's protectorate. Dmitry Schlemk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate treatment and response of the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the law enforcement authorities of the region of Ivano-Frankov to the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine for violations of the law on elections to local self-government authorities. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Prime Minister Mikli Azarov of Ukraine, who prevented journalists from "5 channel" in their professional activities on November 27, 2010, during a meeting between the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the rallying entrepreneurs. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the establishment of the causes of the emergency on the Svetosin-Brovar Line of the Kyiv Metro on 29 November 2010 and for the involvement of those responsible. Alexander Kuzmuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of Natalia Zubitsky from the actions of Yuri Didowec, Alexander Bashuk, Yuri Samson, aimed at the reriding of the proper private enterprise "Green Planet" and attracting the above-mentioned individuals to responsibility. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for removing obstacles to access to his homes and public places on Kotovsky Street in Horol Poltavsk region because of improper decisions made by local authorities. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the non-execution by the Lukashovka Territorial Electoral Commission, the village of Lukashovka of the Pervomajsk Region of the Mikolai District of the decisions of the four courts on the abolition of the results of the vote at the polling station No. 18013 from the elections of the Luxembourg Rural Head, the possible illegal actions of the head of the Pervomaj District State Administration Boris Demchenk and the inaction of the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai district to violate the current legislation of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admission of the destruction of the Victory Dendropark in Odessa, on the verification of the unlawful actions of officials of the State authorities and on the local self-government of the Odessa region, resulting in the destruction of a natural object that has a special historical, cultural, scientific, health and aesthetic value in Ukraine's national environmental network, and on the use of appropriate response measures. Victor Teren to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the management of the unbreakable electricity supply in the village of Hodosyivka Kyivo-Svetoshin district. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the head of the Herson district government regarding the inadmissibility of the creation by the Herson district government of obstacles to the functioning of the public reception of Ukraine’s national deputy, Viacheslav Kirilenka, at the site of Freedom, 1, the city of Herson. Alexander Shepeleva to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for taking steps to prevent a repeat of cases of heating and hot water supply in Kiev. Thus, honourable national deputies, 59 MPs have been asked. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of vocational and technical education, registration number 7068, has been announced. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:22:32]] For-166 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Science and Education Ivchenko Viktor Anatoliyovich, co-rapporteur, Secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Samylika Katerina Seminowna. We can, your honors, organize work in such a way as to work without interruption, to consider these issues, where we have the right to consider the reduced procedure, and then to go to the various. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! For consideration by the Supreme Council, there is a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the administration of vocational and technical education. This law creates legislative preconditions for the implementation of priority tasks for the development of vocational and technical education in the country. The adoption of this law will improve the mechanism for the administration of vocational and technical education, strengthen the role of local executive authorities and the responsibility of local self-government for the formation of the labour potential, allow for maximum consideration of the needs of the regions in the skilled workforce. Introduce multichannel funding, creating an enabling environment for investing in qualified workers. It will also ensure that the property of professional and technical educational establishments of state and municipal property is preserved. To this end, the draft Law introduces changes and additions to the laws: education in the area of improving the quality of vocational and technical education; local self-government in strengthening the powers of local self-government authorities in the preparation of labour personnel; employment promotion; and multi-channel funding. [[Article 41]] [[Article 28, 32]] And also to the Law on Vocational and Technical Education on Improving Vocational and Technical Education, Delegating Powers and Enhancing the Role of Local Executive Authorities and Local Self-Government, Improving Licensing and Training of Production Personnel, Improving the Content of Education, Regulating Property Relations in Vocational and Technical Education. The adoption of an act in general will help.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u72	Yes, please finish. Yes, then sit down. May I ask the committee, who do we have? Katerina Semenovna Samojlik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u73	The Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education adopted a unanimous decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill, to send it back to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. What were they guided by? First of all, the content doesn't match the title of the bill. In particular, the Explanatory Note refers to amendments to the Budget Code, to the publication case, to the State support for the book publishing case in Ukraine, and there is no word in the text of the bill. First. The other one. There is no clear definition of the subject of management, that is, the types of vocational and technical schools. Third. Of course, the main thing is to transfer vocational and technical institutions to administration and local budgets, local budgets: district and district budgets. You and I are fine, dear colleagues, and we know what our local budgets are these days, and what the bill says is that they should be provided with free, free textbooks and so forth. Please calculate whether this budget will be sufficient for the area or city to resolve all these issues. Next. There is no financial and economic justification, and the law will have a major impact on the increase in spending. The Committee on Budget Affairs of Ukraine has expressed its negative attitude toward this bill and requests that the subject of the legislative initiative be reinstated. The Ukrainian City Association also asks us to work for a more perfect bill. We ask all Ukrainian national deputies to support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u74	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Let's sign up for the performance. Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u75	Please give the floor to Gore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u76	Please, it's Gorini's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Education! Well, tell me, please, is that a public approach? We have a huge problem, we don't have a government order for the professions that we now have specialists in the VUZA. And vocational training, which just died after the Soviet Union's time, when it was a large, large class of people who had received jobs. We have absolutely no one who knows, we don't have potters, we don't have any locksmiths. Now we're giving the poor local budgets, we're putting it all on balance -- do whatever you want. There's no government order again. We're going to die without it. But how could that be? It is not enough that this law is not at all what is there for re-reading, it should not be at all. You must have a completely different public approach on this issue. Definitely against that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u78	Oh, they signed up for it. Kirilenko Viacheslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u79	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, here is the conclusion of the Chief Executive of our Supreme Council, which says in black and white: “The bill is characterized by a lack of a systematic approach to improving Ukrainian legislation in the field of vocational and technical education”. This is even our Chief Science and Research Administration giving an evaluation of the professionalism of the active Minister of Tobacco, who is long overdue for retirement. Let the President do it now. Because he'll continue to print both anti-Ukrainian decisions and non-professional decisions, by throwing out the Supreme Council with similar bills. When Stanislaw Nikolayenko was still minister, in several governments, by the way, very different, he did his best not to pass on to the local budgets. Why? Because they're empty. That's where the mice run. How can the silrada hold PTU? How can the village council hold PTU? Even the town council of a small town? Here the Smoker suggests that these rural budgets give free textbooks to the students of PTU and also report to the students of public schools. So, knowing that there is no money, he shut down the printing program himself, and no class has any new textbooks, and they buy themselves. They take older ones, who are already a kilogram of dirt, and they hand out textbooks to children from libraries. And now Minosveti wants to transfer this to local budgets free of charge by textbooks, knowing that there is no money in the local budgets. So it's not a reform of vocational and technical education, it's an effort by the Minister of Tobacco to hide his complete helplessness, incompetence, incompetence, including in the field of vocational and technical education. So, I think the Supreme Council here can only make one decision under this law: recommend that the President resign the Tobacco. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u80	Yavorowski Wolodymir, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u81	He asks very much for the word of Mikola Tomenko for a vivid speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u82	Yes, please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I would like to support all three previous speakers. One thing in our Supreme Council is that Kirilenko, Gorina and Sameilik, who represent different factions, have said about, I'd say, yes, more harshly, the anti-State approach of the Ministry of the Elimination of the System of Occupational Sciences. A paradoxical situation. Today, on the other hand, train today, associate with the average network of employers who say that you need to invest and work more actively with secondary and special education, because it is this medium-sized chain that is lacking in businesses. I mean, it has to be a systematic, serious state program to support vocational and technical education. But I'm the only one who'd like to add to my colleagues, I think this bill is not random, because I have information from many heads of the trade institutes who say that unfortunately, the ministry started today as a young team of Chernewsky in the pursuit of real estate and land began to virtually destroy the system of vocational schools. See, in the final year of 2010, the closed-circuit training center for liberated soldiers was handed over to the Odessa Academy of Law. Well, that's what we have to do in Kiev to take out the CTU in order to give Odessa Academy the premises. Three buildings have been reorganized in Kiev. One was handed over to a private institute, one was handed over to the University of Water Management. And there are dozens of such examples in Ukraine. So I'm absolutely convinced that the Ministry had to give us the documents in exactly the opposite way. A state-owned training program, a system of qualification training, some new approaches, as it were, where the State Budget should subsidize the system of vocational schools. So I'm supporting my colleagues here who said that the bill should be rejected. And the President is advised to set up an education minister who will protect education rather than destroy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u84	Cibenka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u85	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! I would like to take note of the explanatory note of this bill. That's where the explanatory note begins. Because the economy of Ukraine feels a sharp deficit in skilled workers in the field of material production and so on and so forth. Attention is drawn to what is going on in the aging process of the working people that are there. That is, concern is expressed that there is a huge problem in this part of Ukraine. Next. The bill, the explanatory note explains once again that the bill proposes to address the issues of improving vocational and technical education. Improving the quality of education in vocational and technical schools. Strengthening the social protection of students. Who would deny it if it were true? But the content of the document, as they say, is really the other way around. Look, making changes to a series of laws. In particular, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule. Article 28. Budget, finance, and prices authorizations And it's proposed to add to the authority of the local authorities to add: the maintenance of educational institutions and institutions of the vocational and technical education system of municipal property. I mean, your honor, it's not a new idea. At the beginning of the 1990s, a lot of people dreamed of passing on vocational and technical education to the local level. But there is one simple thing to understand. If that happens, it will mean, give in to the word, to the system of vocational and technical education. So she's just not going to make it. That's going to mean its absolute destruction. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u86	Question completed. I am voting on the basis of a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving vocational education [[Registration number 7068]] [[11:36:29]] For-0 Zero votes. The point is, fellow dignitaries, that the Supreme Council is always wise to act. The bill was rejected. A draft law is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer to send for work. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:11]] For 225 Overruled. Mikhail Vasilovich, dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I don't see what we can work on here. Have them draft a new bill. There's absolutely no problem here that redrafting that new bill. It's the same thing. The draft Law amending certain laws on intellectual property is under consideration. [[Registration number 7205]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:37:59]] For 193 Offer supported. Deputy Minister of Education and Science Yvchenko Viktor Anatoliyovich Please, two minutes. Get ready for Lutsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, you are now under the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Intellectual Property. The Ministry of Education and Science has drafted this law in accordance with the Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union. The need for effective legal protection of intellectual property for Ukraine is due to its chosen strategy of building civilized market relations, ensuring the social orientation of the economy and innovative socio-economic development, which should be based primarily on the revitalization of its own intellectual potential. The adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation is a priority component of Ukraine's integration into the European Union, which in turn is a priority for Ukrainian foreign policy. To date, the positions established by Ukraine's current intellectual property legislation are largely in line with Ukraine's international treaties in this area and with the European Union's acts. However, some provisions of existing legislation need to be improved and more clearly defined, taking into account the requirements of European and international legislation. The draft law provides for amendments to the Civil Code and five special laws of Ukraine on industrial property matters, which must be translated into compliance with European Union legislation. In addition, the draft law found its implementation of a series of proposals by investors, participants in the "Government and Business Partners" forum to improve the investment climate in Ukraine. We realize that this law still needs work, and we ask that it be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u88	First Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lutsky Maksim Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich! The government bill is indeed very relevant because national intellectual property legislation has not yet been brought into line with the Civil Code of Ukraine and European Union legislation. The purpose of the bill is to further improve relations with regard to the acquisition, exercise and protection of industrial property rights, to regulate existing legislation on these objects, and to take into account the provisions of European Union legislation on intellectual property, which will correspond to the main orientations of the State’s foreign economic policy and to improve the investment climate in Ukraine. The draft law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code and to Ukraine's special industrial property laws, including the protection of rights to inventions and useful models, the protection of industrial design rights, the protection of rights to trademarks and services, the protection of rights to topography of integrated micro-schemes, the protection of rights to indicate the origin of goods in relation to the need to bring them into line with EU legislation. The adoption of the law does not require funding from state or local budgets and a change in material and technical resources. The main scientific and expert office points to the need to finalize the bill, particularly the understandable instrument of laws to which it proposes to amend it. The implementation of the draft law will contribute to the further development of the legal protection system for relations related to the acquisition, exercise and protection of rights to inventions and beneficial models, industrial models, signs and services, topography of integrated micro-schemes, and the streamlining of current intellectual property legislation in Ukraine, the acceleration of the economic development of the state, and the improvement of the investment climate. The adoption of the bill will make it possible to improve the effectiveness of the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of a large number of civil relations participants. The Committee on Education and Science proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u90	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u91	Dear Parliamentarians! Dear voters! Well, first of all, what I want to say is that the addition and amendment to this law is not something revolutionary, a breakthrough, and let's say a new level of protection for Ukrainian intellectual property. But still, those refinements and additions are all about time itself, and I think this bill needs to be supported. Another question that we have today in Ukraine is that, in fact, the intelligence of the brain from Ukraine, of the Ukrainian state, is actually washed away. Some have gone abroad because the authorities here do not actually promote or support them or finance them, first and foremost, does not finance science enough. New scientific developments. Let's say the same problem, I've already touched it from this rostrum -- the problem of Chernobyl, where we're actually today to eliminate that dangerous object, which today is "Hidden," or sarcophagus, as it's called, has actually gone a completely fictitious way, and no one can stop this, really wicked, path that is. It's to put on this sarcophagus coat, which is said to have been in holes for a long time, and it's leaking and so forth. Instead of even unmounting it, and burying it, and closing it completely, we're just simply conserving it, that is, leaving it to the next generation. And that's when we have a Ukrainian scientist today -- Shenderevich -- who's developed a completely unique thing -- is how to speed up the period of decay: it's not 100 years that we have to wait, because there are different elements where there are different periods of decay, and when it can be very effectively accelerated, and actually there, in Chernobyl, you can go to the choice that there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u92	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u93	Bring it all out on the green sea. For this reason it is necessary to vote in favour of this law. Once again, it's not revolutionary, it's not breakthrough, but it's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u94	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't seen zero votes in this room for a bill signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. After the 13 chapters that the President named yesterday at the time of the adoption of the Tax Code, this is the second failure of Mikola Janović Azarova, after which, Mikola Janović, we must take the shoe and go home. Going home is nothing to support you in this room and no support in the state. And after the Maydan race that interfered with you. I think you're doing everything you can to speed up the agony of the regime. As far as this bill is concerned, dear friends, I think that, unfortunately for it, no more votes should be cast than for the front. Because of what? Let's take a look at this: the understandable apparatus. The understandable apparatus suggests in this law that we change the definitions of the Ukrainian Civil Code. What's more, completely change them. You. Yes. A patent is recognized as a document that testifies to ownership. And article 419 of the Civil Code shows the relationship between intellectual property rights and property rights, particularly those that do not depend on each other. This bill suggests that chapter IX and chapter X of the Final Positions be excluded in the Transitional Positions, i.e. the transitional positions, and in the end, where applications were submitted in five years, where they are still in operation. So it's going to make people's rights worse and there's going to be new problems. I'd like to ask you to send this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u96	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws on intellectual property, registration number 735. Please vote. [[11:48:23]] For 247 Yuri Anatoliyovich, to your knowledge, this law was also signed by Prime Minister Azarov, as you can see, he has support. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on clinical trials of medical devices. Registration number 7054. There's an offer: to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:49:01]] For 207 Supported. What are we violating? Please, Customs Officer Zinovy Mikolaiovich, please, 2 minutes. Bachtiev, I can't see. Who's gonna be on the committee? Grigorovich, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u97	Good day to you all! Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislation on Clinical Trials of Medical Devices, registered number 7054 of 27.08.2010, was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on behalf of the Ministry of Health. The bill is designed by the Ministry to organize clinical trials with the participation of minors, minors and incapacitated persons and is designed to amend article 281 of the Civil Code of Ukraine and to amend articles 7 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. The purpose of the act is to improve clinical trials involving minors and minors, to limit effective and ineffective persons, taking into account the rules and rules applicable in international practice, the European Parliament and the EU Council Directive of 04.04. 2001 on the approximation of the legislative and administrative legislation of member countries concerning the introduction of good clinical practice in clinical trials of medicines for human use. In a European Parliament and Council regulation of 12.12.2006, number 1901/2006 on medicines and paediatric applications, the European Parliament and Council regulation of 20.12.2006 No 1902/2006, the Convention on the Protection of the Rights and Dignity of the Man on the Application of Biology and Medicine, the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine of 04.04. In 1997, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20.11.1989, ratified by the Supreme Council Regulation of 27.02. 1991 for number 789-12. According to article 281 of Ukraine’s Civil Code, medical science and other research can only be carried out on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u98	Take care of yourself, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u99	May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u100	Yes, go on, but very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u101	Okay. Currently, clinical trials in Ukraine are conducted in accordance with the Law on Medical Devices and the Order of the Ministry of Health. Clinical studies involving minors and incapacitated patients are regulated by article 8 of the Medical Devices Act in part of the aspects of obtaining informed consent, namely: clinical trials of medical devices are conducted on the basis of the written consent of the volunteer patient to participate in clinical trials, or the written consent of his legal representative, and clinical trials with the participation of a minor or incapacitated patient. Requirements for clinical trials involving minors, minors, and incapacitated persons who cannot give on their own. the consent set out in Chapter IV, chapter three and fourth of the order of the clinical trials of medical devices and the expertise of the materials of the clinical trials approved by the Ministry of Health. [[690]] Clinical trials involving incapacitated persons in accordance with better international practices are conducted in cases where such research has a direct bearing on the life - threatening or debilitating clinical condition of an ineffective patient, and all other conditions for clinical trials are met on viable subjects. The basic provisions of the Ukrainian procedure for clinical trials of medical devices approved by the Ministry of Health and registered with the Ministry of Justice are harmonised with the Directive, the Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council. [[No.690]] [[of 29.10.2009]] [[of 04.04.2001]] [[of 12 and 20.12.2006 respectively]] However, the above provisions conflict with article 281 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which we consider to be inconsistent with the rules of the current Ukrainian legislation and the relevant rules of the world community. Articles 7 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices also do not provide for the legal regulation of the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u102	Thank you, Zinovy Mikolayovich. Please, from the committee, Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna. But you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council Committee on Health at its meeting on 10 November considered the bill carefully and argues that the purpose of the bill is to improve legislation on the provision of clinical research rights for children. From the point of view. The committee decided to support the bill in the first reading. I'll explain the logical reasons. Such a legislative colossal procession took place. On the one hand, article 281 of the Civil Code prohibits clinical and scientific work, which is clinical research on children, and allows only adults. On the other hand, the law on medical devices allows this. So in order to protect, emphasize, protect and improve the system of clinical trials, my dear ones, besides adults, children are sick, and we need to test and treat children and save the lives of children. In view of the committee’s development, the first reading of the Health Ministry, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, supports the bill. As doctors, members of the committee have come from the fact that the use of medicines for adult volunteers and for the treatment of children is dangerous and risky, because adults are not children, and children are not adults, and vice versa. The realities of the present are these. Without clinical trials involving children, there will be no child care. That is why the bill that we support is foreshadowed. First, clinical trials involving children can be conducted exclusively for children’s medical devices, “A”. “In” is only after full clinical trials have been carried out with the involvement of fully-age viable persons. It's a B. "C" and just to clarify the dosage and method of use of the child's medicine. Second, for such clinical trials.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u104	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u105	Only children can be involved, that of parents and only for their voluntary consent. Science and expertise noted that the bill deprives children of the rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care to participate in clinical trials. However, the committee believes that the bill is intended to provide additional protection for such children. In view of this, the Committee proposes to support the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers in the first reading and to work on all necessary nuances of “lego artis” for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u106	Thank you. Let's write it down if you want to. Please, Katerina Vaschuk. Microphone. It's Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Minister! Of course, we will vote in favour of this bill. We all realize the great responsibility for how people are being treated, what people in our country are being treated for. But I actually took the floor to speak to the minister on behalf of those people who believed in the ministry, the government, personally Mikoli Janovich Azarov, when he opened up at the oncology center, presented a new scanner that allows people not to leave Ukraine without collecting money to check out abroad, that's all in Ukraine. They've opened beautifully. The press, the radio, the television, presented her well. People kicked in there. And what their bitter disappointment was when they were told that the device was bought for millions, and all it needed for it was the materials that were needed for its work and its specialists, no, and we don't have it. So this was done on some date, under elections, not for the benefit of people, so that the government would have authority. Such things cannot be allowed. They're oncows! For someone, this is the last hope of salvation. How can you play with such people? How can we fail to do what is promised, how can we freeze large amounts of government money that do not benefit people? That's my question, and consider it a parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u108	Vladimir Karpuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u109	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". The purpose of the bill is to improve the testing of drugs on minors, minors, and incapacitated persons. From a formal point of view, from the point of view of formal law, everything is properly described as a matter of course, necessarily a written permission from the parents. But I don't understand how, in an accessible form, a child or a disabled person can explain the whole complex spectrum of possible action and possible complications of a particular drug. At the same time, these laws are really brought into conformity with international law, which clearly regulates how to conduct clinical trials. But I'll give you one digit. All we need is the formal consent of our parents, and this year we have 84,000 people deprived of their parental rights. So from this point of view, many parents may at some cost give such written consent for certain preferences. So we can agree and make a serious note of this law that all clinical trials of drugs, medicines on children who are incapacitated or underage should be provided for two more conditions, which is why scientific expertise also stresses. The first is the consent of a certain body of care or care, especially when trials on children who are deprived of parental care. And the second is according to a decision made by a commission of medical or biological ethics, such trials are not conducted in all institutions, certain institutions. And we need to predict the creation of a medical ethics commission in such institutions. And it is only by the agreement of such a committee that these things can be done, not only by the written consent of the parents. Otherwise, this law will not do any good to protect health.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u110	Thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote and ask for the support of Bill No. 7054 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on clinical trials of medical devices. Please vote. [[12:01:59]] For 262 Decision taken. Yuri Anatolyovich, what did you want? Well, there's no such thing, but I'm good today. Give Carmazin one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I asked for words on the grounds that we vote because we do good things in this law, and we do bad things. I invite all the government officials who do these things, the changes to the Civil Code, I emphasize the fact that the Venice Commission was going through, and a few years before we accepted it, there was a study of it. And right here we're adding to an article called "The Right to Life," we're supplementing another with clinical trials. What are we doing? Well, think about it. So there are changes to the Civil Code that are completely inappropriate. And today, we didn't pay any attention to that in the performances. We're looking on the surface. I'm paying attention to the government. Don't go to Civil Codes or other codes if you don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u112	Yuri Anatolyovich, they don't have any rights anymore, and you have, until the second reading, to delete this article if you think it's not the right one. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 33 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u113	We're continuing the meeting. A draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010 is under consideration (as defined by the chief budget officer of the Ukrainian Supreme Court (Registration No. 7317). There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:33:43]] For a hundred and Offer supported. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Rybak Sergey Aleksandrovich. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Court of Justice Act, adopted on 7 July 2010, provides for the function of the Ukrainian Supreme Court in handling civil and criminal matters as of 1 November 2010. According to the U.S. High Court of Criminal and Civil Affairs, the minimum requirement for expenditure on the establishment and provision of its activities in the current year is 8.5 million dollars. Taking into account that pending the adoption of the Ukrainian Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act, the examination of the case-laws, the application of the decisions of the general courts in criminal and civil matters was carried out by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the bill proposes a specified amount of expenditure for the retention of the court to be earmarked in part for the reduction of budgetary allocations under the Supreme Court programme of Ukraine, under programme 0601010 – the execution of justice, the Supreme Court of Ukraine programme, and partly for non-tax revenue, net income, parts of the net revenue of the state-owned unit companies and their mergers that are excluded from the budget. Ukraine's draft law is in line with the 2010-2014 economic reform programme – a prosperous society, a competitive economy, an effective government. The draft Ukrainian law, which has been submitted for your consideration, is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economics and the Supreme Specialised Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters. As a result, we ask for the support of this draft law in the first reading and in general because of the urgent need to make the necessary expenses for the operation of the court. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich, what position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 10 November 2010 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[for number 7317]] The bill proposes to appoint the chief budget officer of the State budget as Ukraine's Higher Specialized Court for civil and criminal matters and to establish a budget of 4 million 178 thousand and 4 ten thousand dollars for the period until the end of 2010. The funds indicated should ensure that the court functions in accordance with the requirements of the Judicial and Status of Courts Act, adopted on 7 July. Additional budgetary allocations are proposed to be provided at the expense of two sources, The first source is a reduction of 1 million $280,000 in budgetary allocations under the budgetary programme for the execution of justice by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, given that its mandate for the consideration of complaints, applications for decisions by the general courts in criminal and civil matters is referred to the newly established court. The second source is an increase of 2 million 889.9 thousand dollars per year of the planned revenue of the state budget from the net income of state-owned enterprises that are excluded from the budget and dividends of income accrued from the shares of households whose statutory capital is government property. The bill is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u117	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u118	According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, a bill on the results of the first reading could be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2010 following a first reading review of the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law. [[No. 7317]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u119	Thank you. I'm paying attention, reporters, be brief. Have a seat. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Vernidub.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u121	Ivan Verni Dubov. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u122	I'm here. Thank you. Dear friends, in the course of the judicial reform process, we have recently set up with you here in this room a higher specialized court in Ukraine on civil and criminal matters, and from November 1st he began his work. Well, of course, without funding, normal work is still impossible. Minfin supports this bill, which rarely happens, and you and I really need to take this opportunity. Therefore, I invite all the deputies to vote in favour of this law, and we immediately accept it in the first and as the law today. There's nothing to discuss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u123	Thank you. What about Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, who Moses handed over? Moses gave Carmazin his word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I will share with Mr. Moses the view that the Supreme Court should be financed in civil and criminal matters. But. What do you want me to put in that budget? I'm going to the Ministry of Finance. Do you realize what you wrote?Oh, my God! That's from the increase in revenue to the budget from the companies listed and so on, and what businesses. No businesses, no unitary enterprises, their associations, which you just wrote up, that the increase in revenue is going to be 4 million dollars, there's no, because they're not coming forward right now, 60 percent of everything goes into the budget. Because of this, it will be a completely empty, uncalculated law. This law does not conclude our Justice Committee. And I believe that, given that a proposal has now been made to enact this law in the first and second readings, this is another attack on the rights of national deputies, on the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council, this is a further attack on the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, which provides for the consideration of these bills in just two or three readings. And I'm making an offer, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, for a transcript right now, so that I don't try you in court, from me and the People's Deputy Moses. These are the costs to be invented at the expense of the State Administration. Not to be taken from the Supreme Court, for there are still 45,000 cases in the Supreme Court. And citizens write complaints all the time. And at the expense of the State Administration, it's absolutely no fear to take that small sum away from them. As a result, I ask you to put this proposal into the table, giving it the conclusion of Minust, everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u125	Finish up. Done? Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I think Yuri Anatoliyovich will understand us correctly if we support the proposal of a committee of profile to really adopt this law as a law as a whole. That's 45,000 cases, but these cases are going to be referred to this court, which is created, and it can't function if there's no funding. That is why I am proposing to the committee: the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on the appointment of the Chief Budget Manager of the Supreme Court of Ukraine]] Please vote. It's like the law. [[12:43:42]] For 262 The law is passed. The law was passed, Yuri Anatolyovich. And we'll put your amendment in another law if you don't mind. Let us now consider bill number 7422: draft law on certain matters of the organisation of the 2010 budgetary process. There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:44:23]] For 207 Offer supported. Please, the author of the Peclesenko Bill, Alexander Mikolayovich. You don't? Then the committee head is Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. Please, the position of the committee. Yeah, let's switch then. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, you have two minutes to get your aggrieved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u126	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Unfortunately, the systemless work of Parliament in all its assemblies has led to a situation where there is a conflict in the legislative field. Today, it is possible to face a situation where the same concept is treated differently by different laws. On this basis, our faction, together with our political partners, from the first days of coming to power, has made it a task to harmonise the legislative process. The bill, which is being tabled today, proposes to provide the Government with the conditions of State borrowing and to the Minister of Finance with the commitments made by the Government. At the same time, it is suggested that, in order to avoid abuse, it be clear who belongs to the family of concessionaires. Allocation of funds from agricultural production losses has been determined. In addition, it is proposed to halt some laws by the end of 2010, as well as to make some changes to bring them into line. This bill has been considered on the Committee, there are all conclusions, and I ask the House to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u127	Yes, thank you. Please, Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich and MPs! To avoid repeating myself, I report that the committee today considered this bill at its morning session and supported it. Please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u129	Thank you. Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are they desirable? Yes. We write: two for, two for, two for against. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u130	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. I don't think it takes a lot of intelligence to really support the committee's decision. This bill, these changes are extremely necessary today, especially at the end of the year. And so I call on all the national MPs who are present in the Hall to support and not to waste any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u131	Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u132	Please give the word to Sergei Volodymyrovich Sasa.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u133	Please, Sasha's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council once again shows examples of how not to do it in this situation: yesterday the bill was introduced, only today it was handed out to the people's deputies, today's committee meeting, today we are voting on it. But why don't we even refer to serious things like the ones mentioned in the conclusion of the scientific and scientific department on this bill? In particular, it is noted that the proposal for an article in the sixth draft, according to which the law takes effect from the date of its publication and has been applied since 30 November, does not meet the requirements of part one of article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which laws and other legal acts do not have a retroactive effect at a time, except in cases where they soften and invalidate a person's responsibility. So, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I would like you, as the person who ate the "teeth" in the procedure, to avoid such things in perspective, because this leads to a situation that took place literally yesterday at the adoption of the Tax Code, other legal acts. There is a procedure, and it needs to be followed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u135	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? He's checking in yesterday. We have a bill coming in this morning. This violates the Rules of Procedure Act — once. The Budget Code is being violated, as this law is allegedly called “On certain matters of the organisation of the budgetary process” and is actually being addressed, and should be renamed, “On the violation of the budgetary code” or “On the repeal of the budget code by the end of the year”. And the second. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible to trample on the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court? Yesterday only in the presence of the entire Ukrainian people were broadcast by the Constitutional Court, in my presence, because 54 deputies have filed a lawsuit before the Constitutional Court, decided that these positions were unconstitutional, declared unconstitutional since the date of the decision, and today you have recorded all these things without conclusion even the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are provided for by the Ukrainian Budget Code, you are now trying to stretch. Adam Ivanovich, such things cannot be done. Do you understand? The National Deputy Sas was absolutely right when he pointed out that this is a violation of both articles 1 and 58 of the Constitution, that you want to put it back in the law. I'd like to speak to the head of the head of the scientific and scientific management, Bordenyuk, who has recently been transformed into a service management. So, Mr. Manager of Most Anti-Constitutional Services, stop signing conclusions where you don't even mention them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u137	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I think you should be pleased that yesterday you defended your positions in the Constitutional Court, and today the Supreme Council is already responding to them. It's a reaction to your principled position. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, respected colleagues! Let's support Carmazin, his principles, and vote for Bill 7422. But I'm going to put two votes. There is an offer to accept it as a law as a whole. Who's to take in two readings, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u138	Objection. Objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u139	Voting, voting. [[12:52:55]] For 252 252 national deputies supported this proposal. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Law number 7422 – "On certain matters of the organisation of the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u140	We deny it, it's illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u141	2010 Please vote. And Carmazin says it's illegal, but please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u142	Objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u143	Deny the vote. [[12:53:28]] For 255 Decision taken. Yuri Anatolyevich, you will be able to appeal to the Constitutional Court again. We gave you a job to worry about, didn't we? It's under review. Yes, please call it Carmazin's last name. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, yesterday you saw the principle of the President, who called you all violators of the Constitution, constitutional rights and civil liberties. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I want you not to be such an intruder. I made proposals to the previous bill that I proposed the money that should go, real money, really money, into a court system that doesn't receive the money that you're now setting up the void, the previous law, so that they can be taken from the financing of the State Administration of the cases transferred from there. You have not put to the vote this proposal, revered Adam Ivanovich. In doing so, you have put yourself beyond the law. I'd like you to at least react now, because I'm still going to bring Adam Ivanovich to trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u145	And if I react, won't you serve? Who's to go back to the Karmazin proposal, please vote. We're on our way. [[12:55:12]] For-61 Yuri Anatolyevich, 61, including my voice. Unfortunately, don't go to court. The draft Act amending Chapter I of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the amendment to section XI, paragraph 1, of the Act on the Safety and Quality of Foods on the implementation of domestic production and slaughter in agro-food markets is under consideration, [[Registration number 7136]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:55:57]] For 203 Supported. Reported to Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Sergey Viktorovich. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! The draft Law provides for a minimum reduction in the number of acts from one issue and a corresponding reduction in the cost of implementing them from the State budget of Ukraine. But this will ensure the establishment of a system of organised milk production and animal slaughter from population holdings based on cooperative associations defined by the State’s targeted economic programme to support the development of agricultural cooperatives by 2015, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[of 03.06.2009]] [[No. 557]] This will, in turn, ensure that dairy and meat products are supplied to the market, which will meet the requirements of existing legislation on the safety and quality of animal products. Mine politicians are asking for the support of the bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, Lilia Stepanovna, Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Despite the fact that the title of the bill on the safety and quality of food products, the changes in the “Final Regulations” are essentially related to a more agrarian-veterinary issues. In particular, section III, paragraph 2, “The Final Position”, of this law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been mandated to develop and approve, within a period of three months, the National Programme for the Creation and Opening of Points for the Purchase of Milk and Ammunition Facilities of Animals held in the Households and to ensure that it is properly funded each year. The bill proposes to exclude the item because, in the process of identifying ways and means of solving the problem, the Cabinet of Ministers has found an opportunity to resolve the issue without the development of a special program and funds from the State Budget. I want to publish the committee's opinion. Most of the votes were supported by the Health Committee's proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers, and I emphasize this is the opinion of most committees. At the same time, we drew attention, particularly to the Conciliation Council on November 29th, second paragraph of the Supreme Council Resolution on the Adoption of the Bill in First Reading, which was commissioned to prepare for the second reading by the Agrarian Policy Committee. The position of the Health Committee should be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u149	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. You said you happened to get this law, it doesn't have anything to do with your committee, it's the APC law. Yes, will we please discuss or vote? We will. Press the buttons then. Yes, Lilia Grigorovitch will probably hand it over. Tsakchuk, please. Tuck, Tuck, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In principle, this law, now it's going to meet the technological standard. But now he's going to follow the technology standard. But I would like to remind you, Adam Ivanovich, just the history of this question. In October of last year, when there was a rule that milk could not be sold in the markets from 1 January 2010, we could not sell livestock that had been slaughtered in the farms, we continued this rule until 2015. But then I want to remind myself, I think, by the insistence of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, he's the one who made these proposals -- (a) to develop a separate program and (b) The Cabinet of Ministers will provide funding. To this day, when we adopted this bill in October, there had been a ministerial program since June. Then the Ministry of Agropolitics developed a concept to implement this law. And there's some kind of funding going on. But, dear colleagues, I understand that we can, in principle, vote in favour of this bill. But if that doesn't happen, these three or four years will fly by very quickly. And on January 1st, Ukraine will wake up, and I'll remind you of the article we adopted. Article 36. Agro-food markets. The implementation and circulation of unprocessed milk as well as carcases or parts of carcases and other hoofs are prohibited! No one can sell either milk or meat on the market. That's the problem! So we're on the same side, we can subtract these two points. But second, God forbid this program is being implemented. There are virtually no licensed kill points today! Ukooppilka is gone, it's not in the village today. There's no privates, there's no government. So once again, we can kind of support this bill. But on the other hand, let the Ministry of Agrarian Politics either develop a separate bill, or a separate program. And it'll provide funding. And then we can honestly tell people what these three years have done in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u151	Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u152	I give the word to Vasil Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u153	Vasil Kravchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u154	Vasil Kravchuk, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland Party. Our faction will not support this bill on the grounds that the government is self-sustaining from the responsibility and provision of sanitary standards in the construction and organization of milk, fighting sites. I mean, which have to be made up of farms for the population, in order to withstand all the standards. And it seems like the government just doesn't want to spend money on its own programs that were adopted before, so we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u155	Is the discussion over?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u156	One minute, Vaschuk, one minute. Speak, Catherine Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, you know, we can really, by adopting this standard, make a lot of negative problems. First of all, we're not helping peasants, because we're excluding the funding of this program, organizing moments like this animal to beat. And secondly, when we vote, we're going to make sure that no uncle has the right to have his own cattle, which he slaughtered, just take the pig out to market, because they won't put a stamp on it, because he's not at war. And the fighting three in the area or four. How can you do that? When we adopt every law, we need to think about how it will help people, whether it will help only those in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I am also solidarityd with all those who have taken the word that they wanted, probably as well, but it will come out, as always, that this law will not benefit the agrarian manufacturer, but the will of the hall. I'm voting on the draft bill number 7136. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:04:41]] For-174 The bill is not supported, rejected. And I would ask, really, the Ministry of Industrial Complex to do what's designed here, because tomorrow, we're going to face the problem of a more powerful field, as it was recently. Let us not take ourselves lightly. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's vote in favour of Law 6407 in the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote and move on to the Miscellaneous. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's going to be "Virgin" too. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let us support the first reading of the draft Law amending article 81 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the first reading. [[on the determination of how to pay for information and technology costs to ensure that cases of recognition and enforcement of decisions of foreign courts in Ukraine are handled]] [[6407]] [[13:06:03]] For 245 Let's not fight, I'll give you more time on "Variance" than an hour and everyone will. Another law will be passed, and we will no longer be. Registration number 6503 is the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice concerning the marginal amount of compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u159	Adam Ivanovich, don't make fun, there are serious problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u160	The cost of legal aid. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:06:46]] For 209 The law is not supported. Overruled. Yes, please sign up for "Virgin." There's no list yet, you're still writing. Yes, please take exactly an hour, until 14:07. Please, Jaroschuk Volodymyr Ivanovich. Wheelchair, please. Behind him is Cranville. Yes, Kovalova also tells him. Then six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! On November 16 of this year, the European Charter for Regional Languages or Minority in Ukraine was held in the Ministry of State. Today and the prospects." National MPs, deputy heads of the State Committee of Ukraine took part in the event of nationality, religion, representatives of the Information Bureau of the Council of Europe, representatives of the Commissioner for Human Rights, representatives of ministries and departments, heads of public organizations, national minorities, national and cultural societies, leading sociologists and political scientists. The main task of the round table was to look at the situation in the cultural and linguistic sphere of Ukraine and to formulate possible solutions to existing problems. I recall the commitments that Ukraine has made under the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. The real state of compliance today is that the language legislation of Ukraine is unsystematic, contradictory, and completely deregulation. For the Ukrainian public, the guarantee of national understanding is a constructive dialogue and a compromise movement to meet each other in the area of cultural and linguistic understanding. I call on my colleagues, as well as the representatives of the executive judiciary, to be guided by the laws and priorities of human rights and freedoms of every citizen of our country, not by the ambitions of political parties or individual political leaders. The interests of political parties and groups, individual politicians and institutions are secondary to those of individual individuals. The Language Bill in Ukraine can be a kind of new social treaty for Ukrainians after the Constitution, which will be agreed by the polyculture and multilingual people of Ukraine on the principles of mutual co-existence and social progress on the basis of an unconditional priority of human rights and citizens. The outcome of the round table was the adoption of the Resolution, which strongly condemned the provocative attempts to discredit the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities and called on the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and approve as soon as possible the Bill on Languages in Ukraine, submitted by the People's Deputies of Ephraim, Simonenko and Greenewets. [[Number 1015-3]] As stated in the Resolution, the Language Bill in Ukraine provides a mechanism for implementing the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages in Ukraine, contributes to strengthening international peace and harmony, enhancing tolerance, ensuring compliance with Ukraine's obligations to the Council of Europe, aligning Ukrainian legislation with European legislation and ensuring human rights and enhancing the international authority of our State. The following theme of my speech, the following. Dear colleagues! A venerable society! In accordance with Ukrainian legislation, the English language is the national language. But at the current stage of its operation, there is a gap that relates to the phenomenon of “Russian”, which does not allow us to adequately define and understand Russian culture, Russian language, as part of the social life of modern Ukraine. A large part of Ukrainian citizens identify themselves as representatives of Russian culture, the Russian language medium that originated and formed in Ukraine in parallel with Ukrainian language and culture. A mistake in practice in the modern language of legislation, official business and judiciary is that in our country it is accepted to identify the concept of Russian and Russian and to use them in Ukrainian in one definition: Russian. Because the Russian adjective reflects exclusively the citizenship of citizens, social and cultural processes and phenomena to a state such as the Russian Federation, not Ukraine. Instead, the Russian adjective, which exists in parallel with the Russian adjective, establishes ethnic and cultural ownership of Russian culture and language, the roots of which lie in the ancient state of Kiev. The international community also draws attention to the inaccuracy and invalidity of the translation of the adjective “Russian” as “Russian”. Yes, the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe, in its report on the implementation of the Charter of Regional Languages, published on July 7, focused on the special status of Russian, the traditional language of Ukraine in the lives of Ukrainian citizens. Thus, the culture, in particular the Russian culture of Ukraine, the Russian culture, and not the Russian ethnic culture of Ukraine, as a tradition of spiritual being, requires the restoration and development of a whole system of categories, particularly categories such as “Russian language”, “Russian community”, and so on. In Ukraine, the historical objective translation of the adjective “Russian” is “Russian”. The only exception for the use of an adjective “Russian” can be the definition of human belonging, object or phenomenon to the Russian Federation, not Ukraine. In view of the foregoing, we propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide to replace the Russian adjective with the Russian adjective in the language of legislation, official business, judiciary, etc. with terms, concepts, processes and phenomena that are not related to the Russian culture of Ukraine or are rooted in the ancient State of Kyivska Rus. I believe that in this way we will emphasize that Russian-speaking Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens who speak Russian, created the country of Ukraine 20 years ago. We are all indigenous ethnicists, nation - forming nations, and we all have equal rights and levels of commitment to our nation, society, and the future of our country. Polyculture is a proof that our country has the right to the future, without Nazism, without nationalism and without fascism. Just a clear concept, a general agreement will allow us to hold one hand at the hands of our nation for the sake of our children's future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u162	The word is given to the national deputy Yegorenko Tamara Vasilovni. She was given a word by her colleagues. She's got six minutes. She'll be followed by Odarchenko. Isn't it? Before you know it, I'd like to invite National Deputy Yuri Odarchenk. Ye Yegorenko, yes. Please, Tamara Vasilovna, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, Ukrainian citizens and popular voters! I would like to address the issue of public youth policy in Ukraine. To date, the problems of the young generation in our country are more pressing than ever, and they have been exacerbated by the global crisis today. In addressing these problems, the previous power has not been particularly successful. Perhaps there was no desire to address some issues and there was still a large number. There was no funding. More than a hundred youth social organizations estimate that 2009 was declared a year of youth in Ukraine and failed. The dialogue of the then authorities with the young was more like a conversation of the deaf with him. And many of the issues of concern remain relevant, pending to this day. Given the socio-economic conditions, the UN General Assembly proclaimed the International Year of Youth, which began from 12 August 2010 to 11 August 2011. And so far, we have many youth social organizations, movements that deal with the young generation and can claim to be on the international scene. We must recognize the contribution of young people to national regional world development. The Government of Ukraine has repeatedly stated that the social well-being of young people has been improved, and the President of the country has called the development of a healthy lifestyle for a growing generation one of the strategic priorities in public policy. In my view, there is a need for a State-wide programme for the consistent implementation of youth policies in the region and in international society. There is no need to speak separately about the importance of the role played by young people in the country. Many political parties have set up youth organizations, party schools, where the education and development of young prospective personnel are given sufficient attention. At the current stage of public development, young people have been held hostage by several unfavorable factors: this is an economic situation, you know, a socio-political crisis. Unemployment, the absence of the first worker, can be considered a priority material problem. jobs, low living standards. Almost half of the young people who have received education today are not in the profession. There is no official data on how much and how much work our public economy needs on a national scale, or the infrastructure of employers, has not been clearly defined. A serious public programme is needed to maintain the high school system, and vocational and technical schools cannot be retrained because most of them have begun to prepare cooks, cooks, sewing, accountants. Where are the workers, where are the metallurgies, machinery, construction and other industries? Among young people, the view was expressed that it was much more prestigious to work in a bank or any other commercial firm than in a factory, factory, mine, agribusiness. The fact that a large proportion of adolescents and young people today are not psychologically prepared for the economic situation cannot be without concern. Young professionals need to be adapted to market conditions. Many TV shows advertise how to win a million, but there is no program to learn how to work well, unfortunately. In the end, young people have the illusion of easy access to goods by passing on to socially meaningful activities. Of course, our young people are trying to solve issues abroad in search of a better life. So we're making cheap labor not for ourselves, but ready for abroad? This is how it happens. And there is no such place in his homeland for our children. Today, more than a million families are in line for social housing in Ukraine. I would like to say a few words about housing. The affordable housing for young families, for early lending, it was not implemented, only slogans remained after Yulia Timoshenko, who promised to do so. Accordingly, all of this has the worst impact on the demographic situation in the country. In that connection, I would like to address everyone sitting in the room. Colleges, the problems of the growing generation concern each of us. These are our children, these are our grandchildren, this is the future of the country. And young boys and girls should feel, not in words, but in fact, that they live in a State that needs them, that can protect them and support them. Let us stop using them at moments like electoral campaigns, in various mass campaigns, in rallies. For by such actions, we cultivate indifference, nurture, and lose the ability to have an attitude and defend it. They don't care about reds, whites and oranges. Or maybe not? They must be for our country's order to have a future in our country. Is it surprising that in such a situation young people cease to believe in political justice? And, dear colleagues, I would like to say this: let us do our utmost to restore the confidence of young people in power. They have a sense of pride for our country, and they must be needed at home. For only a strong, healthy, self-sufficient youth can look to the future and build that future. Our task is to support our young people on this more than mere thorny path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u164	Thank you. I invite Yuri Odarchenka, the “BUT” faction, “Fatherland”. He will be followed by Oreste Mutz, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u165	Dear friends, yesterday the Tax Code returned to Parliament with destructive language. The tax code narrows the rights of citizens and violates the fundamental rights and guarantees and freedoms defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. This is written down and it's returned to the Supreme Council. And I want to say that this is today the victory of the unhealthy mind that must be in the Supreme Council, in the government, and in the President's Administration, this is today a completely obvious victory of society, of the Ukrainian community, which has pushed this thoughtless approval into the Supreme Council, which has pushed for the thoughtless politics of the President, the government, and said that it is clear that the rights of the citizens of the state in Ukraine must be taken into account. Today, there has been a kind of deviation of power from that tax code that actually changes the civilisational choice in Ukraine that destroys the self-occupied population. But, dear friends, I want us not to be deceived by the seemingly noble intentions of the President and the authorities that have retreated today. We have clear signs that they are not open-minded and that they want to continue their business of making Ukrainians, well, you know, pulleys who will work without being interested in politics. What are the signs? Today, at 5 a.m., the tent garden, free space, was rough with the force removed from the playground. These entrepreneurs, who were there peacefully protesting, are now swept away by the police and actually beaten, with serious bodily injuries they are driven out of the field. Dear friends, there are other serious documents on the table that testify to the intentions of power. This is the Housing Code, which also severely narrows down the content and scope of the rights and freedoms of citizens as enshrined in article 22 of the Constitution. Today, thanks to this code, every Ukrainian citizen can be evicted from his apartment because of his flat salary. No political power, any authority in Ukraine in the past, took the courage to record such rights and powers in the Housing Code. This authority has written down, and we need to understand clearly its purposes. This authority recorded the amount of foam that increased to astronomical size. In fact, the amount of pennies can reach limitless levels today. I mean, a nice citizen can stay in an apartment. Examples of violations of the Constitution by the Housing Code are endless. So I urge Ukrainian citizens to be strong and protest against this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u166	I would like to invite the People's Deputy Orestes Mutz, the faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Vasil Kravchuk, the “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u167	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues, Western Ukraine has become the center of support for the government and the president on the path of order in the country. There is no exception to Ternopilska. On the day that the work on the Tax Code continued, there was no mass protests by entrepreneurs in this western area. There was an understanding that a dialogue between authorities was going on. That's exactly what it is. Yesterday, the Tax Code with presidential amendments was adopted at the request of entrepreneurs. Another important point. The agreement on the regional development of the Ternopil region between the Cabinet of Ministers and the District Council was made possible by responsible authorities in the country. Because Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovic is convinced that any region needs public attention in solving social problems. And Vice-Prime Minister Viktor Tikhov, I stress that the objective of the President, the Government and Parliament is a balanced socio-economic development of the state, the elimination of regional imbalances. Under the agreement, more than 1 billion dollars of government investments are already planned to solve the problems of the country. Third. In Ternopilska, half of all the newly elected circuit councils were headed by representatives of the Party of the Regions. The councils form a majority, stability and reform. The majority of those formed around the faction of the Party of Regions and in the district council are increasing. More than 300 regional deputies will be working in the Terrapolish in all the Paradises and in the area of the district center. It's more than Fatherland or Freedom and other parties. In ten areas of the country, the Party of the Regions won “Freedom”. And in certain areas, we won the election to the Paradise, that is, the people are hoping to solve the problems of the land on the part of the representatives of our political power and power. Western Ukraine is not as radical as it tries to put up separate policies. Western Ukraine is becoming a growing supporter of the Party of Regions. On the basis of the local elections, the authority of the Party of the Regions in Ternopilska increased 10 times in four years. In 2006, only 1.43 percent of the country’s voters supported the party. Today, 15 percent of us have voted for our political power. In the west of Ukraine, there is an increase in confidence in the authority of Stability and Reform. And I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the newly elected head of the Hussatian District Council of the Hoptian Region Party Nadia Andriyevna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u168	I would like to invite Vasil Kravchuk, the “BUT – Fatherland” faction. It will be followed by Eugene Marmazov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u169	Vasil Kravchuk, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland Party. One of the wise said, "The village is a cradle of state." Indeed, each one of us is related to him in one way or another. But it seems that the Ukrainian village has recently been separated from the state. I'm from Hmělničkina, whose agriculture is the sum of the work in the third quarter that took first place in the state. It's a big job victory, that's what I'm gonna say. However, we cannot help but notice that this medal has a reverse side. When a small Hmelnickin did not make, let's just say, some serious breakthrough in the indicators became a leader, so things got a little bit bumpy in other areas even worse. But could it have been different? Businesses work and achieve results, as they say, not because of them, but in the opposite. They didn't have any support this year, the state programs didn't work, the villagers were virtually deprived of the ability to take out bank loans. To avoid being loud, let me give you an example of my Hmiel. This year, only 47 agroforms were able to borrow under 27 percent of the year - olds, and only more than 600 agribusinesses in the Hmělnice region. Clearly, in the absence of full government support, all over 600 farms had a great need for money during the year, for their own circulation costs were not even enough by powerful farming, not by small means. In 2008, Hmelnicina received about 40 million dollars from the State budget for a battered young man. It was a great support and, above all, for farmers in the private sector. And this year, the area has not received a single penny for this purpose, and it is instantaneous. In agriculture since the beginning of the year, cattle have been reduced by 1,600 heads, and the number of cows by 600 heads and population has decreased by the same number of cows in less than a year. We can talk about the long - standing problems of the country for a long time. But it would have been better if the authorities had rarely been in the deep villages and had heard of those problems, not from someone else’s voice, but seen the reality with their own eyes. There is no agrarian policy in our country. There's only one in the name of the department of profile. There is total chaos in the agrarian sphere. Agrarian business leaders are forced to live today because all business plans fly under three hells when the prices for the production of fields and farms are barely changing every day and everything goes down. This approach to the village’s problems undermines the food security of the state. What do you hope for, Your Honor? That we will continue to be fed by Poles or Chinese? I, the former head of a successful company, find it very painful to look at this, if you'll excuse me, Armageddon. And it's twice as painful for those people who have created wealth with their bees. They survived the war, the famine, labored practically for thanks, rebuilding the colonies during the postwar period. At least they'd enjoy a little more comfortable and comfortable when they're old age. But they are still forced to participate in the questionable experiments that the authorities are conducting, and to do their utmost to fight for life. However, there is nothing good ahead of them. Cancelling the moratorium on land sales and the last piece of land they have left. They are horrified to see yet another rise in tariffs on gas, electricity, and the horror of pension reform and other unpopular measures promised to them by the authorities. Consider, though, a reform of recent times that is popular and good to an average peasant. And you want people to believe you? In large numbers, politicians who do so with the village and with their people do not have the right to eat Ukrainian bread, meat, and sweet tea. They didn't add anything to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u170	Before you know it, I'd like to invite Eugene Marmazov. In view of the fact that his colleague Schmelov gave the floor, it takes six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! The Special Privatization Supervisory Commission has instructed me to inform the Supreme Council of the totally abnormal situation surrounding the State enterprise of the Nicolai Pipe Plant. It is an enterprise of strategic importance. Produced a unique pipe product for space technology. A few years ago, it was artificially bankrupted, and its entire mortgage facility was handed over to private enterprises by the Oskar Production Association, one of which is, think of it, the water spill and the Aktabank Bank. Our commission has had to make great efforts to end this outrage and protect the interests of the State. Following our appeals to the Office of the Attorney-General, the Court of Justice ruled in the management of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, attention was paid on 30 December 2008, the Office of the Attorney-General was granted a cassation and the decisions of the courts on the recognition of NTZ were annulled. It would seem that the path to the restoration of justice is open, but this has not happened. The State enterprise is not returned, although almost two years have passed since the Supreme Court's decision. Those who have been dismissed from the enterprise, and those who have been dismissed, have lost more than 400 jobs, and have not yet been calculated on salary. This is because about a hundred decisions have been made by the courts for the enforcement of wages in favour of workers. Not the country, but Honduras is doing something. On this enterprise, I'd say, the tested forensic fibers mechanism is being ran. The Dnipropetrov Chamber of Commerce will be involved in the case of a request by the National Space Agency for the invalidity of a mortgage contract and the return of a property complex from another State's illegal possession for a year and three months under various premeditated pretexts. [[Well, he's under NTZ.]] There are two other cases in the proceedings of the prosecution concerning the return of the unique property complex to the legitimate owner of the State. As cynically as I would say, it is the language of everything that is done not to protect the interests of the State that is clearly attested to such a fact. The trial of one of the cases was suspended by the court prior to the examination. It was mandated to conduct a Dnepropetrov Research Institute of Forensic Research. Note that eight months later, the Institute's management reported that it was impossible to carry out an examination because of the absence of an industry in the Institute of Experts. The expertise is now being commissioned to conduct the Kharkiv Institute, and time is running out. All of this is known to the Government, the Supreme Economic Court, not to mention the National Space Agency, which, to be said, does not take the necessary initiative to defend the legitimate interests of the enterprise. Our commission, listen, our commission has addressed the previous Government five times in June of this year to the current Prime Minister, all ends with our communications being forwarded to the leadership of the Space Agency, who in turn requests our commission to facilitate his return. That's where the circle closes. Something deters both senior members of the Government and lower-ranking officials to protect and defend the interests of the State. This is a unique enterprise, which, I repeat, is of strategic importance to the State. I therefore request that I consider my information as a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, the Government, the Supreme Economic Court, the Supreme Council of Justice, the Attorney-General's Office and as a requirement to prevent lawlessness and to uphold the public interest. Dear colleagues, I understand that I did not say anything to be unknown. Well, the situation around the Nicopolski Pipeworks largely reflects the general picture in the country, particularly in the judicial system. But this is not a regular matter, for it is an enterprise on which Ukraine's economic power, progress and authority depends largely on. And if the State and its superiors are unable to defend their interests, all talks about Ukraine, as the rule of law, on the eradication of corruption, will remain empty. We have no right to allow that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u172	Please prepare appropriate MPs, as spoke of by the Marmazov People’s Deputy. I would like to invite the People's Deputy John Stoyk, the faction of "Our Ukraine". It will be followed by Stepan Kurpil, the “BUT – Fatherland” faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished colleagues, listeners! I would like to point out that just before me a representative of Ternopilska spoke and talked about how Ternopilstina and all of Western Ukraine loves Yanukovich. So what I'm saying is that Ternopolska will never cooperate with him, because the person working against the interests of Ukraine is a traitor to my country. And that is why today we, the Party for Ukraine!, are outraged by the brutal demolition of a peaceful tent town of entrepreneurs in Maidan, which took place today at 5 a.m. It is in itself the strong cessation of the peaceful action that realizes its constitutional right to freedom of assembly of those people who are today fighters for their rights that is a demonstration of the contempt of the Yanukovic regime for any rule of law and of the notion of democracy. Not enough, the use of force against several tens of people by thousands of militiamen was clearly disproportionate. And that is why we today need to talk about that the brutal demolition and removal of tents along with the personal belongings of people is a violation of their rights. And that shows the bright face of this particular regime that is in power today. Janukovic tells our country that he has no money for his salary or pension. It turns out that there is enough money for such foolish actions when gunmen are being dropped against those who carry out peaceful actions. Just a few days ago, Janukovitch had been drinking tea and pretending to be a friend of these people who lived in tents, and this morning he really caught them specialnass and those tents were buried in a pile like garbage and being driven in an unknown direction. It's a gang act and it's the real face of this regime, and it's trying to tell Ukrainians and foreign partners about reforms and a favourable business climate. What kind of climate reform and business climate can we talk about if taxpayers are enemies for this regime, who, together with their property, can be seen from Maidan as garbage? What kind of business climate can we talk about if yesterday a 25-page vote on the President's amendments to the Tax Code was voted by one wave of Mikhail Chechtov's hand, instead of voting separately? What reforms might be involved if Janukovic and his team in parliament contradict the Tax Code in contravention of the Law on the Budget Code, and we understand that it is not the power of the law, but rather the law of power, rather the law of power. The power they show to all Ukrainians. Such shameful actions will do nothing to the authorities except contempt and anger on the part of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u174	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u175	This authority wants to see the whole country crushed, humiliated, and I think that Ukrainians should be evaluated soon, and we're sure that this evaluation will be tougher than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u176	I would like to invite the People's Deputy, Stepan Kupil, to the BUT-Batychina faction. He will be followed by Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u177	Stéphane Kurpil, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko", the Party "The Fatherland". Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear TV sets and radio audiences! Yesterday we witnessed how the common principles of organized people and opposition led to the first, although not the final victory. We also witnessed brutal acts of authority, and it was evidently a reaction to the fact that under pressure people had to compromise with the adoption of the Tax Code. Brutality is also taking place. I would like to draw attention to Lvov, a situation that occurred during the construction of the stadium in Euro-2012. They don’t pay people’s wages there for a few months. People went on a strike. This strike was reported by the newspaper, including the High Castle. And what do you think, after that, they got paid? Oh, no. After that, they were called to the high offices and said, "You are released." Just because you didn't have to shine in the paper. Here's why people got fired from their jobs: just because they demand what they own. I want Deputy Prime Minister Boris Kolesnikov to intervene immediately in this situation, who is in charge of these matters, as well as the Attorney General of Ukraine, and to have people reinstated immediately. The point is, these people were still being humiliated. Since their salaries are paid in envelopes, they are suspected that taxes are appropriate, even though these meager wages are not paid. Hence, these people are willing to stand up for their dignity and dignity. And I ask that this speech be considered as a parliamentary appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine Pshonka, as well as to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Boris Kolesnikov. I'm asking you to return what you've earned right now is their money. In fact, the failure to pay is punishable by an article of the Criminal Code. People made money, people have to pay for their jobs. These people work in extremely difficult conditions. They work for Lviv, they work for Ukraine. And punish them for fighting for their rights, for not being afraid to stand up for them, for turning to them, especially to the press. This is totally unacceptable, uncivilized and wild. And if this authority works in this way, there will be new Midans, new protests that will end in total failure of this authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u178	Please prepare the appropriate parliamentary questions that National MP Kurpil has mentioned. The national deputy Yuri Gnatkevitch will now be speaking, followed by the national deputy of Vezivski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u179	Yuri Gnatkević, “BUT – Fatherhood”. Today, Wadima Kolesnichenko, a colleague of ours who again praised the Language Law that came from the former coalition. I would like to tell him that as long as there are Ukrainians in this room, and the Ukrainians are not only in the "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", not only in our BUT faction, they are also in the Party of Regions and they will not let this law pass, because they understand well that in the fourteen languages that are supposedly going to protect Vadim Kolesnichenko, the State will be supported in that case, and the oligarch only the Russian language will not pass. Dear compatriots, 89 years ago, on November 21, 1921, in the village of Bazar, in the People’s region of Žitomirščina, one of the most tragic events in Ukrainian history. On that day, 359 troops of the Ukrainian People’s Republic Army were shot. They were surrounded by the troops of Gregory Kotovsky and captured. The tired and hungry were driven to church for the night, think, for the night in the church, 359 people were shot, and for the morning at Kotovsky’s orders, all of them were shot. Kotovsky did not even feel sorry for the very young ones, the youngest of whom had been shot to death for 18 years. All 359 names are now on the memorial ceiling above the brotherly tomb of heroes. Who is Gregory Kotovsky? Before the 1917 revolution, he was a recidivist thief, for which he repeatedly went to prison, and then became a red commander. Not one Ukrainian head fell from his sword, but God’s punishment came upon Kotovsky in his lifetime. Four years after the tragedy in the village of Bazar on August 6, 1925, he was shot on the ground of jealousy by Meier Zader, the former owner of the Odessa brothel. A group of Ukrainian national deputies, who participated in a rally in the village of Bazar on November 21st of this year at the brotherly grave of the Kotovo Ukrainians, address the city's heads and deputies of the 11th city councils of Ukraine: Odessa, Zaporozhya, Žitomira, Izmaila, Horola, Lugansk, Gurzuf, Gornjak, Berdičeva and Sevastopol, asking to follow the example of Hmielnicka and to remove the toponymic map of their cities named Kotovsky, to rename streets and alleys. We ask the MPs of the city council of Kotovo City to begin the process of returning to the city its historic name, Berzula. We are addressing the President of Ukraine: the venerable Victor Fedorovich, you are like a believing and devout man, will not become Ukraine blessed by God, until he glorifies the name of the godless, great sinner, the recidivist thief, the cat, the murderer and the harlot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u180	I'd like to invite Vladimir Vizevski, the faction of "Our Ukraine". He will be followed by Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u181	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". Dear Ukrainians! The destruction of a tent town of entrepreneurs on the Main Independence shows that the patience of authority does not have the slightest intention of meeting entrepreneurs. Then there is no other way for citizens to defend their rights except by continuing protests. The government simulates responding to the demands of entrepreneurs and tries to deceive citizens. The acts of vetoing the repressive Tax Code and the current adoption of amendments thereto, which culminated in the so-called “salut of victory” in Maidan, by the regional deputy, are merely a spectacle of power, frightened by mass civil protests. In practice, the authorities refused to consider most of the business’s proposals for a fair tax system. In particular, in the newly adopted Tax Code, the authorities have preserved the rule that taxpayers cannot refer to gross costs of purchasing goods and services from entrepreneurs working on a simplified system of taxation. Thus, the authorities radically restrict the rights of the simplifieds and turn them into entrepreneurs of the second class, who are denied the services of enterprises operating on the general tax system. President Yanukovic's promises to maintain a simplified tax system remain at stake. Because the Presidential Administration's statement that changes to small business legislation will be made during the two-month period indicates that the authorities simply postpone the implementation of repressive norms, hoping that entrepreneurs will tire of rallying. The re-adoption of the Tax Code was a gross violation of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act. Without proper discussion, an articleistic discussion, and so forth. That is why the Party “Our Ukraine” calls on members of opposition factions to press charges against this law in the Constitutional Court. “Our Ukraine” warns the authorities against attempts to dissipate entrepreneurs, protesters and confirms their willingness to provide legal aid to entrepreneurs who are under pressure. Right now, at this moment, the deputy from “Our Ukraine” Andria Paruba was able to get the last rallyer out of power, which they illegally held during the capture of the tent. “Our Ukraine” supports the position of the National Coordinating Council of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs on the need to reject the tax code and develop, with the participation of entrepreneurs of new effective tax legislation. The government failed the chance to set up a dialogue with its own people. So we share the demand of entrepreneurs to resign immediately from the government of Azarov and the elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are responsible for the tax settlement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u182	I invite Vladimir Moysik, faction of "Our Ukraine." He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovski, “BUT” – “Fatherhood”. Ladies and gentlemen, don't make any noise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u183	Vladimir Moisik, political party “For Ukraine!” Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, respected Ukrainians! I want to talk today about the anti-Ukrainian tricks of the Minister of Education of Ukraine, Tobacco. Speaking of him two months ago, I called him a colonel of historical science, and I was told by the voters that not everyone understood his name. So he's a lying colonel, who he's assigned to himself with President Kuchma, and he's a lying doctor of historical sciences, because scientists, and even our fellow national deputies, can't find an autoferate or a manuscript of doctoral dissertation. But I am interested in his activities, not in science, but in the post of Minister of Education of Ukraine. The tobacco maker removed the phrase “recommended for VUZ” from the textbook “History of Ukrainian Law” written at the University of Kiev by the name of Shevchenka, headed by the dean of the Faculty of Law, John Griesenk. Why did he do that? It turns out that the authors allowed themselves to write about the differences between Ukrainians and Russians and between the legal cultures of the two nations. And he said that he was afraid of the Tobacco. Fear of the Smoker is understandable. Legal scientists give students real knowledge that does not come up with the inventions of the Tobacco Association of the Russian-Ukrainian community, or the so-called “Soviet people”. The smoker is not concerned about the opinion of either Russian or Ukrainian scholars, and he is concerned about the Kremlin’s political line, which he implements in his own country as a thief or an invader. Not long ago, Tobacco took part in the organized Russian information centre of the so-called “Ukrainian-Russian Cultural Space — From Opposition to Unity”. Tobacco and Russian agitators in one voice sounded a “genius” discovery, not one Ukrainian nation in Ukraine but two: Russian and Ukrainian. The organizers of the conference went even further. The Russian majority of Ukraine was declared ready to defend the rights of the Ukrainian minority. This Sabbath of Russian chauvinism was held at the educational university called Dragomanov. But if the tobacco industry and its Russian thinkers have been speaking this lie for hours, then the university's scientists have never waited for a word to tell the truth about this problem. I'd like to hear two sentences about my colleague Vadim Kolesnick's recent speech. That's a lie they're writing to you, dear fellow, in the Kremlin. Ukraine is the only one. The Ukrainian people are the only ones. This is what we thought and believe, regardless of the language that the Ukrainians communicate with each other. And I'll give you a historical example, Mr. Deputy. When the Kremlin and the Stalinese regime starved to death Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u184	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u185	The Ukrainian people were starving because they were Ukrainians, just western Ukrainians, Mr. Mikola Lemik, following Shuhevich’s decision, Bandera shot Russian Ambassador Milov in protest against the famine of the eastern Ukrainians by the communist regime. Today you're saying that these aren't the Ukrainians we were protecting, are we not the Ukrainians? Lies, shame on the tobacco industry, and shame on the chariots. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u186	I would like to invite national deputy Andrija Pavlovski to speak with him on behalf of Mikhail Volinec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u187	Respectable compatriots! Last Friday, the government’s State Committee on Statistics published data that the average salary in October fell compared to the previous month, and in the last three months there has been a steady decline in real nominal wage, which has reached nearly 7 percent. And that's because at this time in this month, there was a significant increase in food prices, in the goods of the first need several times, twice as much as in the severe crisis of 2009. And that's because there's a disgraceful phenomenon like debt on wages -- over a billion and a half dollars. And so by no chance do international agencies, the UN admit that we, Ukraine, and our citizens are the poorest in Europe that we have the cheapest labor force. According to the Academy of Sciences, less than 7 percent of the final wage in Ukraine is paid. While this indicator is more than 30 in European countries. To compare average wages in Ukraine this year, the average is $280, when our Polish neighbours are $1,300 per month, Czechs are 14,60, and our former USSR neighbours in Lithuania are over 900, and Russia and Belarus are already over 600. So we're really the poorest country. But this is not enough for our profit-winning oligarchs, and only 10 family clans control 90 percent of the economy, according to the UN, 80 percent of the population of Ukraine outside of poverty. I mean, these oligarches, for which the Tax Code was written, export billions of dollars each year to offshore areas where they hide them from taxation. And according to the National Bank this year, a bunch of oligarchs have hidden 20 billion dollars in Cyprus and other offshore areas. That's enough to close the holes in both the budget and the Pension Fund, but they don't, they rob ordinary people and small businesses. And so it's understandable why people were protesting like that, why people were standing on the ground. And they seem to have taken their demands into account, but the main requirement is to completely reject this disgraceful code no. And tonight, people who protested on the field, entrepreneurs, dozens of people were beaten, mutilated, arrested, held in prison. Is this a Danish democracy? Is that what we wanted for Ukraine? I think there's a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u188	Thank you. Before you know it, I'd like to invite National Deputy Michael Wolinz. Victor Taran will follow him. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u189	Dear TV setters, reverent radio audiences! At 5 p.m. today, the police broke down a tent town organized by entrepreneurs from small and medium - size businesses. Yesterday, we saw a vote in the session room in violation of the procedure and the Rules. I didn't even get a list of proposals that were made to amend the law, and I didn't get a comparative table or anything like that. For my part, as a national MP, I will appeal to the court because I cannot accept it. And as to the fact that Dennis Ostapov, Vitaly Gruzinov, Platkin, Vadim Mamedov were detained today, in this case, I personally had to release Dennis Ostapov, Vitaly Gruzinov and Zaplatkin from Shevchenkovský RAVD. What were they arrested for? Because they went to the police and asked if you had permission to dismantle the tent town? At the same time, a member of the Dennis Shevchuk Regional Party stated that it was the Enterprise Coordination Board that decided to dismantle the town. We have videos, all the channels today show how it happened, how people were being held back, and so on. Dennis Shevchuk himself has nothing to do with the coordination board and the protest of entrepreneurs. The government tried to glue it constantly while negotiations with Akimova, deputy head of the President's Administration, were held when the Maydan representatives met with Mr. Jaroshenko, Minister of Finance. But we see a complete lie. And the fireworks organized by the Party of Regions, Kiev has never seen such a huge fireworks in all its history. But at the same time, there were a thousand and two hundred people on Maidan, funded by power, who at the time led the choirs and organized the dances, as if they were celebrating the victory of the entrepreneur. I want to say that the faction of Yulia Timoshenko will provide legal, organizational support to every business representative, from entrepreneurs who are currently being persecuted by the authorities. We know that the officers of the tax police, the police from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the authorities and the criminal elements today are exerting tremendous pressure on all those who have taken part in the protest today. And I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that yesterday, without discussion in Parliament, a draft Social Dialogue Act was being considered in Ukraine. It provides an expert assessment of the International Labour Organization. Ukraine is part of the International Labour Organization. And the International Labour Organization, for its part, is under the auspices of the United Nations. And when Parliament Speaker Vladimir Litwin says who can tell us something and so on, it was him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u190	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u191	It was the speaker's reaction to the fact that I showed him a statement from the International Confederation of Trades that in this case it was inappropriate to look at the bill because there was an expert evaluation of the International Labour Organization that this bill was in violation of international conventions. And if that is the case, if international legislation continues to be ignored by the higher authorities, then in this case, the unions can apply their right to take care of such political leaders in those countries where they will appear from the airport and end up visiting all the organizations and buildings in which they will visit abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u192	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the national deputy Victor Taran-Taran to speak with Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u193	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, the Motherland Party. Yesterday a bill on social dialogue was discussed in Parliament. And if you look at it more broadly, is it even possible in our society to have a dialogue and an understanding between power and simply people? The dialogue between power and the common people is impossible and impossible as long as this grim and gray power exists. What could be the dialogue between power and people? If tonight, after the President's promise to listen to the people, the same people were beaten in Maidan, and they were arrested, blood was spilled. Remember, there was a portrait of smiling Yanukovic on the boards before the presidential election, and such charming words were, "I hear everyone." Tonight they heard everyone. They heard everyone who was on the Maidan who passed Midan, who was assigned from various parts of Ukraine to Kiev to say "no" to tax fraud. So they heard everyone and they answered each one with rubber sticks. In other words, "It's been better to live today." What and what, did their tents get in the way? Why can't they see the tent near the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defiled by the crusaders of the Moscow Church of Mariin Park, tents labeled "This is the private property of Communist Kzarykova", "Private ownership of Communist Samylik", other challengers? The police can't see it. Did they already have their own space? It's like Simone's for about a million and a half just under this property. And what could be a dialogue between this power and anyone who has heartache in Ukraine, if we have an education minister, this is where the MPs have been talking about him beautifully, the minister of education we have, which a decent person just won't give up. And what can be the conversation and understanding between the infinite poor and the rich; between the pensioners who are added to the pension of 10 dollars, and between the court oligarchs to whom the new Tax Code, and this new Tax Code allows and is allowed not to pay taxes, but to transport billions from Ukraine to the offshore. [[The minister of the “tiny government” Pavlovsky spoke beautifully, speaking in detail]] So in Ukraine today is the time of triumphant homage, today in Ukraine a time of lawlessness. And in the plague-covered land of aprior, there can be no dialogue, unfortunately, between power and people. Everything Ukrainian in Ukraine is foreign to this authority. They do not love and understand Ukraine. More than that, they do not even love their children because they do not want to leave the country free, rich, and happy. And that's why the nation is seriously ill, the nation is occupied and oppressed, but still unbroken and unspeeded. And so in the dialogue with the authorities, the last word will remain with Maidan. And this Maidan is not going to be enough Khreshtika, the name of this Maidan is going to be "All Ukraine". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u194	I'd like to introduce you to Valentin Zubov. He will complete the hour of the "Victory" deputy Yuri Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, respectable voters! Unfortunately, today, 20 years after the start of our economic reforms, we have to note that there are no major improvements to the best, unfortunately. Our people suffer, our economy suffers, everything that can suffer, sometimes even this silence happens. But I would like to draw your attention to our respected radio audiences, television broadcasters, our constituents, to the fact that unfortunately we continue to support destructive processes not only in the economy but also in other areas of public life. What do I mean? This week, I received a letter signed by the leading traumatologists from Simferopol of Crimea State Medical University. In their letter, they explained that the chief physician of the sixth emergency clinical hospital had decided to reduce 20 beds in the trauma ward. And this, please note, is happening when the Crimea Government is doing its utmost to do so, and in particular a week ago, the Crimean Economic Forum was held by the Crimea Government, with the aim of attracting foreign investment and seeking to make the Crimea a tourist of Mecca Ukraine. Logic suggests that the Government's desire to increase the number of vacationers in Crimea requires 3-5 training. And it would appear that the trauma ward of the hospital should not be closed but evolve. But the chief physician at the sixth emergency clinic is doing everything he can to close public beds while creating the ideal conditions for various commercial structures. Today, my parliamentary request to the Minister of Health of Ukraine was made in the Upper Rada Hall. I would like my statement to be a question to the Attorney-General. Because I personally consider the actions of the head of the 6th clinical hospital of emergency care in Simferopol as anti-State actors. Activities such as abuse and very active abuse of office. I believe that the chief physician should be released from his post immediately. I would like to reiterate my request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u196	Please prepare an appropriate request, which was made by the national deputy Valentin Zubov. He will complete the hour of the "Razne" National Deputy Yuri Karmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u197	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I wanted to look at a few moments -- a few moments that affect the will of the people who did it, especially in the Odessa region. Now in all the mouths of Odessa: and when the election of the national deputy ends, yet the previous summons of the city council of Georgia Selyanina, who has clearly won in the majority district of Odessa City Council, but the election of the Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal actually passes it to another; and what will be after the falsification of the elections in the village of the city-type Gulf, which is located in the territory of Belgrade-Dnistrovsk. The situation in the Gulf is particularly striking. From the decision of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Odessa Region: “unestablished persons with the aim of obstructing the free exercise of their rights by citizens, as well as the activities of another subject of the electoral process, have entered into a previous conspiracy with the members of the Gulf Village Electoral Commission with the aim of withdrawing the candidate for the position of the Gulf Village Head of Jarzeva from registration and refusing her participation in the elections of the village head.” End of quote. So there are four pages of the Criminal Offence Ordinance. The elections were held five times that Mrs. Jarceva won, but after the elections, there were those forgeries that were actually legitimized by the court. And the violations established by both the Attorney General and the Prosecutor's Office in the Odessa area, which have been prosecuted and prosecuted, now include the Court of Justice, which is charged with a criminal offence. I would like to ask the Attorney General to exercise control over this court, to oversee this court and what is going on there. In particular, how can the audit board's acts be stopped, and others that are now in the process of taking the decisions of this court. It's time to do this. Point. I want to bring to the attention of the Ukrainian people that at the time when citizens protest against the adoption of the anti-national, and recognized by the President, the Tax Code, I, Yuri Karmazin, have applied for administrative recognition of unlawful acts and decisions: the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, his First Deputy Adam Martinyuk, who have acted in violation of the Rules Act. These lawsuits have been registered long ago in the Supreme Administrative Court, but have not yet been considered. And if they had been considered at the right time, obviously there wouldn't be what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u198	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u199	I'm done. And what I'm saying is, the citizens of this country, even though Midan has been driven, will believe that victory will follow us, that Ukraine will be eternal, as there are eternal values to which Midan has gone, to which we all want them to take place. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-03-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests of Parliament! I inform you that on Friday, the Supreme Council from 13th to 14th is working in the "Vasne" regime, when it is not mandatory to have people's deputies, and every national MP has the right to speak on the current situation either in his own district or in Ukraine in general. So, the "Variance" hour is over. Let me remind you that people's deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions next week. On December 8, Wednesday, at 3 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings on "Ukraine in the World" in the session hall of the Supreme Council. The next plenary session will take place on December 14 at 10 a.m. And as always, on Monday, December 13, 11 a.m., there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
