ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:30:13]] They registered cards in the 428 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please welcome the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pisarenko Valeria, with his birthday, only 30 years old. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 7 July. Thirty-nine issues of the agenda have been considered. Three laws, one bill and one draft decree were adopted on the basis of the review, and one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration. 8 bills and 9 draft regulations have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we held consultations at the level of faction leaders -- and agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would meet with proposals for that. To consider 2 documents today is the draft Energy Security Act of the country and the draft Decision on certain issues in relation to the decision of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in the case of NAK Naftogaz v. ZAT “Roskrenergo”. [[Registration number 6656]] True, this morning, for some reason, there was a blockade on the rostrum. Obviously, this meant that there was no need to consider the matter. So I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs, if necessary, to create an informational reason to conduct a briefing or a press conference, so you don't have to block the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And much effort has been made not to find out about the relationship in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. And I would ask that we continue to maintain a normal logic, a relationship when we find an acceptable solution through dialogue. So now, like yesterday's decision, honourable colleagues, I would like to stress, yesterday was a decision made to deal with these two issues today, not under pressure. Dear colleagues! I want you to calm down again! Calm down. And once again, yesterday's decision was made and it was brought to the attention of the faction leaders that in order to preserve the normal work process we are going to consider these issues today. But we hoped that the opposition would provide a committee meeting to consider these issues. Because we're looking at them today without concluding a committee. So, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, once these two issues have been completed, not to address the relevant announcements of recess, we agreed that we would not call a recess as an additional means of blocking the rostrum. I don't think it's necessary to put it to a vote, but we have to accept our agreement on faith. If so, then I will put it to the vote and the decision of the Supreme Council will determine how to proceed. And now I'm announcing a question that consists of two bills. This is a draft Energy Security Act for Ukraine. [[Registration number 6658]] And the draft regulation on certain issues in connection with the decision of the Stockholm Chamber of Arbitration in the Naftogaz case against the Rosukre Energo. [[Registration number 6656]] Let's start with the ruling, and then we'll look at the draft law. Dear colleagues! We agreed in such a way that I would put to the vote a motion to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:34:28]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Sergey Sobolev and National Deputy of Ukraine Roman Zvaric
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, two draft legal acts are proposed: one is a decree, the other is a law. First of all, I would like to explain why it makes sense. Because it is clear that if we want to make a responsible decision, it should be contained in the relevant law. However, as long as the law takes effect in order to ensure the energy security of the State, the corresponding text is also proposed. I'd like to start with the law, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because it's a basic document. So, honourable colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll read the basics of the bill itself. And for the stenographer, I'd like to propose some textual clarifications that are going to just improve the basics of this bill. I will not read the whole law, just three articles. Article 3: “Prohibit the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from using budgetary resources as well as the funds provided by international financial institutions to fulfil the obligations of the State arising from decisions of Stockholm arbitration in the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” v. ZAT “Rosukrenergo”. Article 4: “Prohibit NAC ‘Naftogaz Ukraine’ transmission of natural gas purchased for use by consumers or intended for transit abroad, to exploit the obligations of the State arising out of decisions of the Stockholm Court”. And Article 5: “Prohibit NAC Naftogaz Ukraine” to use any funds, including credit resources, or funds arising from State guarantees for any direct settlement or indirect payment transactions through third parties or for the purchase of natural gas for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations of the State”. Now a very brief comment. I think you've all had a chance to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u3	Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u4	I think it was an opportunity for you to get acquainted with the Stockholm Court's decision. Of course, I don't yet have as head of the appropriate Temporary Investigation Commission confirmation that this decision is authentic. I mean, what we're reading on the Internet, but so far I haven't heard any objections either. It is clear from this decision that the representatives of the NAC have in fact given all the interests of the State in this very unpleasant matter for our country. In particular, NAC, at a Stockholm court meeting, claimed that the gas was purchased by the State, that is, through NAC, on illegal grounds. In addition, NAC officials at the trial itself stated that, without having yet a relevant court ruling, if other court decisions were to be made in the future, where fines or any foam would be applied in relation to NAC, they would already recognize the legitimacy of such a foam and such fines. In fact, this decision clearly follows a trend that NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” worked not for the interests of the State, but for the interests of Rosukrenergo. In fact, there is a comment by the appropriate judge who has considered the case, where he says that in 20 years of his experience in this court, he does not remember such a case in which the defendant actually does what he can to meet the prosecutor’s external requirements. In view of this situation, my distinguished colleagues, I propose that we make a responsible decision and ensure the interests of the State in this matter, so that all the circumstances involved in this matter may be fully investigated so that the State does not experience very and very serious circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u5	Finish up, please. Is that it? Thank you. Have a seat, please. Well, I suggested. The man says he's done. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Bills 6656, 6658. Yes, please explain the names of the national MPs. Gregory Smythuch and Andrew Senchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I took the floor to speak because of what I did. I have some new information on this matter, so of course the commission of inquiry will deal with it, I think that we, the people's deputies, will be more perfectly able to explain the materials under which Ukraine has either lost or may lose, or may bear such a heavy, in my opinion, the consequences. But at the same time, I want to pay attention to why. Why people's deputies when I spoke earlier when another matter was being considered, you remember when Romania filed a lawsuit against Ukraine concerning the distribution of the territorial shelf located near Snake Island, and why the active position, including the President, was passive. And then when the ruling coalition was different, that's your side, why didn't you raise the question that Ukraine is losing a very large territory and losing a very large economic, so to speak. Thanks in just one case, I will remind you that if Ukraine had turned down the trial in The Hague, Ukraine would have never lost that position. And I'm counting on those people who took part in this case to be criminally responsible. It's a crime against the state! I would like the Supreme Council to deal with this issue sooner or later, although the prosecutor's office today answers my questions that there is no criminal element, I do not agree with this position, and I consider this to be one of the examples where Ukraine really had to defend its intellectual property interests, including the Supreme Council. With regard to today’s consideration, I am no doubt. It is important to consider fully, and Ukraine’s precautionary measures should be taken if there are grounds for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u7	Alexander Goodima. The right to speak is given by Andrew Sánchenko. And Alexander Bondar. In a minute. If there are any other undeclared factions, please signal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u8	Gudima National Deputy, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yulia Block. I'm not going to convince anyone today to accept those two bills. All I have is an address and I'm going to start with the faction of Vladimir Lithuania. Dear colleagues, if you refuse to vote today for those two bills that will make it impossible for Firthash and the company to transfer 50 billion dollars, you will thus allow each Ukrainian to be removed from his pocket over one and a half thousand dollars this year. And we don't have to wait for the commission to decide. Those funds can be devoted to Furtasha and the companies tomorrow. That's why we call for the commission of inquiry to continue working, to find the culprits, but not to be able to destroy our budget today. My second address is to the Party of Regions. For two years now, the entire Ukrainian people have known that you have a group called Firtash. Eliminate this concept, perhaps it is no longer there. And maybe it won't be like you vote for those two bills. That's why you won't let your grandmother, your grandfather, many unemployed people, who still don't have the money to pay for utilities, take those 8,000 dollars, and not allow the state budget to be destroyed. And I'm also addressing the Communist faction. We do not need to examine who is to blame. We need to make a decision today: not to be able to undermine the foundations of our nation. Because the financial crisis continues. Ukraine, if God forbid, will be cut off from the budget, and it will be bankrupt. Millions of people will not forgive you. 50 billion dollars is on the conscience of the Firthash team and similar. Please don't let me destroy you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u9	Alexander Bondar, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to address the coalition representatives so that they can reject the political interests, the emotions and look at the precedent that may arise in our country. I led the Fund for five years, and many times we took part in the protection of the interests of the State, including in international courts. Even in a terrible dream, I could not dream that I would protect the interests of not the state, but the commercial structure. To that end, there was an “K” office in the B.S.A., which immediately set up a criminal case. Now something has happened in our consciousness, we're completely calmly discussing what's more important, commercial interests or national interests. If we are for the first time, and this is the second time that the state is not defending its interests, it is about commercial structures, the first time that the return of the Lugansk Shipping was counted in dollars and it now turns out that the state is to blame for the previous owner after the second sale. If we go this way, we don't have enough budget to account for social payments. I'd like you to understand that and take this very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u12	Once again, I want to say, no matter how the previous authorities act, no matter what mistakes they make, you can't take on the interests of a private structure if public interests are being defended. This is the axiom of every civil servant, including the national deputy of Ukraine. I am addressing you, be alert, and do not make this terrible mistake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to put this to a vote. The first, according to the registration, is to put to the vote a draft decree on certain issues in relation to the decisions of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in the case of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine against ZAT "Rosukrenergo". [[Registration number 6656]] For the adoption of the draft decree as a basis and as a whole. [[10:47:05]] For 186 By faction, please: The Party of Regions is 0, Block of Timoshenko – 133, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 53, Communists, Block of Lithuania, perfunctory – zero. I will now put to the vote for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Energy Security Act of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6658]] [[10:47:43]] For 185 Not supported. By factions, please: The Regional Party is 0, "Timoshenko Block" is 132, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 53, communists and "Litvina Block" and non-factional is zero. Now, to go through everything, dear colleagues, you listen. Now I'm going to set it up as the basis for the draft regulation, so please define yourself as the basis. [[Registration number 6656]] I put it as a foundation and in general, now as a foundation. [[10:48:30.]] For-182 Not supported. Now it's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u14	Please use fractions: Region Party 0, "Timoshenko Block" 130, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" 51, communists and "Litvina Block" - zero, non-factional - 1. I am now voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Energy Security Act for Ukraine. [[Registration number 6658]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:49:11]] For-182 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: The Party of Regions is 0, Block of Timoshenko - 131, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 51, Communists, Block of Lithuania and non-fractional - zero. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting for re-reading the draft decree, registration number 6656. [[10:49:53]] For-179 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption based on draft law, registration number 66. Excuse me, I'm putting to the vote a motion for re-reading the draft law, registration number 6658. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:50:29]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, since the Supreme Council has not identified any proposal for a decision, I suggest we do so. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will address the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which will essentially explain the content of the proposals contained in the draft law and in the draft decree requesting the government to provide relevant information in response to this issue. And I'll add there, if you don't mind informing us about the Black Sea shelf, how Ukraine lost it in court, and how we were then defending Ukraine's interests as states. And then together, when we get an answer from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we will discuss and demonstrate that we are the only ones in defense of Ukraine's national interests. Is there no objection? We'll assume that we've agreed on that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question that concerns the draft Tax Code. In view of the wide resonance of the document in the Ukrainian society and the efforts of Ukrainian politicians today to improve the document, taking into account the need for detailed and thorough work and the initiative of the President of Ukraine. And given your moods, they are accumulated in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree on the adoption of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring this matter to a public discussion. [[Registration number 6509-P1]] One moment, fellows of honor! So I'd like to ask that we look at this issue right now in the session room with a reduced procedure. Please vote. Dear colleagues, all other suggestions apply to the procedure for dealing with the matter, and this is about sending it to a public discussion. That's a very different question. [[10:52:49]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me, as the author of the draft, to inform you of the content of this document. In view of this, the Rules contain all of this, and read that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make a public discussion. Read it. Adam Ivanovich, show them the standard, please show them the standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u15	Article 114 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u16	Honourable colleagues, taking into account the important social, economic and political significance of this document, taking into account the fact that it has been given attention or is not the whole of Ukrainian society, taking into account the fact that a project prepared for the second reading is subject to a huge number of amendments, is being proposed, honourable colleagues, to present this document, a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to a public discussion. In this connection, it is suggested that the committee should forward this document to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine so that the Cabinet of Ministers can publish it and organize a discussion of the document. Because the efforts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss the matter materially is not enough. And there is a mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers in this regard that they should organize discussions, generalize them, and refer them to the committee. But I see your hands, I see, the time is coming, you'll get the word. Have some kindness. Generalize these proposals and submit them to our profile committee. At the same time, we propose, i.e., the Supreme Council in the draft decree, to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine handle the budget for the following year on a new tax and budgetary basis. And we suggest that the committee prepare for the review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by September 10th draft of the Tax Code. And control over the organization of this work is placed on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, if you'd like to sign up for a discussion of the document. As for other proposals on deviations, on the procedure of consideration, we will consider when we come to a consideration of the substance of the matter. Please sign in. Anatoly Matvienko, Sergey Teryohin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u17	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think this initiative really deserves attention. I believe that such documents, or such a level of documents, should be seriously discussed in the Supreme Council, with the participation of the Supreme Council, and in the Cabinet of Ministers. And this is a serious warning from the Cabinet of Ministers, which isn't even being consulted by the Supreme Council. And then if we had a serious discussion here, not just pressing buttons, it was obvious that this document could never have been considered in the Supreme Council in the first reading. So it's a business abuse, it's nothing but a struggle. But I want to ask you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that if we're going to bring a project into the public debate, we might as well pass alternative bills. And there are alternative bills, so let's also print them, or we'll ask the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the alternatives, to discuss this bill. Then it will be clear that there is an alternative. And then we can actually compromise, which will give us a normal tax code that will stimulate production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u18	Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I have an offer to clean up the idea of taking now and going through all 5,380 rights of this Talmud, I apologize for insulting the Talmud. It's one copy, it's for every MP, it's got to be a copy like this. Please tell me, what is the 114th article of the Rules that relates to the first reading? The public discussion may be the first to read. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, look more closely at the Rules when you refer to them. The second question. Please tell me, what's the point of discussing this mess when about 500 pages of text came up with 3.5 thousand pages of notes? Again, 5380. So the only way to move forward is to cancel the decision to adopt this bill in the first reading, to send it back to the government, and let the government follow the President of Ukraine's instructions on public discussion there or something that he wants. So I can tell you that if it wasn't for the opposition, the country would have gotten this horror and it would have been voted about by the Court of Justice Act or by the Budget Code Act. Let's not get tired of anybody's head. The draft decree of Mr. Lithuania states that by July 15, the committee should process these amendments and then turn over the people on behalf of the Supreme Council. [[Imagine how many days are left.]] How can you even write like that? The cancellation of the decision, the re-reading of the first reading, and let Kabmen be responsible for this again and again mess he's given to the members of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u20	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u21	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Of course, what has now been said, well, has caused some emotions and has even been enjoyed by someone. But I'd like to distinguish two things. Either make a case or bury it. Bury on the ground. What is suggested by previous reporters is to bury on the ground. There is nothing wrong with people discussing the Tax Code. Because the Tax Code, unlike other special laws, applies to everyone absolutely. And not only businessmen, but also any natural person. Everybody knows that. In these circumstances, what you see is a disgraceful phenomenon, that 3.5 thousand amendments to 500 pages, is incorrect. There could have been 50,000 amendments. Because once again, the Tax Code applies to all citizens of Ukraine. And so when Ukrainian citizens express their position, not only did they do nothing wrong but they did something positive. As for our faction, I think you remember that we said that many articles needed to be changed before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u22	Mikhailo Chechetov. There's no procedure, in short, there's no procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, it was possible to understand the Ministry of Finance, which, in a climate of time, wanted us to adopt the Tax Code this year, and for the first time, the new budget was developed on a new tax basis. But on the other hand, of course, if we use miners' terminology, we must issue a quality document to the mountain that must be understood in society. Therefore, the solution, the compromise that has been made, I think, is the most optimal, effective and reasonable. On the one hand, we reserve a temporary lift until autumn in order to consult the public again and get the best version of the bill. On the other hand, the adoption of it in the first decade or the first half of September gives us an opportunity to carry out the strategic task. Establish the budget next year on the basis of the new Tax Code. We therefore support the decision contained in the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let's agree that, yes, there is no time to consider, but I would like to remind my colleagues that since June 17 he is on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind my colleagues that both Kabmin and the Supreme Council have worked together, perhaps not always agreed. And at the same time, dear colleagues, you were all against us discussing the adoption of the law in the second reading. When I made an offer to reconcile positions, Vladimir Mikhailovich did not like it either. I understand that a process is needed, not a decision. Let's take a look at this decision, and then we'll announce the competition, who gets to people first, and they'll say that he's made that decision. Because they shouted: “Go out for a discussion, consult with people, and now we don’t want to consult people. So, your honor, I'm going to put a draft ruling to the vote, and you're going to decide. Because I think it's a compromise. Otherwise, we will torture each other in the Supreme Council to make the right decision. And the committee needs to work at the level of preparation for second reading, to be transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should find an opportunity to publish it, taking into account the stacks of papers. [[B in m in s a l in]] Option? To the second reading you have to do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Work! Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 6509-P for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we will sit in the Supreme Council and work on this document. Please, don't worry. [[11:03:51]] For the 250. Decision taken. Write down one minute from the factions, please. Names of the national MPs, please. Viacheslav Lukyanov, please. Then Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u25	Please give the floor to Chechov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u26	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u27	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We have put Parliament's work on a constructive footing, and we have begun to make positive decisions. We have before us a whole package of legislation that is looking forward to the state. We also need to put an end to the budget code today. We voted on the articles in full. Today, we must take into account the systematic assessment of what we have voted on, take a final decision and implement it in order to enable the Government to establish a new budget on a new budget basis. Today, on second reading, we need to consider the Referendum Act and a number of other bills. I think we're gonna have to work today after six hours. Fortunately, I have heard many calls to the Supreme Council, where people are pleased to see the intensity of our work, they say, finally Parliament has begun to work. That's how we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now, now, I just, there are replicas. He's in the head of the Supreme Council right now meeting with the minister of foreign affairs of one of the states, so he's gone not because he doesn't want to listen to you, but because he wants to meet you. Please, Lipina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, we are here to discuss publicly, but we need to determine what to discuss, discuss a government option. So let me tell you, there's not 5,000, there's 200,000 proposals. To discuss our amendments to the government's version, which are the amendments. Because I want to say that of the 5,000 amendments, the amendments are completely the opposite, absolutely the opposite. And some will support each other, others will support others. In this case, we have to actually go back to the re-reading procedure, then there's a point to discuss, and then it's going to be clear how to take this public opinion into account. For the discussion is not just to talk, but to talk about the results of public opinion. So I just encourage all the MPs to take the public debate seriously and I assure you that the respectable Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u30	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u31	finish the word. After this discussion in September, we will never accept this codex because there will be hundreds of thousands of comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u32	Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u33	Please give the floor to a very well-known registrar, Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u34	Sasa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I wanted you to pay attention -- unfortunately, there is no Vladimir Mikhailovich -- 114 articles to which you refer say: “The outcome of the first reading of the bill”. The Supreme Council has determined that it has decided to send a second reading, so since it is not possible to work on the deadline set, 5.5 thousand amendments to the Supreme Council must find a way out. But not the solution offered by the Head of the Supreme Council, but the decision to take the first reading had to be overturned and then set aside for discussion. That would be logical and legal, and that is not logical and not legal. So bring these decisions into line with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Each of you has just been talking about the Tax Code for the past month and a half. Everyone. Or most advocated that he was not fit to do so. I think the Supreme Council has done very wisely. If you want to now accept it as a whole as a code, the Supreme Council can do so. That's why. That's why I understand some of the political forces that took away the goat's agitation, because now there are people who have been led to it. Under the walls of Parliament that cannot be adopted by the Tax Code. We didn't accept it. What should these people do? They have to pay for what they stood for, and so on and so forth. That's why I understand your scream that you've been taken away from the goats of agitation. But you yourself shouted that it could not be made, the decision was made. A draft decree is under consideration to hold a celebration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. We have two bills here. I propose a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:09:42]] For 236 Yes. Please, John the Rabbit, 2 minutes. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u37	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National MPs, July 16 is 20 years old from the date of the adoption of the Declaration on Ukraine’s Sovereignty. The decision-makers suggest that the 20-year anniversary of this age-old event be properly celebrated. Ukraine’s Declaration of State Sovereignty introduced the idea of Ukraine’s independence, the idea of creating a state of its own in power corridors. Until then, she had lived on public squares, in the hearts of millions of ordinary people. The Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine declared that Ukraine, as a sovereign, a national state, is developing in existing borders on the basis of the exercise by the Ukrainian nation of its inalienable right to self - determination and that it protects and protects the national statehood of the Ukrainian people. The Declaration reflected the will of the people, in particular the will of the then Supreme Council to create not any state, but a nation-state, a European state, a democratic state. She noted the Ukrainian’s desire to return home to Europe. The Declaration became essentially a program for achieving Ukraine's independence, a program for creating the Ukrainian nation and its own state. The Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine is the product of the broad social consensus of all the political forces that were represented in the then Supreme Council. These were great times, and they were made by great men. So our proposal is also to thank the parents of the declaration and, in fact, the parents of the Ukrainian state. It is our responsibility, the responsibility of those who have come to politics in an independent Ukraine. In order to perpetuate this event, we propose to hold 10 a.m. on 16 July 2010 in the Plenary Hall of the Supreme Council, to invite the President, the Prime Minister and members of the government, the Ukrainian National Deputies for the First Call, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the participants in the Declaration. Such a high representation comes out of the extraordinary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u38	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u39	It comes from the vital importance of this document, the life - sustaining influence of the Ukrainian statehood on the global processes of Europe. We need to take this opportunity to show the world that there is a Ukrainian state, there are people who are going to provide for its future. So please support our draft declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 6606-1, the author of the bill is the Head of the Supreme Council. The difference between the bills in the last paragraph. If the bill, reported by a fellow rabbit, says that the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s apparatus for the preparation and conduct of solemn assemblies, the bill proposes that the Head of the Supreme Council arrange for the organization of preparations. So we're raising the status of this meeting. I think, come on, dear fellows, there's no need to discuss it. I see the session room is ready. I'd like to support the very second draft of the Head's ruling, where I've already explained the difference between rising status. But we will vote in order of arrival. We'll be all right. The head will ask. I mean, you have to be willing to invite, all right? I'll put it in order of yield. The draft order of John the Rabbit, number 6606, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, is put to the vote. [[Hare, Head, Kostenko, if you will.]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:59]] For-163 I'm voting on the draft decree number 6606-1, which is submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council, the People's Chamber of Lithuania, on the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:14:35]] For 415 Thank you. Copy that. You don't have to add anything. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin, thank you, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The first paragraph and the second paragraph, Adam Ivanovich, differed from the second paragraph, as we voted in the Supreme Council's resolution, except that the bill prepared by Zazem, the Head of State and the Kostenak, which in the second paragraph was invited to the President, the Prime Minister, the members of the government, the leaders of the central authorities and the national deputies of Ukraine, the participants in the adoption of the Declaration, the members of the Association of National Deputies of Ukraine. The most important thing for us to do is to invite the National MPs to the first vocation, which has led to this Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, the sovereignty that is now being handed out on crumbs. Let them look you in the eye, let them all look us in the eye, let them see whether they approve or not, according to the shelf, according to the nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Clearly, we are determined to arrange this meeting for the Head of the Supreme Council, and he will ask on his behalf all those who had a direct bearing on it. We are considering a draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Registration number 6495. Dear colleagues! Let me remind you: we have recently concluded that we need to reconcile some of the positions that we have been voting for a few hours today in order to adopt a final regulation, and especially when we agree between the Ministry of Finance and our budgetary committee, so that we can find an understanding where we would take into account the observations of the General Legal Office, where we can count on it, it was the mandate of the Supreme Council, the issue of amending the Rules of the Supreme Council, and we have decided that such changes cannot be here. And as far as possible, they took into account those proposals that came from the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, based on the fact that there was no veto on the bill. The committee is ready to inform us of the work done. Please, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u43	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs and invitees, carrying out the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 6th to finalize Bill 6495, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority, worked out the results of the voting of amendments and proposals to such a bill and examined the possibility of taking all the comments into account in the bill. As a result of the work done, there are agreed proposals for the law that you have been given. Therefore, taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends that the Supreme Council support agreed proposals for the draft Law on amending the Budget Code. [[No. 6495]] On the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, taking into account its consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 July 2010 and the proposals made today for the final drafting of the bill, the adoption, in the second reading and generally as laws, of the Ukrainian Budget Code in a new edition, with the recognition of such that the Code of 21 June 2001 was not valid, with subsequent amendments. [[No. 6495]] [[Number 2542]] However, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in relation to the Adoption of the Ukrainian Budget Code provided for their entry into force at the same time. To entrust the Committee on Budget Issues with the participation of the relevant structural units of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when drafting the final text for signatures by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt the Ukrainian Budget Code in a new edition and the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Budget Code, to ensure a solid numbering, the conformity of internal and external references, and to make appropriate corrections to editorial and technical legal details. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Have you heard any information, please, about any additions from the Ministry of Finance? Feder Alexiyovich, isn't it? It's a second reading, no questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u45	Not yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u46	None. Now, dear fellows! Dear colleagues! Be careful, you have been presented with proposals for a draft Ukrainian law to introduce Ukraine's Budget Code for adoption in second reading and as a whole as a law. [[by registration number 6495]] Again? Dear colleagues! So once again, I remind you, or I draw your attention, that in these recommendations, in these proposals that we are about to accept with you right now, we take into account the balance that came out when we considered it. It's different. An absolute majority of the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority under paragraph 12 of section 6, paragraph 28, of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been taken into account. That is, all the rights and powers and opportunities that the Supreme Council had in forming, the adoption of the basic economic law, the Law on the State Budget for the Supreme Council remains. It's taken into account our proposal, which was in the first reading that we're with you now, by adopting the law as a whole, we're dividing it into two laws. That is, the Law on the Budget Code will be clean as a law, and there will be a separate law to make appropriate changes to the laws in connection with the adoption of the new Code of Budget. I mean, once again, by adopting one law, we are now voting on the commission to sign two laws, to break the Code of Budgets, and to amend the laws. And another suggestion, be careful. There is a suggestion to exclude part four of article 27, which states: “The dimensions of the state social guarantees, which are determined by the minimum of living, are established by the relevant laws of Ukraine, the State Budget Act of Ukraine and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to settle such matters by law. So basically we're with you, if we accept this, we're going back to the well-known decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Constitution makes it clear that these issues are governed by laws, laws, and only by laws, i.e. they should not be adopted. There is another novelty that even local budgets, or local councils, can make changes to the social standards that we have adopted with you. If they have no funds, they can afford not to do so. Here's what I'm putting to the vote with these proposals. Please, Jaroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u47	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that these items, which Adam Ivanovich has introduced, we vote separately for them and not vote now. Because 4 and 5 points, they're perfectly normal and they were accepted, voted, and we're not making any kind of conflict with the relevant laws. Because the Constitution of Ukraine clearly defines, article 95, that all expenses incurred from the State Budget are determined by the State Budget Act. So it is these articles that give such authority to the Cabinet of Ministers, and there are no collisions here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u48	Yes, dear colleagues, let's exchange thoughts a minute from the faction before making a decision. Sign up. Yes, please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u50	Microphone Light.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u51	Oleg Laszko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of "The Fatherland". It is a rare occasion when Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk must be supported. He is absolutely right to say that we cannot authorize the government to regulate matters that must be regulated by law. Especially when it comes to social benefits, their level, and so forth. It's a manual budget management mode and it's unacceptable. This rule should therefore be removed from the budget code and not supported. The Supreme Council can only establish the amount of expenditure, the direction of expenditure, and this is provided for in article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is only by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u52	Thank you. At last, Lazko began to praise me, which was not good. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u53	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I want you to see what we're up to right now. We have 54 points and the second is a very serious paragraph. In fact, this is about the third reading. But the third reading, in which the comas, everything else, we're tasking the budget committee, which has already shown its unprofessionality, I'd say so. And we trust this budget committee. Moreover, we write in paragraph 2 of the commission: “to entrust the committee with the participation of the relevant structural units, the apparatus to make, to ensure that internal and external links are consistent, to make appropriate corrections to editorial and technical legal clarifications”. [[second part]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have no right to delegate our duties to anyone. The point is that we have to work everything out. And I support, Adam Ivanovich, your offer. You're right, not because someone praises you, but in this case you're right. And these things are unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u54	Thank you. Melnik Peter, please, the faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we have considered carefully at the committee meeting and there are absolutely no commissions there. It is indeed about the implementation of 95 articles of the Constitution and the obligation of Parliament to adopt the law, but when it will be. And this will be done on the basis of the law passed by Parliament. [[Social expenditure]] But the budget is up to date, it's always there. And, of course, social expenditure within the budget, the government should make its own decision in the current, current, decision-making process, with the following mandatory, I stress, mandatory consideration by the Supreme Council and the approval of the law. Therefore, there is no conflict, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u56	Read the Constitution. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I understand that there is no rule in the Constitution that allows the Government or individual ministries to issue regulations in exchange for laws. But let's think that we have cases in our lives where certain social groups of people require extra attention, and we haven't considered the law with you, we haven't adopted it. You and I know that even in the most difficult years, we still have a budget overrun. And we know that you and I are adjusting the budget, that is, changing the income and expenditure normally from three months, i.e. three blocks in September. Thus, within nine months, the Government has additional funds that it can manage. The Government has the right to legislative initiative. If any additional preference is to be granted to individual social groups of persons with disabilities and so on, the Government may, as part of the budget implementation, send this money, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u58	You can't. Please, Hara from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I categorically oppose those norms that relate to social norms and, above all, to the minimum of living. We have been artificially drawing for a long period of time, setting a subsistence minimum of 5-6, without realizing that this is an objective social standard. The Cabinet of Ministers wants to remove social partners, the public from establishing a subsistence minimum, as required by the Housing Minimum Act today. Therefore, I, Adam Ivanovich, very much ask that I vote that the standards relating to social standards, with a minimum of living, be excluded from there. And I would also like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers has once again failed the President. The President gave the task of achieving the social norms of Europe as soon as possible. We are giving the city and the area a local solution to the reduction of these most social norms. They're not going to support them in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we will now vote separately on this amendment. The point is before that. Pay attention! If we write down now and the Cabinet agrees with what I propose, we can leave it. If the Cabinet of Ministers raises social standards, let's give him that right. But he will not exalt them; he will reduce them in comparison with what is in the law. No one has the right to replace the law, no one. And you and I have no right to change the law until we adopt a new law. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance to vote separately on the amendment in part four of article 27 of the Ukrainian budget. So to rule out this part where it's about whether it's about the right, whether it's the Cabinet of Ministers or the local councils, to make changes to the Social Standards Act. Please support the proposal to exclude part 4 of article 27. Please vote. [[11:32:02]] For 369 Thank you. And now, with this amendment in mind, I am voting on the adoption of proposals for a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget, registration number 6495, with its adoption on second reading and as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[11:32:41.]] For 245 Thank you. We have a new budget code. Let's hope that, given the proposals we've made in the last century, there's also the President's proposals. Let's hope the code is signed. Let's thank both the Ministry of Finance and our profile committee that did, I'm not afraid of that word, the titanium work. Thank you. It's under review. Now, dear fellows! In order to be, as they say, legal cleanness, we shall vote on what I have said. What we've adopted in general right now. But separately we vote for it to be two laws. To be a separate code and separate laws to amend laws in connection with the adoption of a code. Please support this proposal. Please vote. This is stated in the Rules and in the decision of the Constitutional Court, which prohibits laws from amending laws. This should be done by a separate law. [[11:33:53]] For 228 Thank you. Question completed. We're looking at the draft Decision on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Registration number 6677. Please, the head of the Committee of MacKeenko Vladimir, please. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:34:32]] For 207 Supported. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, you have been given a draft decree on the calendar of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, which is proposed to begin the plenary session of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 7, 2010 and to conclude its work on January 14, 2011. During this time, there are 10 weeks for plenary work, 5 weeks for committees, commissions and factions, 4 weeks for the work of national deputies with voters, and 10 hours for questions to the government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the beginning of the session determines the position of the constitution – this is the first Tuesday, in this case this session of September, that is, there are no questions. The other one. As far as I know before considering this question, the profile committee sent proposals to each of the factions, and each of the factions responded, responded, and made comments. They're, like, accounted for here. So we have every reason. Huh? What first week? I'll take a look. The first week, as always, opening up, committee work and so on. As we used to do, we opened a session, we work on committees, and we work in plenary in a week. That's one thing. And the second. You know, it's not dogma, we can make changes to the calendar plan at any time, if we have situations. I am voting on the adoption of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the calendar of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6677]] Please vote. [[11:37:08]] For 340. Thank you. It's been decided. A draft Act on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 6419]] Reports Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich and the Baranov Committee. Can we look at it in a nutshell? I'm making a proposal to review the bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:37:51]] For 234 Yes, please, reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, almost a year ago we adopted the Law, which was called the Programme for the Reform of Housing and Utilities. Today’s bill, it is one of the stages of this reform program, which says that we need to improve the system of state regulation of natural monopolies. The law deals with the need to establish mechanisms for regulating natural monopolies in the person of heat, energy and miscreant. Today, the question of tariff definitions is not clear. Authorizing city councils, they're clearly not prescribed, they're doubling up with the authority of district administrations, and so today it's impossible to tell who's setting the tariffs clearly. In addition, there are a number of areas in Ukraine where district ownership exists. And if the issue of ownership in the Constitution does not exist, and that's why setting tariffs on these businesses is also very controversial, and it's very questionable. The National Commission will not only set the limit, the size, the correct setting of tariffs, but also regulate licensing and the work of natural monopolies, because in the community service market these issues are not identified and need to be sufficiently serious. serious processing. In addition, this law will limit the imposition of the only tariffs throughout the country that will prevent us from having unwarranted losses. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to remind you that 38 million dollars are rotating in this area, and in recent years we have allocated 5.5 billion government grants to this issue. This mechanism, this system will allow us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u64	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u65	This system will allow us to avoid unwarranted subsidies from the state and to establish a clearer monopoly. In addition, today we are transferring a number of local water ducts into the concession. Legally, we've allowed this to happen, and without the government regulator of these processes, these processes are going to go chaotic. Please be supportive. The Ministry and the Committee support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u66	It's from the profile committee. I don't see Baranov, but there's a conclusion on the support committee. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up. Please, Ivan Kirilenko. Bondarenko's word. Please. He's one of the plays of this bill, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u67	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear friends, the bill is designed to bring about a very serious system that is constantly being influenced by both the authorities and the consumers, or all citizens. The problems of regulating utilities, such as water supply, water supply, and hot water supply, have unfortunately been in a hanged state for many years now. If electricity is regulated by the National Commission on Power, these monopolies remain unregulated. And then a citizen who doesn't have a choice, who only has one cold water pipe in his apartment, one hot water pipe, one sewer, in a situation where he's got local authority that can dictate any conditions, any standards and, again, any amounts paid for these services. So given the importance of this area, you know, there's the President of Ukraine's opinion that we need to create a single organ that works in this direction. First of all, it will have to be done here, not a question, there, some others, except to set standards of service, which is “hot water”. To make everyone understand that 45 degrees isn't hot water. What is the quantity of these services today? He's not set up today. A person pays according to the calculation scheme without actually using that amount of service. So this is a huge number of questions: what are the prices, what are the self-values used in setting tariffs? It's coming out of the ceiling today, and it's being installed. This is done in many cities in Ukraine. For example, in Kiev so far, there's no thermal work schedule for heat supply networks -- and we don't know: at a temperature of minus 20 on the street, what temperature should be in the apartment and all that. Please support this, very important, law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, today with a visit to Ukraine, there is the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Finland, Alexander Stubb. He is now in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome a minister who is very friendly with Ukraine and who supports Ukraine in all its internal and external political aspirations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u69	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Your Honor, Your Honor, Minister, Your Honor! I'd like to start by quoting one phrase, more specifically, one paragraph from the Explanatory Note to this bill. “The focus in Ukraine does not contribute to the balance of society’s interests, undermines consumers of municipal services and reduces the competitiveness of enterprises, does not ensure the effectiveness of natural monopolies and the development of competition in markets adjacent to natural monopolies.” If you take this as a basis, if you take this as a motivation for adopting this bill, it's 100% valid. Everyone can confirm that this is true. All people can say that there is virtually no competition in the provision of utilities in Ukraine. There's no competition, there's no momentum, there's no motivation, there's no incentive to reduce cost, even when it can be done, even if it doesn't do much damage to profits. And that's why the adoption of this bill doesn't seem to be even smooth, but it has to create direct rules for competition in the area of utilities and correspondingly lower self-sustainment. In any case, logic leads to this. The only thing I have to pay attention to is the conclusion of scientific expertise. It's negative. But I don't want to talk about the final conclusion about non-acceptance. But there is the right position, and I think the subjects of the legislative initiative had to agree. Now in fact, says science and expertise, the subject of regulation will be regulated by two bodies: the National Commission for the Regulation of the Communal Services Market and the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory of Ukraine. The law should specify the scope of responsibility, otherwise it would be another problem. There's no need for competition here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u71	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u72	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a twofold impression of reading this bill. On the one hand, I support him in the first reading. On the other hand, I would like to warn us that we are adopting similar laws. What's the plan? In the sense that we're moving away from codifying legislation, we're just moving away at a crazy rate. We've already seen today how we changed the budget code, with which Adam Ivanovich, you greeted us today, obviously as the entire nation did yesterday, the coalition was happy and the changes to the judiciary, more loyal to the destruction of the judiciary, the independent court. And that's exactly what we've done, and that's exactly how we have to do the codes, the codes, where we can totally reconcile the tens, the hundreds of legislative acts that work in this area. I agree with my colleague Zarubinski, who has determined that there will be competition between the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market and the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity. I also agree with the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which, in 1999, in its decision 2PP 99 of March 2, stated that it was not the competence of the Supreme Council to create such a commission. But I see that the situation needs to be improved, obviously the way out is one, to accept this document now in the first reading and to force the government to make sure that there is probably one serious body that regulates the Ukrainian utility market.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, I'm voting on adoption as a basis, in the first reading of the draft Law on the National Market Regulation Commission, the utility of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6419]] [[11:49:03]] For 313 Copy that. Please, the committee, work on adopting it as a law, at least at the beginning of the next session. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we are currently being asked questions about the Presidential bill on the activities of the National Bank, because the President’s representative has been identified by the reporter, unfortunately, is in the hospital. Then, with your permission, let's go to the next bill, namely the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2010" and "On the mandatory State Pension Insurance". Governmental, not urgent. Bill number 6673. Reported by Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksiyovich. Please. They haven't taken it yet. Excuse me, Feder Alexiovich. According to a bill related to amendments to the National Bank Act, we had to postpone until we knew who would report it. Today, we will definitely consider it. Feder Alexiyovich, we can take a brief look. I am voting on a motion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. The point is, there are no articles. [[11:50:39]] For 205 Copy that. Please, Feder Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives, I present to you the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On the State Budget of Ukraine 2010" and "On the mandatory State Pension Insurance", which is a necessary step to restore cooperation with the IMF. The negotiations with the International Monetary Fund mission have been successfully completed and the mission will recommend a higher management of the International Monetary Fund to make a deal with Ukraine for the next 2.5 years, with Ukraine supporting the amount of 10 billion SDRs, that is about $14.9 billion. I have to say that the external background for negotiations with the IMF was the pessimistic estimates of the world economy coming almost every day. The volatile situation in international capital markets is due to the fact that the normal economies of countries such as the United States and Europe have not yet been fully restored have led to the increase of external borrowings for developing countries, including Ukraine. Financial market turbulence and a climate of uncertainty make countries, particularly the European Union, see the main task of fiscal policy in developing the economy, first of all making efforts to reduce budget deficits. The main directions for reducing the budget deficit are, first of all, spending cuts. Secondly, it's an increase in the fiscal component, it's an increase in taxes, a cancellation or a freeze on taxes and social benefits. Against the background of these trends, Ukraine has set the goal of restoring cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, increasing social growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u75	Finish up, Feder Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u76	Under the terms of this agreement, we have to take the following steps: reduce the revenue -- by 13 billion, strengthen the income distribution of the special state fund -- by 3.7 billion, reduce the privatisation revenue by 3.6 billion, reduce the expenditure of the state budget by 17 billion. In the area of pension insurance, such measures should be implemented: this is a provision for individuals of the simplified taxation system, the size of insurance contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which corresponds to the minimum wage. In the IMF negotiations, in addition to obtaining funds, we have reached such conditions that the full preservation of the social standards provided for by the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of a subsistence minimum and the President's Decree on Immediate Measures to Eliminate Poverty will ensure that social standards are further raised at least by the inflation index, which will prevent the level of social protection of citizens from falling. Measures in the area of pension insurance will in no way touch socially vulnerable categories of citizens. So today we're going to be offered to make an agreement with the IMF on favourable terms for Ukraine, next to getting cheap money, we're going to improve our reputation in the external markets of capital. Moreover, the Ukrainian delegation will be accompanied by a representative of the International Monetary Fund, which is an unprecedented level of cooperation with the fund in all of Ukraine's history. The IMF cooperation programme will allow us to implement the package of measures and economic reforms in the administration. In the economic spheres. And I ask you to support the draft Ukrainian Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Budget for 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u77	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, the head of the Committee of Mikola Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. At its meeting today, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered a draft law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010 and a mandatory government pension policy under number 6673. The bill is designed to reduce budget deficits and meet the requirements of the memorandum of economic and financial policy between the Government of Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. The project proposes to reduce the forecast of government property revenues by 3.6 billion dollars, which reduces the government budget deficit by almost 5 percent of GDP. In addition, there is a reduction in income, a decrease in government spending by 13.4 billion. That's right. The proposed bill is balanced with regard to budgetary indicators. On the basis of the draft bill, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 6673 would be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Sit down, Mikola Ivanovich. Please sign up, two for, two against. From one faction is recorded either “for”, or “against”, that is, the computer works – only one will be recorded, either “against” or “for”. So don’t be surprised that there are no buttons. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, I think Minister of Finance Fedor Jaroshenko has outlined the substance of the bill quite thoroughly. It aims to reduce the budget deficit. This clearly explains the cost reduction possibilities that will allow for a balanced budget. The Party of the Regions proposes to support the position of the Ministry of Finance and to vote positively for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u81	Yes, please, Baby. Easy two minutes, BUT faction. Prepare Donya.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u82	Oleg Laszko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of "The Fatherland". The bill proposed by the government proposes to reduce not the primary costs but not the priority costs. This is the signature of Fedor Jaroshenko, Minister of Finance. Feder Alexiyovich, you tell the MPs and the whole country that you're cutting down not the primary costs, not the priority costs. Let's see what expenses the Minister of Finance and the government considers not to be a priority and not a priority? 2 billion -- reducing costs for repair and maintenance of roads, 1.5 billion -- reducing subsidies per cow, 2 billion -- reducing spending on agri-industrial financing, 500 million -- reducing spending on economic support: aviation, industry and so on, 3 billion dollars -- reducing spending on coal, including implementing projects to improve mine safety. These are not the priorities of government spending. 800 million reductions in state support for innovation and investment projects in the real economy. What the government told us was going to invest the economy. That's how they invest. A billion reductions in housing costs for citizens, including military personnel. Where is the promised dwelling for the people! For the poor! For the Chernobyls! For the military! He's gone and he won't be here this year. 600 million reductions in the Ukraine Drinking Water programme. There's no water in the area. There are no new wells, polluted water. The government, at the expense of the people, reduces these costs by means of clean water. So this is actually about the budget sequester. The government acknowledged its inability and inability to implement the budget either on income or on expenditure. So we need to ask the question of resigning the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes before the issue is concluded. We'll finish before we finish 15. Donny's passing on to Liapinius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u84	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, there is a State Budget Sequester. It's going through a reduced procedure. We saw a bill about this sequencer last night. We didn’t see it, and he showed up last night, and this morning we saw him. We cannot give a thorough analysis today, and the government cannot give us a detailed analysis of the consequences of reducing the costly articles that we are talking about. My colleague Lazko has already made a significant point. I'll add. All of a sudden, the most unpriorityed spending in Ukraine was defense spending -- minus 2 billion. Suddenly, Ukraine’s most unpriorityed expenditure was the cost of supporting the Ukrainian language. There were 22 million, so 11 million of them are taken off. Why do we need the English language, says the Ukrainian government. And so on. I am not talking about drinking water, which is, in fact, the biggest problem in Ukraine today and is being talked about by public associations to all of us. They keep saying we're reducing the cost of this program. We should accept that the government realized that it would not receive the income he had drawn two months ago. And it reduces by 10 billion dollars, it reduces the VAT revenue. That's smart, because he won't get that money. But please tell me why in this case only small private entrepreneurs have to pay more? Everyone else is less, everyone else understands that we're canceling out. And I want to tell private entrepreneurs, our distinguished audiences and audiences that the trouble came from where they didn't expect it. The tax code has been rejected, actually sent long into the box, and here this law has set a standard that requires the same 350 dollars that were demanded last year and reflected by today's coalition. But today. Then they were opposition and they were fighting against this norm, today the coalition is introducing this norm. They make extra taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u85	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u86	Please see the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which makes a minimum contribution of 350 dollars. That's the tax. I want to tell you: last year we lost almost half a million entrepreneurs, this year we're going to lose even more. No taxes, no pension funds, no jobs. What are you doing with the country? Stop! And finally I want to say, we have a reference to this law, and you have no right to adopt it in second reading and in general. It's totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you can shout even louder, that's your right. Scream, scream. Once again, as if it were over a hundred articles, we wouldn't have had the right to make procedural decisions with you on a simplified procedure. It's not about money, it's about the rule of law. That's the first one. The other one. It's not true that this is the first time in the history of secesters. This may be the first time that a colleague has done this. But there have been such incidents. Third. Third. The joy of, I think, the joy of doing so is that we have no one. Not in the Cabinet of Ministers that introduced this bill, nor do we have any of you to support this bill. Because I'd always rather not take it away than give it away. It's clearly better this way. But there are realities to life. I am voting on the adoption of Act 6673 amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010 and on the mandatory State Pension Insurance. Please vote. Adoption of the law. Please vote. [[12:04:59]] For 213 The factions, please. Region Party – 168, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 12, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 9, communists – 1, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 4. Please, one minute from the factions. Yes, please, Klimec. Kenzier, please. Kendeur's gone. Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u88	Please, I beg the word of Xenia Lapinius. I beg your pardon, Xenia Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u89	Lipenia, please. It's just that Arjevitin's got you covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u90	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! I really want to thank for the first time in my life the Communists who actually did the right thing without voting for this law. And I mean, dear colleagues! Do not expect the poor to create a budget for the rich. This is unfair and unfair. And that's not a liberal approach. You don't have to put liberalism in the mud by such laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u91	Unguran. I don't see Ungurian. Please, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u92	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u93	Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u94	Oleg Ljasko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party of “The Fatherland”. Let the results of this vote be a science for the government, for the Ministry of Finance. You can't have such serious bills that affect the lives of millions of citizens, and you can't take them out of a shoelace like you, using your majority, on the committee, you've done the same thing you've planned to do in the Supreme Council. Because it's about social protection of citizens, it's about supporting an agro-industrial complex, it's about the road sector, it's about the army, it's about defense, it's about tax legislation, it's about increasing taxes on millions of small businesses. And you're trying to do this right over here by covering up that you want to get a loan from the IMF. Why didn't you cut expenses for the President's Secretariat, which you didn't cut for the Cabinet of Ministers, for the Supreme Council? No, look at the budget. They cut it down, but they took it under the Cabinet of Ministers. So they actually changed the money manager. And actually, they didn't cut the cost to the camera. And they'll be hand-in-hand dividing in the Ministry of Finance and in the Cabinet of Ministers. Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u95	Please don't have any suggestions. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u96	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, the Company faction has always, in opposition, been in the coalition and wherever it is, defended the interests of the most disadvantaged groups. There's a lot of issues in this document that we can't agree with at all. First. Year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. A program to provide cars for war invalids is being abolished. The other one. For the first time, I've talked several times about the fact that for the first time in post - Soviet times, the program is being eliminated. The grant of the Pension Fund is cut by 3 billion. Whoever it is in the coalition we are or beyond it, but such decisions will not be supported by the faction of the Company of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u97	Dry, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the reduction of the government budget deficit, well, I'm addressing people who think economic categories, there's no doubt that there's a need. Reducing the government budget deficit, a problem that all countries in Europe are dealing with. You can see that an extensive government budget, uncoordinated, uncorrected, can lead to extremely difficult social consequences. Demagogism and Pharisee are totally incompatible here. It's the path to nowhere that will lead us to the need to deal with the budget sooner or later. I'd understand your hi-hi-hi and ha-ha-ha stupid if you offered something here. You're not suggesting anything. You don't want to offer anything. Consider the bitter example of Greece. What other examples do you have? This happened objectively. We're looking at your clots. You can't help. Stand down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u99	Yes, dear colleagues, factions have been exchanged. The faction led to the performance of Leipzig. Dear colleagues, I announce a break of 30 minutes, up to 12 hours 40 minutes. I ask the factions to consult on the solution to the issue of what we have just considered. A break is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we're starting our work. One minute, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u101	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! I blocked this rostrum on that basis. [[th m in s a l i]] On that basis, – I explain – contrary to the Rules of the Supreme Council, contrary to the Constitution is now put to the vote to amend the Law on the State Budget, where: About the so-called secester, ignoring the MP's will. That is, the MP has no right to amend. And I want to tell you what it is. We're just eliminating the provision of disabled people, disabled people with automobiles, we're eliminating the acquisition of housing for the blind, disabled and deaf, we're eliminating the budget programme of the Minregionbud “The housing of the disabled 1 group of the Great War”, Vladimir Mikhailovich, while you were gone and while there was a minister from Finland, the government wanted to do so. We're destroying it. They want to destroy the completion of the reconstruction of the Ukrainian National Centre for War Veterans. The government is getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u103	I'm done. The government reduces prosthetic and medical rehabilitation, prosthetics, think about it! - for 520,000 dollars. On account of who you want to celebrate your birthday in Crimea! Who is responsible for holding the summit? I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm calling it in. Well, Yuri Anatolyovich, well, time's up, please. The Supreme Council will make a decision, that's all. I'm calling it in. Well, I'm going to announce another. Dear colleagues, when we voted on the question, when we started this session and voted on two issues at the same time on the basis and in general, there were no problems. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the first deputy was in charge. He'll come and we'll find out what's going on. Please! Dear colleagues, come on, please! Please! Well, let's stick to the construct. Well, let's stick to the construct. Please, sit down! I have announced a review of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please sit down! Dear colleagues, please sit down! The rapporteur is the deputy head of the National Bank, Krotuk Vladimir Leonidovich. Correspondent is Secretary of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Poloneyev Yuri Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:43:15.]] For-187 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine is prepared to bring its activities into line with international standards of operation of central banks and in line with the proposals of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to increase the autonomy of the National Bank of Ukraine to ensure that it effectively fulfils its constitutional function while increasing the responsibility of its leaders and ensuring transparency in its activities. In particular, the bill provides for a clear prioritization of the central bank’s primary function. In particular, it is envisaged that the National Bank's main function of ensuring the stability of the national currency should be based on the priority of ensuring price stability in the state. The requirements for members of the Board of the National Bank have been developed to ensure the political non-involvement of that body, to increase its professionalism and responsibility for the decision taken. Persons who have a representative mandate or who hold managerial positions in political parties cannot be members of the Board of the National Bank. In order not to allow conflicts of interest to take part in the National Bank's board, it will also be possible for persons who hold management positions in legal persons with a view to obtaining profits or directly or indirectly own any number of shares of the bank. The bill provides that the basic principles of monetary policy approved by the Board of the National Bank should be based on the macroeconomic indicators calculated by the Government and determine the medium-term tasks of the National Bank. The bill also establishes requirements for candidates for the headship of the National Bank and members of the government. These requirements are largely similar to those of the board members.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u107	The term of office of the Head of the National Bank has been increased to 7 years in order to avoid a coincidence with the election of the President and the Supreme Council. We believe that the adoption of the bill will allow for the creation of a legal field necessary to significantly improve the effective and monetary policy of the National Bank. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Yuri Poluniev, Secretary of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u109	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The aim of the bill proposed by the President of Ukraine is to strengthen it. The ability of the National Bank of Ukraine to ensure that it effectively fulfils its main constitutional function at the same time as increasing responsibility for the management of the National Bank, the National Bank Board and ensuring transparency in its activities. The bill, inter alia, provides for a clear prioritization of the central bank's primary function. This is primarily, with the stability of the national currency, ensuring price stability in the state. If this does not prevent price stability, the National Bank contributes to the stability of the banking system and the National Bank also contributes to sustained economic growth and sustains the government's economic policy if this does not prevent the two goals from being achieved. There are new requirements for candidates from the National Bank Board who are formulated to ensure the political non-involvement of this body, to increase its professionalism and responsibility for the decisions taken. The bill aims to strengthen the Council as an influential, advisory, monitoring body and to remove operational decisions and to intervene in the operational activities of the National Bank. It is suggested that the basic principles of monetary policy, which the Council approves, should be based on macroeconomic indicators calculated by the government and determine the medium-term tasks of the National Bank. The qualifications for headship of the National Bank of Ukraine and members of the government are also strengthened. The term of headship has been increased to seven years to avoid colliding with the election cycle and the election to the Supreme Council. The basis for a long - term termination is also reduced, but it is anticipated that this is possible in the event of a loss of an integrity of business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u111	Other Important novelties are also the regulation of the clear order of distribution of income to the National Bank, which makes it impossible to use advance payments to the budget, which is actually a money issue. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt, as a basis, a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. The conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration is also to be taken as a basis for taking into account the comments made. Please support the people's deputies in adopting this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there is another bill by Yuri Karmazin, Alexander Steshenko, Yuri Prokopczuk, this is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, I ask that I report to this bill, Yuri Carmazin, in order to maintain regular purity. We technically missed it, but this bill is and the committee has been looking at it, making a negative decision, but we haven't taken it up. Since we're considering this bill, I suggest we listen to the argument and continue to define it by voting. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to take my speech into account. I stress that Bill No. 4787-1, introduced by People's Deputies Steschenk, Prokopczuk and Karmazin, was introduced on 17 July 2009. So a year ago, that bill that is now being passed on behalf of President Yanukovic is an alternative to our bill. That's the first one. I'd like to make it clear, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And on the basis of the Rules, I protested to you and sent it out that, according to part three of article 100 of the Supreme Council Rules, such a project should not be registered at all right now. Now, as for what we can do to the President, let it be, I don't insist on taking off his project, let it be my humble gift to Victor Yanukovich before his birthday. But, honourable national MPs, we propose to introduce a new concept of “Creditor of the National Bank”. These are international financial organizations, central banks of foreign states and other creditors from which Natzbank engages in loans, including in the form of monetary funds. We propose to make the maximum total number of Nazbank employees 1,500; we propose to change the authority of the National Bank Board by giving it more authority, and we also propose that the same firm should not have the right to audit the annual financial statements of the National Bank for more than two years in a row; we propose that the activities of the National Bank be transparent so that this report is published and on the official website of the National Bank; we propose new changes and approaches to a number of articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u114	Finish up, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u115	I'm done, thank you. We propose that the decisions of the Board of the National Bank to which the griffins of the banking secret “service secret” may not include restrictions on the constitutional rights of citizens. I remind you, honourable national MPs, that you and I didn't issue the National Bank documents when that collapse occurred, and the IMF gave it to the foreigners. That's how we have a "state" approach in our paws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u116	Thank you. Finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u117	Our project is complex, it's designed to protect citizens' interests, so that what we have now is not allowed, we've changed the terms and conditions of the refinancing and so on. And I would like to ask for a more serious attitude towards registration, including if it says "President of Ukraine". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u118	Thank you. I draw the secretariat's attention to the need for a detailed study of the existing database of bills when new ones arrive so that we don't have any collisions. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Please sign up. Please put your names on the board. People's deputy Corge has the right to speak to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u119	Thank you, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u120	Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u121	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of "The Fatherland". I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies and the public and, above all, the faction of Communists as an integral part of the parliamentary coalition that this law performs a single function is to meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund in order to obtain the credit that the government is now negotiating. The International Monetary Fund takes advantage of every opportunity to establish in its dependent states further dependence and control over the interests of the world’s financial capital manager. This is the main function of this law. What do we see? By the way, I'd like to say that we don't mind taking a loan from the International Monetary Fund. But not by the interests of the state, the strategic state, the security of the state. In this case, we have the National Bank under existing legislation, it's the world's most independent bank. The Bank of Great Britain is subordinated to the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of France is subordinated to their government, the Bank of Russia is also accountable to the Central Duma, one bank is independent, so it can take down the bracelet, make billions of dollars, and millions of people are impoverished. Thus, the head of the National Bank of Stemach, in which the term of office expired last December, continues to hold office to this day. All because the bank and the government are not accountable to anyone and are not responsible for anything. And notice, even in this bill passed by the President, the term of office of the head of the National Bank continues until 7 years. Next. The proposed bill reduces the share of profits to be recalculated by the National Bank to the budget, outlines even the theoretical possibility of auditing its activities by Parliament, consolidating this function by unknown private companies, which the National Bank of Ukraine itself chooses. In fact, the powers of the National Bank are being eliminated, and the powers of the National Bank are being reduced as a result of increased powers of government of the National Bank. There is no telling how the issue of our country’s gold reserves is regulated. The National Bank says there's nothing wrong with reserves and they're out there. But there's actually a big question, is it really normal with these reserves and the mystery of this, the information about this is classified and is not available to Parliament. I think it's been a while since the Supreme Council, as the country's only legislative body, was just supposed to watch what the National Bank is doing. Because the National Bank, through monetary and exchange-rate policy, can knock down the bracelet, which makes people impoverished and others rich, and the government and the Supreme Council are responsible. So if we are responsible, the National Bank should be accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in addition, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have registered, as the author of the law, a bill on the first priority measures of the National Bank's monetary policy to restore economic growth in the country where I propose to set the National Bank's account rate of 3 percent of the year. Today this account rate is 10 percent. As a result, refinance banks are under 20 percent to 17 percent. And loans to the company's economy are under 25 percent. And then we wonder why we don't have an economy growing, why people don't have wages rising, why people don't get rich? But because the economy has no loans, it's because of the policies of the destructive National Bank of Ukraine. All over the world, central banks account for 0-1 percent of the money to use loans to raise production. We have the National Bank planned to make 16 billion dollars in 2011, instead of going into the economy. So today, the National Bank is actually a loan office that makes millions of Ukrainian citizens' money on the basis of the destruction of the Ukrainian economy. Not the government, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u123	And not the government, not President Janukovic will never execute their economic growth programme in the country until the National Bank does what it continues to do today, and will not be subject to Parliament, government and the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u124	Thank you. With regard to the bill, which is drafted by Oleg Lazko, I would like to see the issue under discussion on the agenda for the following Wednesday. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u125	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I will personally support this bill. Because this bill was first introduced by the President, and we need to support his initiative, and secondly, this is the first step towards order in the National Bank. I'm here with the previous speaker to some extent agreeing that the National Bank is part of our society and it's part of our economy. It can't be autonomous: I want to do it -- I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and I want to do it, and you know, and you know, we've voted several times over and over and over and over and over And I think the policy of the National Bank should be focused on national interests. And the fact that the National Bank is funding private banks by giving them credits, and these private banks in Ukraine's economies are giving them no credit at all, but they're giving them a very commercial interest on credit resources, that's not allowing them to develop the economy. I think our President will soon put order in order, including in the National Bank, including monetary policy, the policies of the state. Because the economy can't develop further when commercial banks are profiting from the economy, economic growth of Ukraine and, in the meantime, declining the pace of development, giving below 30 percent and sometimes more of business, you realize that at this rate, economic growth cannot be satisfied today. As far as I'm concerned, it's about personnel issues. Of course, the National Bank should have qualified people who work, indeed, for the interests of Ukraine and provide, ensure the interests of Ukraine. And I'm paying attention to that -- that's when they knocked down the bracelet, when they blocked, in fact, the opportunity for citizens to use their savings that were in commercial banks on deposits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u127	In doing so, hundreds and hundreds of people were robbed. It's not our authority, it's not today's president, it's over. And she gave opportunities. The very responsibility is that Yushchenko was responsible for this question when about 200 billion people who had earned and trusted banks were, in fact, robbed or undervalued. So I ask you to support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u128	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzhewine, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u129	Unfortunately, I didn't know when our committee was going through, I wasn't notified, and as the first deputy didn't take part in this bill. That's the first one. Secondly, Your Honor, it's probably the only time I won't support this bill, because if I had the possibility, I would have put those positions in place. But in this bill, I understand, the National Bank took advantage of the fact that there is an International Monetary Fund and laid down these requirements, but we lost people here, we lost people's protection. And we agreed that we're in the National Bank Act to provide for a recalculation of funds into the Population Investment Guarantee Fund. 10 billion are well divided: 50 percent of the Nazbanka reserve, 50 percent of the Cabinet of Ministers. But we said that 20 percent would go to the Population Guarantee Fund. It's not here. One of the functions of the National Bank was to clearly write down “the stability of the banking system”. It is now written that it will maintain the stability of the banking system, depending on the execution of various items. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you not to support such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I will put to the vote the first bill of Yuri Karmazin, the second bill will be put to a vote of 6659, the Presidential bill. [[4787-1]] So please listen carefully to the vote announcement. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. [[13:03:16]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please vote. Here comes the vote, my dear fellows. [[13:03:49]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Well, I'm not saying you don't mind. There is an offer that will appease you all, dear fellows! I'll take it. Determine the final adoption of this decision by the end of this session. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. We'll finish the session, maybe two weeks from now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u131	It does not comply with the Rules, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u132	Do you know how much work we're going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u133	I don't think you know, Vladimir Mikhailovich. [[13:04:33]] For 247 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you. In view of the fact that the minister of foreign affairs who is present today is associating with the minister of foreign affairs in Finland, he needs to be on the move. We ask that we now consider the issue of ratification. Is there any objection to putting this document to the vote? I am voting on the proposal, the proposal, thank you for your support, for the approval of the Ukrainian law, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian State Border. Please vote. Registration number 0174. [[13:05:41]] For 347 Thank you, dear colleagues, for demonstrating such solidarity and adopting this law on ratification. That's how we voted. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there is no motive. Dear colleagues, well, we're in the middle of a discussion. Well, thank you so much for Oleg Lako tells us all that this is a historic event. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On State Procurement" and "On Organizing and Conducting the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine". [[on ensuring implementation and preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:06:59]] For 215 Decision Adopted The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u135	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, preparation and conduct at the proper level of the final part of the European Championship in 2012 football is one of the strategic tasks of our state, which will not only be important for the creation of a positive image of Ukraine in the world, but will give a powerful impetus to its further socio-economic development. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2009, from the State budget of Ukraine, it was planned to fund the preparation and implementation of Euro-2012 worth 5 billion 613 million dollars. In fact, 5 billion 118 million were funded, which is about 55 percent. As a result, there has been a significant backlog from the work schedule on the subjects used for the championship and the inability to perform fully and within the defined warranty periods provided by UEFA. This certainly had a negative impact on the decision and evaluation of the level of preparation for the Euro-2012 by UEFA experts. Given that preparations for the championship are taking place in difficult and critical conditions because much time has been lost, it is now important to demonstrate the significant progress that will primarily be in making up for the loss. The new government is working hard in this direction. According to the latest planned funding of 6.7 billion for 2010, about 3 billion, or almost half of the planned one, have already been funded. Preparation rates are not allowed to stop. As part of the preparations for the championship, it is important to have a procedure for purchasing goods, jobs, and services related to the preparation of infrastructure that needs immediate improvement. Ukraine's Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Laws on State Procurement and on the Organization and Implementation of the Final Part.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u136	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u137	The bill was adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council's Personal Committee. Taking into account the importance of this law, I ask the honourable national deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u138	From the committee, please, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u139	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! The Committee reviewed the bill and recommends that it be adopted by the Supreme Council. I would like to highlight the comments of the expert management separately. The first point is that the law does not specify the full, exhaustive list of goods, works and services to be purchased by the national agency for these works. Well, you know, it's impossible to make such a complete exhaustive list in the law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a national agency specifically set up for this event. And under the national agency regulation approved on 7 April 2010, it has the right to control all these purchases and each seller. This is also provided for in the law. The second observation of the Chief Executive is that no restrictions are imposed on the sellers themselves. But once again, it's easy to control through a national agency. There is one point that I think is significant, the General Expert Office. It refers to the fact that the law did not take into account article 39 of the State Buyers Act, part two, which provides for a complete exclusive list of cases where purchases are made by one buyer. I think if we put that phrase into this law right now. such an addition as to make further amendments to the list provided for in article 39 and to write “and in other cases provided for in the laws of Ukraine”, this law would settle all of this. That is why I recommend it to the Committee itself. I urge you to accept it as a whole so that we do not stop the preparatory work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u140	Finish up, please. You all have it, don't you? Dear colleagues, perhaps. Please sign in. Well, we have to make a decision, you know. Please sign up for the discussion. Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone. Then Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u141	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On the edge of the country's prestige. We have indeed missed a lot of time in preparation for the Euro-12. And the hardest thing to do is to make up for that time. Time has been lost in both the construction plan and the preparation of appropriate infrastructure around stadiums, tourist centres, oil complexes and others. It's been a long time. As the chess players say, we already have time on the flag, and we must accept a decent football team from the world championship, which ends today, and tomorrow and beyond, the centre will be transferred to Ukraine, and we must move beyond this world championship, which ends in Ukraine, to show the face of Ukraine and thus strengthen the country's international image even more. Hundreds of tourists, thousands of tourists will be here. We must prepare ourselves for this, but unfortunately, certain legislative nuances do not allow us to enter the full schedule of preparations for the Euro-2012. Therefore, the greatest request is that: let us vote today and on first reading, and in general, to allow for the rapid, dignified completion of the final preparations for Euro-2012 in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u142	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u143	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Fathership”. Dear fellow countrymen, honourable deputies, we understand: we really need to take steps, speed up preparations for the Euro-2012, but not so boldly breaking legislation, basic norms. Well, how can billions of dollars be spent without a tender, with one participant? So say your last name right now, call the bank accounts where these state funds are going to be counted. And I want to point out that, for example, in South Africa, where the world football championship is currently being held, 1.2 billion euros were spent on all 10 stadiums. How much do we have for stadiums? Indeed, after the change of the general contractor, the cost of the stadium’s construction did not decrease, which would be logical, but it increased by 300 million! Yes, we determine the purchase of the same buses from the same manufacturer who was previously in international search, and so on, the owner of this factory. So think what you're doing. We're saying we're going to fight corruption and we're going to promote corruption by adopting these laws on public procurement actually without a tender, under a predetermined manufacturer, and we understand who, and close to what party? Thank you for your attention. I don't think we can adopt this law in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin is giving the speech to Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u145	Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you of a little bit of the history of solicitation and this law. Do you remember how fierce the criticism of the previous government was when the Ministry of Economics conducted most tenders with one participant? This was the main reason for the commission to be set up, the Court of Auditors reports, scandals -- and finally the adoption of a law that was adopted through the President's veto. After the adoption of the law, it turns out that the competition with one participant is justified because we have a critical situation in the Euro, and so we have to do the tenders. But there's one nuance. Which is not clearly defined, and this has been said by the scientific and expert administration, which goods, services are subject to this law and how to prove that this applies to the Euro-2012. I can tell from my own experience, I've been in control of solicitation activities for many years, that everything that happens to purchases in Ukraine can be brought under this law. No one can prove it, whether it's Euro-2012 or not. So the coalition, by adopting the law of hurrah, taking into account the proposals of the President and the government, and signed, is now effectively cancelling it. Because in this scheme you can do anything with one participant. Next. You know, the prices of Euro prep already go down. They will never be reduced if there is no competition in these procedures for purchasing goods, services. So a meaningful coalition makes these prices go up and down. And no one is going to be able to control this process, and I'm going to influence it and somehow lower prices. Because all control and execution functions are concentrated in one hand. I want to warn you that you are taking a very dangerous step towards further repealing all these decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, not for reasons, but a faction is entitled to one act. Please, one minute Jaroslav Suhi. Let's do it. Oh, I remember. I'm sorry, I already announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I thank all those who closely monitor my political, social and civic activities. This shows that you are neither lost nor cared for. Thank you. But keep your thoughts to yourself, I'll do without them. I mean, maybe a little dissonance about what's going on here. The use of public purchases under the procurement procedure of one or perhaps will request preparations for the Euro-2012. But I want to draw your attention to the following, where the mechanism for monitoring the implementation of this bill, who will tell me where the guarantee is that new lamps or upgraded stadiums will be purchased at new stadiums? For example, at the Ternopil Fire Company, which is now persistently rising from its knees. Where the guarantee that the cement will be purchased Ukrainian and metal constructions will be purchased in Ukraine, Ukraine. Because I want to remind you, they used to build a stadium in Zaporozhye, a metal construction site in Italy. So this law, if there's no control mechanism, will lead to new scandals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u148	Sergey Sobolev and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u149	Sobolev, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", party "Reforms and Orders". Dear colleagues! Our parliamentary colleague, Mr. Pavlovski, announced the total expenditure of South Africa for the construction of 10 stadiums -- 1.2 billion euros. We are already used to build two more stadiums than they have built ten stadiums. The second figure officially announced by the South African government, the entire champion of the world, I emphasize, not Europe, but the world of football was costing South Africa 3.5 billion euros. Count how much money they earn in the European Championship equipment, those who insist that no tenders were made by one buyer. That's why we insist that this law be worked out, that there be a clear list, and that there are procedures for control, and we cannot vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u150	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! There are arguments that are usually serious about dangers and threats, although I think that we are not in a simple situation here, because there may be a situation that all the problems that arise from the Euro will now be linked to the fact that Parliament does not want to help and do anything. I would advise you to go another way that we should take over the exercise of parliamentary control. And let's say we add paragraph 7 here and say that a government or a specially authorized body will inform once every six months or at least once every six months the Supreme Council on the implementation, on the implementation of the bill in part of the tender. We realize that this is about tens or hundreds of billions of dollars. If this information in the Supreme Council is every six months, it means that we control it, we understand what these costs are going to cost. Whether the Vice-Prime Minister will report or who, as an authorized person, I would add paragraph seven to “The obligation of annual information in the Supreme Council of Ukraine” in relation to these purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I think it's worth supporting this proposal. Write one point that once every six months the government will report on the progress of implementation of this law and taking into account this addition. Dear colleagues, enough, they're on their way. And in view of this addition, I am voting on a proposal by the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on State procurement and on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine to ensure the implementation and preparations of the 2012 European Finals Championship in Ukraine. To accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Please vote. [[13:22:57]] For 255 The law was passed with the amendment of Mikli Tomenka. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to reduce the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis on the domestic oil and chemical sector. [[Registration number 4522]] Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National MP Sandler Dmitry, co-rapporteur of the Committee, Sergei Terjohin. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:23:45]] For 221 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to reduce the negative impact of the global financial economic crisis on the country's oil and chemical sector, submitted on 17 November 2009 by me and Ukraine's national deputies Jeresh Igor Gennadiyovich, Tkac Roman Volodymyrovich and Fedun Alexi Leonidovich. [[Registration number 4522]] Why have we developed this bill? The point is that following the 1996 Ukrainian Act, “On the rate of excise duty on certain products, the activity of oil companies in Ukraine has become profitable. Since the pyrolysis raw material, or diesel fuel, began to bet direct gasoline on the excise collection and the import duty. In this state of affairs, Ukrainian oil companies were placed in unequal working conditions with their competitors -- similar enterprises in neighbouring and distant countries, where excise and imported duties are not managed. In order to stay in the market and not lose expensive technologies, domestic oil companies were forced to move to a bottom-up scheme where excise and import duties at the time of the customs treatment of diesel and direct petrol were carried out by means of the issuance of a simple ovalized bill when the finished product was exported, outside the customs territory of Ukraine, the bill was extinguished. At the same time, there were no receipts from the Excise Congregation and import duties in the form of direct petrol diesel. And Ukraine's downstream companies bought this product for import, paying for the customs and assemblies to the budgets of the neighbouring states. As a result, the non-productive cost of transportation and customs payments in foreign countries alone increased to 15 percent. Under these conditions, there is now a decline in the country's oil sector and the country's economy's complete dependence on imported products. Emergency measures are needed to deal with a crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u155	That's why we tabled a bill setting zero rates, changes to such laws on excise duty and import duties, and this bill was drafted, comments were made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education. All these remarks are taken into account, the bill is replaced and this is edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u156	Thank you, thank you, sit down. Please, the head of the Committee, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. You don't? Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, Roman Tchac, please. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I just want to say for a few minutes why I also co-authored this bill. As you know, there is one of the most powerful oil companies in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Unfortunately, for many reasons and including the reasons that my colleague Dmitry Mikhailovich was talking about in 2008, this company was stopped, I just want to give you a few figures. When about 600,000 tons of oil was processed in 2007, about 3 million dollars was paid into the budget. Unfortunately, in 2008 the company stopped for many reasons. The big plus is that during this short period of time today there's a very powerful modernization, there's already about 450 million Euros invested, and I think somewhere around this fall this company is going to work, we have a calculation for this company. When we adopt this law, in 2011 alone, the profits in this company will be about 100 million dollars, which is about 25 million dollars, respectively, to be paid into the budget. I know that there are conclusions from the Science and Technology Administration, there are some observations from the Mine Economics, from the Customs Council. We agreed that when we were accepted in the first reading, then we would all take note of them in the second reading. And so, honourable colleagues, I ask now, independently of factions, to support this bill, because it's the price of about 5,000 employees working for this company, as well as the corresponding payments to the budget. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u158	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please turn on the microphone. Then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies and our fellow countrymen, we are witnessing a presentation, well, another lobbying law under the Euro-2012, called “how do we steal state funds from the state budget?” These naphthenic magnets? So, Mr. Firthash, yes, who owns some of the oil combinations, we won't say which ones. I don't think we need to uphold these laws, and I suggest that our faction and other deputies do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u160	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we've just had a lively discussion about the need to reduce the government budget deficit. And it's not about the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. Whoever's doing a little bit of research in the economy knows, the rise in government budget deficits is a real way to make a real default, and to break the financial and budgetary system, that's the first time. It's different. The consequences will be difficult, the consequences will not only be dramatic, but tragic, and in the first for the social sphere. Who does not understand who wants to play with words and show off the great defender of the people’s interests is deeply mistaken, for he is actually making the country a failure. Sooner or later, we will have to correct the government budget deficit. Sooner or later, it's more expensive. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, remember, in Ukraine’s political history, there has never been such a thing that opposition does not become power. Don't make a fool of yourself, it's wrong, it's stupid. What is suggested in this bill? We have to reduce the budget deficit. Well, we're not going to do that if we're responsible politicians. But we're introducing a bill that dramatically reduces excise duties. We don't even know how much the State budget of Ukraine is going to get. A colleague said 5,000 jobs. Beautiful. I'm bringing you back to the idea of Ukrainian Kuwait, bioethanol. You don't need preferences, you don't need benefits. The factories are ready. The factories are equipped, but they don't work. Good will is required. We have both bioethanol and we have biodesisel if we vote for it already in favour of this bill, only in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on reducing the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis on the domestic oil and chemical sector]] [[Registration number 4522]] [[13:32:43]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Law on the Assembly and on the calculation of a single social contribution. [[second reading]] Hara Vasil Georgievovich is head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues for 15 minutes, that is, until 14 hours 15 minutes. And we're working, honorary colleagues, actively. Let's do some repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u163	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! After the first reading of the law, a working group of 27 persons was established to join the trade union, employers, Minfin, Minust, Nazbank, Treasury, State Enterprise, Pension and other social insurance funds. A total of 235 proposals had been received, 131 had been taken into account and 104 had not been taken into account. While those proposals were not taken into account, they were uniform and could be decided by a single vote. Suppose that the 10 proposals of the People's Deputy Shevchuk refer to the same issue: the exclusion of a single contribution from the payers working under civil law treaties. The Committee could not agree to this because very many civil-law treaties were based on the work of individuals. I want to tell you that, under this type of agreement, individuals are paid, and they are paid 3 billion dollars per year to social insurance funds. Today, these persons are paid to the Pension Fund and the Unemployment Fund. This principle is proposed to be retained in the bill. Five proposals were also made to reduce temporary disability days. First of all, this is not the subject of the bill. Secondly, the decision was made in 2005 and it should be remembered that the employer's salary fund had decreased from 4 to 2.5 in this regard. And if we even make that decision, we're going to have to increase the payroll. With regard to the proposals of the People's Deputy, he had submitted 41 of them, they could not be adopted because the ideology of the bill was in conflict with the first reading. The proposal proposes that the collection, control and payment of a single contribution to the public tax authorities be restored. And with regard to the proposals made by the distinguished Yuri Anatolievich Karmazin. They arrived late after a decision had already been taken on the committee. But the working group looked from and behind the brackets at the formal consideration of those proposals. There are comments by the Legal Office and there are proposals, the Committee considers it necessary to agree with the lawyer's proposals regarding the exclusion from section VIII of the “conclusive and transitional provisions” of paragraph 6, the position of the word and the figure from the date of entry into force of the law, the other legal provisions being applied to the part that does not conflict with this law - this sentence should be deleted. And the last. A technical error throughout the law should be excluded when referring to a social insurance fund against temporary workers, and the words “births and”. The birth certificate, you know, we're off the fund. It is implemented by State institutions from the State budget. In general, the law is normal. It can be accepted on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! We're going after the amendments then. Jaroslav Jojik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u165	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, your honor! Ukraine is one of the last cities in the world under business conditions. And it seems that this bill and the previous bill of the Tax Code have provided for a reduction in taxes and a reduction in the number of inspection bodies. Today, from the initiative of Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have seen the inappropriateness of the stated goals and what was in the Tax Code and moved the review of the Tax Code to September of this year. Do you not think that there are many similar rules in this bill similar to the Tax Code? And what, in this case, does it have to be done in a similar way to move it to September this year in order to adopt this bill in sync with the adoption of the Tax Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u166	We cannot accept that view for two reasons. First. Social insurance costs are not tax. It is not part of the State budget. In accordance with the basic law and sectoral laws. And the second. In accordance with the Rules, which we have the law, we cannot change the ideology of the law adopted on first reading. If this is a collection on first reading and it's all on the Pension Fund, here we could not even theoretically accept your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! And perhaps we will accept that offer. Jaroslav Jojik is right, we all do. Now, let's take into account that the committee is being processed, let's put to the vote the draft law as a law. And then when it's done. Just a minute. And after he signs or doesn't sign it, and when we finally get him to the Tax Code, we'll see that we have to get back to normal. We have to move to some extent to this plan. So if you insist, it'll go according to the amendments, and there's no one else. I'm voting on amendment number three, Jaroslav Jojik. You've been speaking, it's not an evening of questions and answers. [[13:39:07]] For-76 I understand you've justified your approach. Now, my dear fellows, your amendment will be seven. Please, Jaroslav Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u168	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, today we are tasking ourselves with reducing taxes and reducing the number of checking structures. Today we are witnessing this, except for the tax administration under this bill and the Pension Fund will have the function of collecting this only social contribution. So there will be representatives of the tax administration and representatives of the Pension Fund. And we know what every queue check is. So there is a slightly different ideology that provides for a fiscal function to be placed on a tax administration that has appropriate experts and a collection of information on payers to be placed on the Pension Fund. That's how we're going to get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u169	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I very much ask you, 41 suggestions on the same subject, we cannot discuss the same 41 times. We have made a decision, so we do not accept all the other proposals. I suggest it's the right thing to do. Second. Dear colleagues, you don't, I don't mean to offend you, you don't think very well in social insurance. Today, the four funds are doing the work you were talking about. It was decided to give one pension fund, with the largest number of insurers and more orderly in the case, one organization instead of four, and a medical fund instead of five. That's the second one. And third. You can't pass on to the tax office what doesn't apply to them. Social insurance contributions, fees are not tax, they are not related to the tax service or to the public budget. For this I ask you not to insist on your mistake in submitting a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u170	I'm voting on amendment number seven, Jaroslav Djojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u171	So we're gonna vote 41 times the same? Your Honor, please withdraw your offer. Well, it's idiotism, 41 votes on the same issue. [[13:41:48]] For-52 Correction not supported. Amendment 8, Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I would like to say and call on my colleague to be correct in relation to what is being proposed by the people's deputies, and I would like to point out that this amendment conceptually reduces the number of testers on a separate enterprise and makes appropriate changes to the authorities of the State Tax Administration. If you really want to reduce the number of test subjects in businesses, you can do that. But today's coalition does not demonstrate the will to reduce the number of test subjects in businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u173	The tax administration has nothing to do with social insurance funds. And he can't be given that function in any way. And that's not gonna happen, you know that. What's the use of time?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u174	I'll bet vote on the 8th amendment. [[13:43:20]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Amendment 9, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u175	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Mr. Reporter, I have made an amendment, which is that this is the identification of the insured person in the system of compulsory state social insurance should not have any signs that indicate even if possible the enterprise that will be involved in the production of these certificates. So what I'm proposing to do is remove all of this: a smart card with visual personalized signs and so on, and so on, because in the past practice of history with the Tender Chamber, there might be a question that's already going to be prescribed in the law for a particular firm to look at this smart card. So I proposed a general formulation that describes the identification of the insured person in the system of compulsory state social insurance as a special document that simply ensures the documentation, storage and use of personal information when this person acquires a right in the field of compulsory public social insurance. And please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u176	The Working Group and the Committee did not support the amendment. Please don't support the hall either.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u177	The vote is now on the 9th amendment. [[13:44:48]] For-40 Correction not supported. 10th. Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u178	Ukrainian People's Party. Your Honor, it is this amendment that removes the contradiction that. The one you're trying to convince us about today. It formulates as follows: the State Tax Service, the system of bodies empowered under the law and the Tax Code – to ensure the collection of insurance contributions, to control the fullness and timeliness of their payments. So this is how we ultimately achieve that the tax administration, tomorrow the Pension Fund, then again tax, is not going to come to the enterprise today, and then again tax, all the more on the powers that under the Tax Code, which is actually being sent back to the government today, and that's why I insist on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u179	The Working Group and the Committee did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u180	I'm betting on the 10th Jaroslav Jojik vote. [[13:46:14]] For-43 Correction not supported. Correction 12, Shevchuk. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Stoyan's accounted for. Shevchuk is rejected. Jaroslav Jojik, 20th and 21st. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u181	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u182	No, you don't? 22nd and 24th, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u183	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u184	25th, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Microphone. And 26th is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u185	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” I'm not in favour of employers taking on police duties, because an employer should not check the presence of an insured person's identification at the time of admission to work. This is a question of the insured person himself. If we hang additional functions for employers, they are not, it will only complicate the single social contribution administration system, and all of this has to do with it. So I suggested in part two of article 6, paragraph 7 delete. And I insist on that because I believe that removing such an item will help simplify the system and get a job, make it easier for employers to get a job. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u186	The Working Group and the Committee did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u187	I'll bet on the 25th amendment. [[13:47:56]] For-31 Correction not supported. Next amendment, 26th. Do you insist, Viacheslav Anatolyevich? 26th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u188	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Well, this amendment is about what the previous one is about freeing employers from their unnecessary and unfunctioning functions. The employer should not check whether there is any information available about the employee in the State Register of National Compulsory Social Insurance, since this is the case with the authority that runs the register. And each individual should take care of the way he does the law. The employer can help social insurance authorities and insurance funds, but this cannot be his responsibility. And that's why I'm proposing in this amendment that we simplify the life of the employer and that it's not his job to take away the employers. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u189	I'll bet on the vote 26 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u190	Employers in the working group and the Committee did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u191	I'll bet on the vote 26 of the amendment. [[13:49:13]] For-32 Correction not supported. Jaroslav Jojik, 28. Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u192	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, today we are witnessing how the ruling coalition in reality is moving away from those pre-election promises made by President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine, particularly from the stated goals of reducing taxes and reducing the number of examiners. Once again, my point is that our proposal is conceptual to reduce the number of testing organizations. And instead of two testing organizations, there was only one other service, the Ukrainian Tax Administration, that had the opportunity to carry out checks on both taxes and insurance contributions. But today's coalition is demonstrating that they don't need to reduce the number of tests to continue to survive all the juices from the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, the President of Ukraine has promised to expedite the adoption of the Single Social Import Act in order to minimise the number of checks. This is a promise we are living up to today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u194	Please, 29th Kirilenko. Oh, I'm sorry, they're insisting on casting a vote. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:51:09]] For-57 Not supported. 29th Kirilenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u195	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. I propose that this option be removed, because doing other requirements is always an additional point for control authorities. The employer must carry out 11 points, which are already voted on from the top, and which are already 12 points, “other requirements”. This means that any tax officer or any other supervisory or audit authority will recommend that the employer comply with other requirements. The question is, What are the other requirements? So let's say that we have a complete list of the previous 11 points, or not write it down at all. Because we all know that other requirements, as well as other approaches, if these are provided in laws, this means a field both for corruption and for the pressure of inspection and control bodies. In connection with this motivation, I have made this amendment and insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u196	The Working Group, which was composed of employers, did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u197	I'll bet 29 a vote. Please be determined. [[13:52:30.]] For-31 Not supported. Please, Shevchuk, 30. Don't insist. Chevchuk, 34. Kirilenko, 36. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u198	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. I'm sorry, Your Honor, but I insist again, because I believe that this item should be deleted because it says, "a list of types of payments for which there is no single contribution is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." I think first, the source of corruption, secondly, for abuse, thirdly for volunteerism at the level of government officials, not even ministers. If you and I are already adopting the Single Social Contribution Act, which is really important, I would say, for business is epochal, and for employers too. This should be clearly foreseen as to which payments are the only social contribution that does not include the only social contribution. And not passing it on to the ransom of Kabmin, where the political winds can change, the officials will change, and so we will again be in a system of instability on this issue. So I insist on voting on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u199	The Committee and the working group do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u200	I'm voting on the 36th amendment. [[13:54:06]] For-32 Not supported. Kirilenko 37.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u201	You know, I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u202	Thank you. Chevchuk. Hara's accounted for. Chevchuk 41st has no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u203	61st. Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u204	Drought microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u205	Thank you. My dear colleagues, I'm talking about an amendment that concerns determining for people with disabilities who work in enterprises and in social organizations with disabilities the rate of deduction of 2.80 percent. My amendment is only for people with disabilities who work for companies of the Ukrainian Association of the Deaf and Ukrainian Blind. Vasil Georgievicz, I would ask that we take into account all the disabled who work for the social organizations of the disabled. This will not be normal for the blind and the deaf. And I'm asking that we vote for this amendment for all the disabled who work for the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u206	Adam Ivanovich, the committee was very careful with the matter. The norm that the Committee considers necessary, it has been adopted, is now in law, but indefinitely expanding the zone of those who have benefits of this kind is simply not reasonable. The Committee therefore accepted only part of the proposal by Valery Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u207	Vote. So there's going to be two votes -- first, I'm putting a motion for a full vote to include Amendment 47. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:56:30.]] For-57 Not supported. I now put to the vote to support the drafting of the committee. [[13:56:51]] For 237 Supported. 61 revisions. Joey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u208	Jaroslav Jojik Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! We have all witnessed the decline in taxes when the new Tax Code was introduced. But the tax base was formulated in such a way that real taxes on all subjects of entrepreneurship increased substantially. And it was only the protest of the entrepreneurial environment that made Kabmin essentially withdraw its Tax Code. Today we see the stated, stated goal of this bill to reduce the number of insurance payments and to reduce the number of checks. But really this goal, this declaration remains only a declaration if this concept of collection of pension contributions is preserved by the Pension Fund. So I insist that we once again reduce the number of control organs and give these.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u209	61st vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:58:23]] For-58 Not supported. 63rd. Jojika microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u210	Please miss this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u211	70th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u212	Then let's go fix Kirilenko. 70th and 71st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u213	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Look at the amendment that I have made: “Collecting from the payer a single social contribution of any additional fee for services related to the payment of the fee, except for the payment of banking or postal services is prohibited”, and the Committee rejected the amendment. I have a question, and why? What the committee encourages is that the payer should be surrounded by some “croaks” who offered to pay him additional costs for some possible additional services. We've already seen the tender price story. There the boys figured out how much mediation services around this contribution, by the way, the veto was imposed precisely because of this situation, on the previous Single Social Contribution Act. So why don't we just limit these unlovers to such a completely direct norm and ban any additional defeats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u214	The Committee considered the proposal and did not understand what it was referring to at all. I mean, it's an extra "just in case" proposal, and if someone sees something. This is not what we could have envisaged in this bill. I'd like to tell you something else, distinguished colleagues. In the 27-person working group, there were representatives of three sides of social dialogue: the State party, Mintrud and the units, the employer associations and the trade union side. Therefore, all the interests of the three groups have been taken into account in the consideration of all amendments to the Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u215	I'm betting on a vote of 70, Kirilenka's amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:00:42]] For-49 Not supported. 71st. Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u216	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Sorry, colleagues, I insist again. Why? I propose to make it very simple and understandable for all of us and people to complement: “the creation of intermediation structures between the Pension Fund, which collects this contribution and the payer of the only social contribution is prohibited.” I've got a thousand questions why the profile committee doesn't agree to consider this amendment, which, from the beginning, at the time of the adoption of the profile law, reflects any desire, any intermediate structures, to parasiate on the payment of a single social contribution. And to express the desire, either through the future decisions of Kabmin or any other decision, to mediate between the payer of the single social contribution and the Pension Fund and to make billions. I propose that you listen to my proposal and vote on this completely needed amendment in light of past experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u217	Vote. [[2:02:04]] For-66 So, the next amendment, we got 80 jojiks? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u218	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. I insist on voting on this very important amendment, which significantly improves the status of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u219	Please 80 amendments to the vote. [[14:02:43]] For-40 Not supported. 81st? Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u220	Please remove this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u221	Progress has already been made, progress has been good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u222	Yes. 81st? Don't you insist? No, it's not. You're 83? 84th, 85th?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u223	Up to 90 amendments, please take off.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u224	Until the '90s? Yes. Please, Kirilenko, '90s? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u225	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Well, I was motivated by previous Amendment 29 on other functions that were foreseen for the employer. This is the same for the Pension Fund. A list of all 10 points by which, 9 points are defined by the rights and authorizations of the Pension Fund and its territorial authorities and 10 points by which other functions are envisaged. When other functions arise, it can be theoretical, and sometimes practical, to abuse. For example. In the relationship between the Pension Fund and its local offices and the sole social contribution paid. In order for this not to happen, I propose a simple amendment that foresees the removal and concentration of the bill and the future law around the exhaustive functions of the Pension Fund, which is set out in the preceding paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u226	It's the '90s vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:04:31]] For-49 Not supported. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Don't insist. Yes, the 94th Kirylenka is accounted for. 95th, Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u227	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u228	What amendment? Jaroslav, whom we are discussing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the 95th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u230	95th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u231	If we want to reduce the number of insurance contributions and reduce the number of testers, surely if we vote on the 95 amendment that formulates the tasks and functions of the State Tax Service, we will definitely achieve that goal, which means we will reduce the number of checks that do not allow us to live today in an entrepreneurial environment. But today's vote shows that the objectives and objectives of today's ruling coalition are quite different, and this vote will be the lakh paper on the real goals of today's ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u232	It's the 95th vote. I'll bet you 95. [[2:06:04]] For-60 95 is 60. Declined. 96th. Joey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u233	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. I would like to point out that this amendment also continues to describe all the functions of the tax administration, according to which it will be given the sole right to come to businesses and carry out checks. So once again, I urge the governing coalition to support these goals, which the President of Ukraine has spoken so much about, and the coalition itself, when you've been given authority, and you talk so much about it every day. It's another lactating piece of your real motives and your real goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u234	It's the 96th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:07:18]] For-27 Not supported. Kirilenko, 100th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u235	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I think it's a reform bill at all, but it will only work when the number of insurance funds is reduced and when the sole social contribution is reduced, and when the share of the contribution between employers and hired workers starts to be redistributed. And if you go only formally to this reform, it's not going to work, it's not the first time that it's tried to be implemented. By the way, the tired plan for it to work is that I am the government, regardless of its political color, in this part of my wish for success. Well, given that at least one of my amendments has been taken into account before, the 94th, which I'm deeply impressed with, I'm going to make the following amendments, which are not of principle, because, unfortunately, they haven't passed, I'm going to take them off and I'm not going to insist on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u236	Thank you for the design. 115th, Jojik. Don't you insist? Is he insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u237	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. I agree with my colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko that this bill could really be reforming. If there wasn't a gap between the words and the actions of today's coalition. Yet in this version of the bill, it is certainly a step forward. But as much as possible from simplifying business in Ukraine, it seems that the ruling coalition simply does not want to do so. So once again, maybe for the last time, I'm trying to show the reality of the position of the ruling coalition. So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u238	Now we're going to show the reality by voting. I'd like to make a decision on 115 amendments. [[2:09:39]] For-49 The opposition is inconsolable. Yes, insists on 109 revisions of Arjewitin. It's counted. He has a point. Please, 109th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u239	Dear National Deputies! In the first edition, “accounting documents” is a more correct word than “payment documents” will now be used. So I think the first edition was more successful. And I had to leave her. Because this term is more used. And I would also like to remind you that this is another gendarmerie function for the banking system. And that's why I can understand why you have such an aversion to banks. Because banks today exercise currency control instead of the state. Funding is done in place of the state. Now there will be payments for their expenses. So I'm just stressing you, where there's a lack of banking. But leave the terminology behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u240	Yes, I'm putting 109 amendments, which are considered by the committee, in support. Please vote. [[14:10:52]] For 206 206th. Dear colleagues, I think it's here. Is there a principle of the Committee's view on 109th?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u241	But, in princip, it doesn't matter in principle. They discussed and accepted him. We can keep it that way, but the room confirmed the logic of the committee's decision and the working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u242	Okay. 120th, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u243	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, all of us are the last period of witnessing how the new coalition takes the budget first in 15 minutes, and then three months later, it sequesters it by 18 billion dollars. In doing so in such a way that, at the last minute, this bill is being passed so that Ukrainian society is not able to find out, and what is the economic situation that today's coalition is leading to. Just as the foundations of national security, the basic principles of internal and external politics are accepted at night, with 420 amendments to the opposition disregarded. But the time will pass and, I am sure, will return to those amendments. I am convinced that the conceptual changes proposed by the Ukrainian People’s Party regarding the reduction in the number of testers are necessarily today’s coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u244	It's the 120th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:12:45]] For the 18th. Not supported. 140th Jojika.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u245	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. I want to stress that everything I've said before that the stated goals and the real course of implementing economic policy in Ukraine are very important in the state. And that's what Ukrainian society should be aware of. So I am convinced that the proposals made today by the Ukrainian People's Party to reduce the number of examiners will necessarily be supported in this Supreme Council, but not by today's coalition, but by a new coalition. Because at such an approach, at such a pace, the adoption of the budget, and then its withdrawal, at such a pace, at the filing of the Tax Code, and then its withdrawal, of course, will not be interpreted in the Supreme Council, nor in the economy of the State. Thank you. So I am recording all my adjustments in view of the impossibility of accepting them as part of this coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u246	Thank you. That's absolutely right. Who among the deputies whose amendments are not taken into account insists on their consideration? Now, it's Vasily Georgievich. Which one of the deputies? It doesn't, does it? Then, please, Vasily Georgievich, what are your suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u247	What I have said in the derogatory word, the comments of the General Legal Administration in the closing positions of 615 positions: “from the date of the entry into force of this law, other normative acts that are applied in the part that does not conflict with this law shall be deleted”. Please vote and support this observation by the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u248	I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[14:15:00]] For 242 Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u249	Adam Ivanovich, and for the purity of the genre, whether it is necessary to vote or not, a technical error in the name of the temporary disability insurance fund is printed “births”, and we know that birth, birth benefit, is already a state level from the State budget. Let us vote that the word “birth” of the Soccer Foundation should be removed from the entire text.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u250	I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[14:15:46.]] For 244 Copy that. Any notes? Yes, please, the head of the Zajchuk Pension Fund, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u251	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! We have waited 15 years for this law. I'm underlining. 15 years. And what some have done is said to be a reduced number of checks, it is actually decreasing the number of testers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u252	Thank you. There's nothing to thank for. I'm voting for adoption as a whole, under registration number 5625, about the congregation and accounting. The Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Single Social Contribution. Please vote. [[14:16:41]] For the 250. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to. I would like to support my suggestion that we now consider two more questions quickly and announce a recess. What questions? This is a matter of demand. We have a repeated request from our colleague Karmazin on behalf of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of the Ukraine Demchenko, and on a matter that we have not concluded with you regarding the State Budget Act. Please support the proposal to continue the meeting. Vote. [[14:17:35]] For 242 242, that is, continued to address these two issues. I'm voting on the proposal. Who's to go back to voting on the drafts of the Law amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 and on the general government pension policy? [[Registration number 6673]] Please vote. [[14:18:12]] For 253 Dear colleagues, listen to the explanation, then you will argue. I said, when we first voted, I didn't turn him down, I didn't put him back to the vote, I asked him to hold consultations, and I said we'd figure it out. So we've had some consultations. Now 253 votes allowed us to go back to voting on this law. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, now, now. First. The other one. Anyone who wants to speak to the faction in one minute, please sign up in one minute. Jojik, please. You're in a fight today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u253	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to confirm Mrs. Kseniya Ljapina's words, which states that for the first time in the Ukrainian State, the budget sequester is not 18 billion dollars trying to make a shortcut. In a situation where only yesterday the budget changes were made, and today he is trying to vote. Indeed, the budget that has been adopted in our country in 15 minutes in all readings certainly needs a sequester with an incongruity of income. But instead of carrying out the sequestering of those articles that the government and governing coalition are proposing today, this question is subject to very careful consideration, and it is indeed to those individuals and businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u254	Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u255	Oleg Ljasko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party of “The Fatherland”. You know, when the vote took place, I looked at the government officials sitting in a government bed: the First Vice Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, his deputy. They're happy to smile. Dear friends, the one who laughs is the one who laughs. And millions of Ukrainian citizens need to know what you're laughing about: reducing spending on an agribusiness complex, repairing roads, raising taxes on small and medium-sized businesses, cutting housing costs. No war invalid in the 65th century will get a new car because you're canceling this program, you're not getting a new home because you're canceling this program. Hundreds of thousands of people in line, military and Chernobyl workers, and others will be homeless. Here are your promises that you made before the elections when this government was approved, and here are your real affairs. And where do you put this IMF loan you're taking? 5.5 billion will be given to Firthash, who will share with you what you will give, and others will walk as they did in 20 years. The previous 300 billion have been raised, and where are those promised golden mountains of those billions? We're for this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u256	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u257	We will not vote for this law. And today's government budget project confirms the failure of this government not only to implement its plans but also President Janukovic's pre-election promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u258	Thank you. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u259	Respected colleagues, when the financial crisis hit all countries, all those with heads of State had begun to heal the real economy and stimulate the development of the internal market. We have driven the real sector into oblivion and practically put the industry to the end. Again, the whole world is facing a reduction in budget deficits and budget balances. This is Greece, these are European countries. We're trying to live again, as we say, in isolation from reality. So to this day, when today's government came, we thought we had come to a mountain of money. We heard about it, and it turns out we're in a deep financial pit where the bottom can't be seen. And at the bottom, if you look at the binoculars, there's debt obligations that have to be repaid. Thus, the people rightly say: ‘ Stretch your feet in your outer garments. ’ We have to live, not fool ourselves. Balance the budget and come out of the crisis. That's how the world heals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, be careful. I give the floor to First Deputy Prime Minister Andrew Petrovich Clovis. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u261	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You know, when I went to the Supreme Council, under the dome here, in the hall, I really smiled, you know why? Because I've seen all my friends, the people's deputies, including Mr. Lazko. So I'm happy to always come in, see my friends I've already worked with, and I think we're not just another year, maybe we're not gonna work together for a decade. And now, as far as the question is concerned, the state language. The issue of financing expenditure to support veterans, disabled persons, paralympics will be funded in full, including housing, as defined by the 2010 Budget Act and health and education expenditure will be funded in the first order. And so I'm asking you to support the budget changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u262	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Laws on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 and on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, taking into account the positions of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote like the law. Vote. [[14:24:57]] For 256 All the proposals made by the Communists were taken into account, so they voted. The law is passed, thank you. Dear colleagues! We have another question. I have repeatedly urged my colleague Karmazin to consider the question, his bill, including his bill, number 2605, on the release of Demchenk from office of the Supreme Court of Agriculture. Please vote. Take down the vote. From what? One minute, Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u263	"Julia Tymoshenko's Block." We will vote for the release of Judge Demchenk. But I would like, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, honourable officials, to say about the previous law, the bill you voted on. You voted against the rules in general, denying us the opportunity to make proposals for second reading. You are breaking the Supreme Council through your knees when you need to adopt laws that are directed against millions of people. Don't be surprised when you're in need, they'll treat you like you're in opposition right now. Ignoring the rights of opposition that protects people, and you choose these people and deny them the possibility of even submitting their proposals. Yes, the Communists have taken into account what they have agreed. And who has taken our proposals into account, not to raise taxes for small and medium-sized businesses, not to cut costs for agri-industrial complex, build roads, and others, to reduce expenditure on authorities. Because while Mikhail says, Vasilovich, while you're over the crisis, millions of beggars will lose weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, wait, let's hear the author's report first for two minutes, and secondly, Easy, I think you're already on the list and the more on the aisle, stop speaking. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u265	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, on September 3, 2008, at a meeting of the Committee on Justice, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft decision on the release of Demchenk Stepan Fedorovich from the post of Judge of the Supreme Court. Take as a whole. I remind you that several times this decision has not been supported in the Supreme Council Hall, and as a result, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine for more than 2.5 years, this official has been in an unconstitutional position. At the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 30 June 2010, you were asked to return to the question of the release of Demchenko Sergio Fedorovic from the post of judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine for the purpose of re-voting the matter. The first draft of the Ukrainian People's Deputies' Decision: Soboljeva, Philenka, Schustik, Senchenka, Grača, Oilynik and Karmazin was introduced on June 5, 2008, more than two years ago. I would like to vote in favour of the release and the celebration of the Constitution over ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-08-m0.u266	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote a draft Order on Demchenk's release from office as Judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2605]] Please vote. [[2:29:05]] For 333 It's been decided. And another vote. I am voting on the proposal to continue the evening session today until we have exhausted the entire agenda. Please vote. [[14:29:34]] For 241 There's no more football today. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The evening’s work starts at 4:00 p.m.
