ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:21]] There were 422 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 29th. Thirty-seven questions of the agenda have been considered: four laws and four decrees have been passed, three bills adopted on the basis, one bill has been converted to the committee for further consideration, and 17 bills have been rejected, and one law has been passed on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, two laws have been rejected. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. People's Deputy Zdunowski, faction of the "Timoshenko Yuli Block". The right to speak is passed to Oleg Laska. The next one will be the Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear citizens of Ukraine, it is unfortunate to note that on the next anniversary of the Constitution, another guarantor is trying to rewrite it. It would seem a paradox, the deputies of power are convincing us almost hysterically every day, as the mantra, that power is stable, power is strong, has come for a long time, and at the same time President Janukovic is proposing to change the Constitution, in fact causing a turn of political instability in Ukraine. But this paradox is easily explained. On the one hand, Janukovic seems to have all the power in the country, the controlled majority in Parliament, the controlled government, the controlled vertical, the law enforcement authorities, the selling courts, the dependent media, and at the same time, the Constitution's anniversary says that hope is still strengthening the President's authority, because the Constitution, you see, is imperfect. The answer to this paradox is very simple. The government is afraid of elections. Even though we're being convinced here every day that they've come seriously and for a long time, they're not really long and not serious, because power, given in an unconstitutional way, through the usurpation of power, is not forever. And this power will end today in 2012 at the parliamentary elections, when most in Parliament will take up opposition parties and form executive power, government and vertical. President Janukovic is therefore trying to prevent such a catastrophic development by making changes to the Constitution. What are these changes? This is a complete zeroing of the role of Parliament. Here you are today, honourable deputies of power, sitting down, you seem to be deciding a lot of things about you, and your President is proposing such changes when you don't have anything to do with the paper. Today, even if you formally represent something, you form a government, tomorrow there will be nothing at all. So, fearing the people, fearing responsibility, the authorities put people in prisons like Anatolia Makarenko, like others, as they plan to do, they persecute the opposition, it shuts down the opposition media. All of these are signs of fear and lack of power. Therefore, Ukrainian citizens should not give in to the inspiration that today’s authorities have come seriously and for long. Not for long! But the guarantee of her departure as soon as possible is our united efforts of opposition. When we are divided, when we fight, we are weak, and that is what the authorities use, and that is what citizens suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u4	The only thing that calms down when the authorities are afraid is that people have a chance to get democratic power, to get freedom, and that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you. The national deputy Kozub is transferring the right to speak to Homutinik. Please. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Who's next? Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Taking advantage of the opportunity to speak, I would like to inform you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u7	Who? If it comes to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u8	I would like to inform you about the process of preparing the draft Tax Code for second reading. Immediately after the adoption of the Tax Code, a working group of factions belonging to the coalition was formed. For almost two weeks now, we've been working on this document with the government. I can tell you that at this time we have made significant positive changes that I would like to report. First of all, we agreed on a substantial revision of the second chapter of the Tax Code, which deals with the administration of taxes, which was the most noticeable. A joint decision has been taken to remove all fiscal innovations by replacing them with the existing laws on the order of repayment and on the tax service. [[2181]] The changes that remain in the second chapter will be minor and will facilitate the relationship between business and tax. For example, such as simplifying the procedure for accusing tax administration decisions and so on. In the third and fifth chapters, which deal with taxation of business income and VAT, where substantial changes have been proposed by the government, we leave behind all positive innovations, such as tax cuts, the introduction of special taxation regimes that will stimulate investment in energy conservation, innovation, and science-intensive technologies. There are also all the standards that apply to stimulating the improvement of core funds, as well as the possibility of deferring tax payments through the new proposed mechanism of investment tax credit. At the same time, we agreed to give up some of these tax proposals, namely, to leave unchanged opportunities for UTOs companies that have some value added tax benefits and to give up changing attitudes. non-retribution on gross costs of charity. Substantial changes will also take place in the tax on the income of natural persons, rent payments, and the concept of the ecological congregation will be changed. To conclude, I would like to emphasize that about three thousand proposals from more than a hundred national deputies have been made to the committee. And tomorrow is the last day for amendments and suggestions to be made by the national MPs. Next. I think we have every chance and opportunity to work together for another week on the Tax Code project, taking into account all the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u10	Taking into account all proposals from both coalition MPs and opposition deputies. Also, listen to the opinion of public organizations and business representatives. So I urge you to take an active part in this session so that we can accept the document that we've been waiting for for 10 years and in the paper that will organize everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u11	Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u12	I'd like you to give it to Olena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u13	Olena Bondarenko, microphone, please. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u14	Dear colleagues and fellow countrymen! Parliament has decided with its representatives at the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, now this regulator from this composition and these people depend on what our national television and radio space will be like for the average citizen. Which way will our society go? How long will the state be protected in information? I want to remind members of the National Council once again that this regulator is primarily concerned with the interests of the citizen, society and state, and then the field. That is, it develops a branch for the needs of the average citizen, society, and state. I look forward to the end of the era of dirty political decisions and gross lobbyism in Nacsov. I very much hope that the National Council will now be uncompromising in the fight against violators. I look forward very much to the National Council for Decisions that Promote the Development of Education and Child Broadcasting in Ukraine. I want to believe that it is this National Council that will be able to implement digital television in Ukraine. The composition of the National Council has been updated, but the problems it faces remain old and old. Nacsovet's legacy receives an older legal framework, a complete chaos in the introduction of digital television, a rapid process of monopolizing the cable television market, disorderly licensing and weak regional broadcasting. So, speaking now from the Parliamentary rostrum to the members of the National Council, I offer you the support of our faction to build a national television space. You can count on all your steps in this direction to be supported. But right now, I want to warn against reckless, inefficient or harmful decisions for citizens, societies, states, or areas of decision. Parliament is not a roof, it's not a big one, it's a question for each of you. And rest assured, Parliament itself will be the Golgophe who will crucify you for your mistakes and calculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u15	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. He's giving Vassil Kravchuk the right to speak. Please come in. The next one will be Teeth instead of Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u16	Vasil Kravchuk, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of "The Fatherland". As you observe the actions of power, you inadvertently conclude that the main goal of this authority is to return to its oligarchs from Russia's Ukreenergo $5 billion, to sit down for playing the head of customs, who defends the interests of the state. Meanwhile, in our country, where 30 percent of the stock of fertile land is owned, the harvest began. As a former farm manager, I am deeply concerned about the state of affairs in our country’s agribusiness complex. Practically domestic farmers have never been left by the state on the spot, as it is now, like, surviving who can. In the southern part of the village, farmers have already entered the very responsible period of harvesting crops. But what accounted for the harvesting of the farmer’s funds for the harvest? In the Hmiel district alone, the need for collection work amounts to 260 million, and it is provided with only half the need. Banks don't actually give out, and if they do, it's between 28 and 30 percent of the year. The government budget does not provide for partial repayment of the loan. So far, the Fort Agrarian Fund has not worked, and there are no contracts for the purchase of grains. And at such a price on a grain that is now formed by grain traders, due to the failure of the government of Azar to pay the added value, the price for today is lower than the cost. The villagers will have to sell everything before the cold. What are the costs of harvesting? Again, by cutting off the cattle that was left over, as they did the soybeans in the spring, which led to the price of livestock being reduced by a factor of one and a half times. The villagers believed that according to decree 1248, which was adopted by the government of Timoshenko, the price of milk would not be less than 2 bracelets of 50 copies and 2 bracelets of 12 copies per litre, corresponding to the first and second species. Today, peasants pay 1 bracelet 10, 1 bracelet 20 for a letter of milk, and cheese in stores sells 65 or 70 bracelets. It's known that one kilogram of cheese takes just 11 liters of milk to produce one kilogram. Arithmetics are simple and easy to understand where and where income is. A similar situation with meat purchased in peasants for 10-11 dollars, which is 30 percent less than the minimum price according to the above-mentioned decision. And there's a sausage in 50-70 bracelet stores. There has not been such parasitization in the work of peasants, and both the Antimonopoly Committee and the Price Committee have observed it. How many peasants can you fool? I ask the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and those who promised the village's golden mountains and great state support before the presidential elections. Here is where the five billion that the Stockholm Court in Ukraine would have benefited. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u17	Valentin Zhubov instead of Zadirk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, next will be Hrapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! Respectable voters! A week ago, from this rostrum, I spoke of the sad incident that took place in the town of Kerchi, when on 9 May, a veteran of the Great Homeland War, who had fought from the first to the last day and had neither the greetings nor the invitations to city celebrations, had committed suicide. I then said that it was not just sad, and it was a shameful event not only for Kerchi but for the whole country and for all of us. But today I am forced to return to this problem because, after a day, on Sunday, the mayor-hero Kerch, Mr. Osadchi, called me personally at home on my cell phone and in purely rude and cynical form reported me for allowing myself to speak in luxury from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. I would like to stress that the conversation was extremely insolent, for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," for "you," I understand that everything can happen that someone has overlooked, someone has failed to carry out their duties properly, but in a normal situation, it was necessary to check who made such a failure, which resulted in this tragedy. Punishing about, but instead, the journalists who described the case in the “Comsomola Truth” began to be persecuted. In the neighborhood, everyone was intimidated and exposed by a veteran, it turns out he wanted to commit suicide a long time ago, and he decided to do so on 9 May. I therefore ask, Vladimir Mihajlovich, my statement today to consider as a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine to bring criminal proceedings against the Osadjé action under article 344 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which is so called “interference in the activities of public officials”, and which provides for liability for the deprivation of liberty from 3 to 5 years. At the same time, a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, who must give a moral and political assessment of the activities of the so-called mayor of the city and realize that the activities of such mayors and public figures would discredit the entire system of government and of the President of Ukraine himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u19	National Deputy Hrapov, Communist faction. The next one will act. Please, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Next up will be Yuri Prokopchuk instead of Gudima.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u20	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The two events that took place last week in Lubna moved me to this rostrum. What happened in this small quiet city? The first event. It is that a young person was beaten by an employee of internal affairs. And now these cases are at the prosecution's office. And the second event. The fact that the city chief was involved in a rally to protect this man. A city head who killed a man in his own time. Why did such a great love for their electorate and for Lubna’s inhabitants suddenly arise? And the question is very simple. Because the law enforcement agencies, especially the city’s, the local department of interior affairs, have come too close to the local authorities and the local mayor with the property and facilities of Luben. Yes, the authorities of the internal affairs of Lubna are violating the illegal sale of TV “Silchoschemia” and the massive losses of the state and the city; the illegal sale of 24 civilian defence objects; the sale of a urban culture house of 20 million and sold for 600,000; the destruction of a strategic water canal, which has deliberately led to bankruptcy; the theft of budgetary resources in the reconstruction of the “Central” stadium. As a result, I ask: first, the law enforcement authorities and the prosecutor's office of the Poltava region immediately carry out all the follow-up and bring the guilty law enforcement officer of Luben to justice for the beating of the citizen of Lubna. And the second. I ask the General Prosecutor’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to join all forces in order to be disclosed, to carry out investigation and disclosure of these facts, and to be brought to justice on those objects on which the use of the Lubenian city authority is permitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u21	Yuri Prokopchuk, BUT faction. Mybeard will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u22	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Papačina”. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, Anatoly Makarenko is in charge of ordering active authority to handle oil - gas magnets, Fertash and others. From a legal point of view, the legal basis for choosing a precautionary defense is not and cannot be. First, the criminal case of Makarenko's indictment was violated under article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on "Service negligence". That is, a failure or an improper performance by a ministerial servant because of his unconscionable treatment of them. I mean, Makarenko Anatolia's actions have no purpose. This crime is not serious. And the penalty for doing so depends on the severity of the consequences, either on the fine of 50 untaxed minimums, the income of 850 dollars, or up to 5 years of imprisonment. Secondly, in accordance with article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the judicial investigation into these criminal cases is carried out by the prosecutor's office. He's being led by the Security Service. I am convinced that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, without the recognition of a decision by the Ukrainian courts, namely the Stockholm Court, which is not legalized, are not valid today. And third. In accordance with article 148 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, precautionary measures are applied to the suspect when he does not cooperate with the investigation. Anatoly Makarenko was clearly following all the instructions, and all the meetings he had with the investigators were conducted. So there is absolutely no basis for taking custody of Anatolia Makarenko, who, rather than one of the officials, from the magnets, was able to absorb the gas used by the entire Ukrainian people. It is not possible to subscribe to a failure or a personal message as a precautionary measure. By the way, more than 100 Ukrainian national deputies present in this room have turned to Makarenko for bail. The above is: violation of the rules of inquiry, the use of information of international arbitration, which has not been recognized in the judicial order of Ukraine, the baseless taking of custody is evidence of political subtext, not of the legal basis. Thus Anatoly Makarenko is a political prisoner in Ukraine. So I want to warn all of us about the negative trends that are emerging today in our society. Today, Makarenko has been chosen as the object of political settlement, and tomorrow there may be others if this is not stopped. A recent history of the totalitarian regimes of the Stalin-Brian regime of the Soviet Union, Fascism in Germany shows that if this is not stopped in time, there will be a tragedy. As a warning, I want to present the words of the well-known law in Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u23	Finish up, please. The lawyer's words.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u24	As a warning, I want to bring in the famous German lawyer of World War II, Martin Niemeller, regarding the actions of the fascist Gestapo: “At first they came after the Communists, I was not a Communist, and I kept silent; then they came after the Jews, they took the Jews, but I was not a Jew, and I closed my eyes; then they came after the trade unionists, and I was not a unionist, and I was not a member of the trade union, so I kept silent; when they came after me, protecting me was no one.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u25	Thank you. People's MP Maybeard, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u27	Viacheslav Lukyanov, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Shevchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u28	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine, is currently working in a working group to finalize the Budget Code. We understand that we must work quickly and effectively. We understand that the budget process, which starts on July 15th, has to be started on a new legislative basis. Two basic laws, two basic codes — the Budget Code and the Tax Code — must be considered for this to be done. The adoption of these very important laws from an economic point of view provides an opportunity to change attitudes towards local self-government, allowing for change. local authorities for economic development, it gives new weight to local heads, local deputies for territorial development. This is certainly progressive legislation, stimulating the economy by allowing local councils to support the development of investment projects, development programmes, software development, planning, these are all positive features of the new budget code, the new budget legislation. But I cannot say that this is perfect legislation. There are, of course, things that need to be rectified, and certainly need to be changed to the proposed proposals for strengthening the influence of the Supreme Council and the Preparatory Committee, the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council, so given that today's deadline for amendments is ending, I am again addressing all the deputies who have expressed their interest, to amend the bills in the budget committee, and we will include and consider these bills. We are confident that the new budget developed in the new legislation will be much better for both the state and for every citizen. Thank you and please support this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u29	Sergey Shevchuk gives the right to speak to Yuri Gnatkevich. The next one will be Lutsky instead of Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u30	Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'll tell you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that I broke the law twice yesterday. First. I didn’t show up for work until lunch yesterday. For purely objective natural reasons. And the second. I didn't report it to you or report it to the secretariat. The rules prescribe that a deputy should report the reasons if he does not show up for work. But when I was driving and listening to the radio, I listened to the Supreme Council and heard that ours were blocking the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council's rostrum, I was, frankly, delighted. First, I thought, finally, they're showing teeth, because when the faction of the Party of Regions blocked against NATO for a month and a half, for raising social standards for a month and a half, we put up with it. By the way, they're very interesting slogans, they've kept them in the stands all the time. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you were also absent from work recently, but you told us that you were in Germany on a mission. But it was at that time that we did not once again vote on the Yavorovsky proposal for a plan to commemorate the Jubilee in Ukraine. Some said that the Sheptics seemed to have organized riots against the Jews and therefore had not voted for it. And my colleague and friend Mikhailo Kosov said that this was a kind of lie, that Sheptic had been hiding Jews in his churches and even inside himself. But we voted an interesting position, we voted to celebrate the 80th anniversary of Paul Popovic. And I want to tell you a story that was told to me from the first call. That when Paul Popovitch was our deputy, his father came to him from his town and wanted to talk to his son. So they called a meeting from the secretariat and the security guard to call Popovic out of the hall. And recently, the State Duma MP made an interesting suggestion that each MP would have a bracelet so that the Head of the Supreme Council would see where he was, whether he was sitting in his office somewhere, signing financial documents, whether he was anywhere near here, at least on which meridian and which parallel. I received your answer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to my question, to my request. And I have to say, honestly, I'm very grateful that it's written frankly and written honestly that you can't do anything on your own. For my part, I also prepared a bill to force MPs to go to work and to report honestly on how many people are in the hall. We need to increase the role of the reckoning commission, or maybe it's gone somewhere. And I'll give you the answer, finally, to that replica you told me last time, that if you talk about bourgeois wings in the faction of the Party of Regions, you have to talk about bourgeois wings in different factions. And that, indeed, is true. Only our bourgeois wing in our faction of "The Yulia Tymoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u32	Gradually, it rips off and rips off, and soon it is a wing, and there will be no feathers on it. I hope that we will live to see at least the bourgeoisies and capitalists in our Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u33	Thank you. National MP Lutsky, Party of Regions. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In recent times, society and directly in the Supreme Council have been considering a new heated debate on the reform of the education sector. Some opposition representatives, without having reached the groundless resignation of the Minister of Education and Science of Tobacco, immediately found a new clue for another shipment of criticism. The proposal of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Coalition for Amendments to the General Secondary Education Act, which failed to understand and analyse the bill, was made by the opposition to immediately recalling the idea of introducing 11-year secondary education, with competitive arguments not being accepted because there are no such arguments. The false ideology of 12-year-old general secondary education, which was so strongly promoted by the previous authorities, and now the opposition, was widely discussed on June 9 during parliamentary hearings with the participation of a wide range of educators. The hearing confirmed that society is perceived and supported by the introduction of 11-year-old education. As a result of hearings by the people's deputies, a bill has been drafted that preserves the best idea of a 12-year-old school, that is, training and the ability to get a job, and so on. Although the bill included in the agenda of the day’s current session, its consideration is actively blocked by the head of the Committee, Volodymyr Polo. In particular, Mr. Polocholo is directly trying to disrupt the committee's deliberations on the relevant bill. It was he who directed the committee’s secretariat to inform the deputies of the cancellation of the meeting, as if there were no quorum, who instructed them not to issue the forms on which the committee’s decision was based. By the way, the committee hasn't been meeting for more than two months. It's amazing that Mr. Polocholo cynically ignores not just his colleagues' opinion, but the entire education community that supports 11-year secondary education. At the same time, neither Mr. Pololo nor his contemporaries would want to admit that the implementation of the 12th year will entail not only double-shifting education in schools, but also more than 6 billion dollars of the state budget. Nor does it answer the question of what to do with the recruitment to higher education institutions in 2012? And where are the candidates to the two appeals to the Armed Forces of Ukraine? But these poor reformers are acting on principle, the main thing to offer, and there's going to be. In this connection, national deputies representing the Committee on Education and Science asked the regulatory committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the withdrawal of Vladimir Polo from the post of head of the committee. In view of this, I ask the BUT faction to immediately identify myself as head of the Education and Science Committee. And second of all, most of all. This week, we're going to be looking at this bill on an 11-year-old, asking all deputies to support it, because this law awaits all the educators of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! The statement has been completed. I ask the secretariat for the suggestions made in the presentations to prepare appropriate assignments, letters, and petitions. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the issues set out in the June 30th schedule. I'm announcing a draft city code for Ukraine. [[Registration number 6400]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Serbin, co-rapporteur – deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of the Forest Games. Please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Well, a little bit of the history of this city code. He was ready about a year and a half ago and registered here in our hall. But after the committee had considered this city code, it turned out to be very inconvenient, because there is only a mechanical combination of existing laws, there is no prospect of development, there is no account of the experience and the shortcomings of the law. And so the committee made a decision to create a working group and rewrote it. I wonder if they rewrote the code. I am very grateful to the members of the MINREGIONBUD who worked with our MP group, and I am very grateful to the experts of the Association of Architects and the secretariat of our committee. Now, what is in the codex and why, in our view, it should be accepted. First, we have the prospect of developing our urban activities. And we create self-governing organizations gradually from the government apparatus we pass on certification, licensing, by permission, through professional certification to these self-governing organizations. So we're going the way Europe is going. The second question is, we are improving and eliminating those shortcomings that are now in our legislation. Here's an example: the same urban ground. Thanks to this urban foundation, we have now destroyed the master plans in almost all cities, based on everything, and in historical sites, buildings that do not match and distort the historical count of our cities are being built. An example is the city of Kiev. We exclude this from our legislation. The following question. Now to build a small house in a village, you have to get a permit exactly like if we're building a 25-story building, it's just as hard to get it into use, you get ownership. Thus, the concept of a building passport, which is a simultaneous permit for such individual construction, is introduced. And if we accept it now in the law, people will have enough access to architecture once, to get this building passport, and to build it peacefully, even without the involvement of the mastermind organizations, and it doesn't take gas to get this house into operation. We stress the creation of city master plans, villages, and villages. But taking into account the lack of local budgets, we allow these master plans to be updated and we impose a three - month mandatory approval. Because there are now examples where, because of catching fish in murky water, the master plans are designed today, they are not approved after six months or more. And if the local council does not approve the master plan in three months, then we are allowed to approve another organization. These are the innovations, not all of which we introduce into our codex. Now, the scientific expertise, 23 of them. 19 comments we don't consider relevant, that's almost an editorial observation. For example, it is noted that the article has the same title as the chapter. That is, simply change the title of the article and no more such comments. That's 19 comments we've already taken into account and no questions asked. But there are four fundamental remarks that we just can't agree with, for example, scientific expertise insists that there be the same urban ground. I've already told you what led to the construction of the groundwork, and we can't agree with that. There is also such a observation that the title “City Codex” does not correspond to the substance of the Code. We can accept that if we approach it from a legal point of view. But still, if I take the practice of other countries, for example, I bring Germany, that codex is generally called the Building Codex, which describes the rules for the construction of cities and villages. So we're used to it and we're going to leave that name. We do not agree with the question that the Scientific and Experimental Authority proposes to unify urban activities and objects of architecture. These are completely different concepts, the object of architecture is a stand-alone building or a small complex, and urban activity is a complex work and it is. And it has to be a clear border or a boundary between these concepts. And these four principled remarks are what we need to keep. There's a question for the second reading. So for example, I'm grateful, there's a construction minister here, and we were with him two weeks ago in Belgrade. I'm just setting an example. 1.5 million people in the past year have taken up a million 80,000 square feet [80,000 m] of housing. All of Ukraine introduced 6.5 million feet [6.5 million m] of housing last year. We were pleased that many of the provisions of our City Codex, the project, had already been introduced from the experience of the Russians, even though we did not know this experience. But there are other issues that we need to ask, taking into account the experience of the advanced countries, and we're far from Russia, and these positions also need to be introduced in a second reading to make it a more effective mechanism. I'm finishing my brief report. I think this code is going to benefit our construction work, it's going to simplify the procedure for obtaining permits without violating the license to start construction, it's going to allow foreign investors to invest more quietly in building in Ukraine, and we're going to be able to get to the housing level of even more advisory times. Ukraine once built 20 million square feet [20 million sq m] of housing a year. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention. If there's a question, I'm ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put your name on the information board. Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u38	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Mr. Yuri! I can tell you that the master plan, for example, in Kiev between the last chamber of Chernevski, was violated 1,000 times 223 times, i.e. by individual decisions of Kyivrada changes to the master plan: a 300-acre radius fell out on the Trinity, 2 DEPOs fell out on the Left Bank, they were reprofiled conjuncturally under the residential structure, because that was convenient. And so it distorts the actual balance of Kiev's zone planning and so forth. As this code will fight, whether to warn such phenomena, whether there are safeguards to prevent such free conduct with a very important document, such as a master plan, such as a plan for the detailed construction of microregions. Because this leads to these many conflicts, and they're in Kiev all the time. Does the Code provide for safeguards against such phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u39	Thank you for asking me, my dear fellows. The codex has three fuses. The first fuse. The general plan has no right to change depending on the category of cities between 10 and 20 years, no one has the right to change it. Secondly, the master plan of a city like Kiev should be approved not less than the level of the Cabinet of Ministers after a thorough public discussion. The third is the urban foundation that we destroy and we don't give loopholes to the legislators so that we can reason on what you want and build what you want in those places, or in those areas that are envisioned under another construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u40	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Yuri, Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Timoshenko, Kirovograd, 100th constituency. I have a question for you as a professional builder: how do we better solve this problem, whether through the Kiev Capital Act, or through this bill that we are currently considering, and in the second reading, let's say this trend. What do I mean? You know how the Chernobyl team is now even more regional than it has actually corrupted in recent times the Kiev. The Kiev Center is actually distorted and its identity today is incredibly difficult to restore, it's accumulation, accumulation of floors, glass and concrete, where the true postwar Kiev is completely lost, as if no one were treating it. You know, frankly, it would be necessary to take some area that would not be allowed for the builders to touch at all, which would remain reserved. How can we better resolve this? Whether the Law on the Capital of Kiev should make these amendments or not, since the bill is now alive in the first reading, should bring the latter to the attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u42	Thank you for asking me, my dear fellows. So, in the City Codex, I've already talked about the term of its non-amendment. Secondly, Kiev's Master Plan, in any case, needs to be updated now, so that we can either take into account what we've done or change and, of course, define the historic zone. This is prescribed in the City Code and is stipulated in the “end-of-life” of this City Code, which amends the Law on the capital of Kiev, so that Kyivrada is no longer entitled to work what she did in order to do only in accordance with the general plan and with the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and, of course, in agreement with the body that protects the architectural heritage. And whoever's already in charge of the protection of the architectural heritage, you and I are going to be defined in that draft law that we're about to submit to your committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u43	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u44	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. We thank you for protecting the right of the builder in your law, especially making life easier for rural builders who will not have to collect dozens of documents or help with building passports. But I do have that question. Here colleagues asked about Kyiv how to protect his master plan. But this does not apply only to Kiev, district centers, and district centers, where everything was previously built according to the master plans. Don't you think that by the second reading, you have to provide for more stringent control of power, of the ministry, of the Cabin by following such plans, by their availability. And let the state have a much more active share. Otherwise we won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u45	I thank you for asking. The text of the Code now states that for district centres too, the master plan agrees with the Ministry of Regional Development. It is now due. I've already talked about the city's foundation. This applies not only to the city of Kiev, but to all the areas of Ukraine in general. But if you are yet, your dear colleague, to offer another step to increase control, we will certainly consider your wishes on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u46	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u47	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I was happy to read the codex. But I have a few questions. Well, you know about the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority. It's kind of destructive. I think they were the ones who were a little hot. But chapter 8 you have, it's a change to administrative, to the Code of Administrative Offences, where you put it, actually there should be changes to the Code of Administrative Offences. You make it the body of this codex. And so, you make it, it's a weak place and a vulnerable place. Don't you think we should go back to where it's supposed to be, to the Administrative Code? This time. And the second question. I saw carefully that we're canceling the law and the building standards that are, and the basics of construction, and the architectural activities, and the planning and the construction of the territory. So does the transition period need to be more serious? I mean, this code, in case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u48	Thank you, thank you for asking. First. This codex is already a transitory one, and we are gradually moving on to this issue. This is recorded in transitional positions. But this must be done. Now, instead of five laws, this codex has been written in general. We have these five laws, in addition to having many shortcomings, we will say that during the period of exploitation, they contradicted each other in many matters. For example, the same approval of the master plan was confusing and could be interpreted as you would like. This allowed for three, four times a year, in addition to the city’s justification for making changes to the master plan. That's why we wrote it in this code. For the sake of transposing it into the Administrative Code. You can agree with that, but my personal opinion is also discussed on the second reading. By the way, there's no reference to this question of scientific expertise, it agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u50	But given that we're doing a whole document, it seems to me that the responsibility is definitely prescribed here for the person who's starting to design, or for the person who's starting to apply for construction, and it would be better if we did it as prescribed in 800 laws, so that our local councils would prepare these areas to do it, for example, as in Russia, even though we did it four years ago with you. To do so, the builder paid 20,000 carbs, like there, and received documentation, build. All the networks are already up, the roads are up, the lights are up, the sewers are there, the gas is there. I can't imagine. This is where Vladimir Grigorovitch Yatsuba sits, and he'll confirm that we were there together. So, I think I need this to be in this code, the responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u51	Thank you. Yuri Sergiyovich, please sit down. I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy, Lisov Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u52	The venerable Presidium, the esteemed colleagues, on the questions asked in the Hall today, worries us all about the chaoticity of the building that exists in our country today. This is true of large cities, and this is true of small cities. And the important thing is to stop this chaos today with that normative base that is very difficult. And so there's a lot of self-inflicted oblivion that doesn't have a serious influence and the importance of government regulation. The document presented today to the Supreme Council on first reading is of great importance in general for the development of urban agriculture and for the complex forgetfulness of both cities and large territories. Today, in the construction of the city, there's a lot of engineering and transport infrastructure, and we can see that in the transport collapses that are in the central part of the city of Kiev and other cities. Social infrastructure is lagging behind, and every year more and more deficits in schools and institutions. So the committee pays great attention to sort of sort of sort of sorting out the normative base that exists today in our legislation to make a single document, usually to forget and control the development of areas. For our country, which is in European society, it is essential, because what we see today is neither us nor our society at all, and it has serious reproaches on our activities. Yes, indeed, the document presented today is not perfect, but it has been worked on by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the commission that was created on our committee. Personally, I would like to express my gratitude to my colleagues who have worked very hard to make a code of laws. We've studied carefully all of the observations of the science-experts, they've practically all made sense, and in the next we'll definitely take into account all the observations that they were. And I can see that the hall is not indifferent to this document. Therefore, I would ask you, fellow believers, on behalf of the committee, that we unanimously support this document so that the working group that will be formed on our committee will be given your comments so that we can give a more perfect document to the second reading, but to this day it is essential for the development of the territories and in general for the activities of the builders and other business subjects that are operating in this field today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the entry has been completed. [[Applause, laughter in the hall]] Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u54	Honorable Igor Volodymyrovich certainly does not doubt the adoption of this bill in the first reading. And we can certainly thank the Serbian colleague, who is a professional in this matter, that this City Codex was finally developed. And, of course, the right thing is that, like the Scientific and Experimental Authority, this bill provides for a huge job for the second reading. That's why I have my first request to you. The procedure may not be shortened when working on it. Active public forces must be involved here. But the question is. Tell me, please, today we have, every Ukrainian national deputy, numerous complaints of impossibility of individual builders, physical inability to obtain, or a state act on land, especially then an act of ownership of this built building in which the funds are invested. Is there any way this city code regulates work, communication between a private owner, an individual developer, and a government control body? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u55	He is today, the City Codex, with the goal of building a building that will be in the future. As for relationships today, the owners of the individual forgetfulness have accepted enough documents to legitimize them today. And today, we will certainly take into account the numerous comments in the finalization of this City Codex because virtually all deputies have such complaints. Therefore, land issues and acceptance of documents will necessarily be included in this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u56	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u57	I am willing to give the floor to Minister Volodymyr Bonadarenko of the Opposition Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u58	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u59	Thank you. Mr. Igor, you know very well that today many of these so-called public hearings are just propaganda. Because only people who are defined in areas are allowed into the Kiev City Council. And those who could really say a few words, although critical, are simply beaten at the entrance and not allowed as was the last time. I'd like to point out that it's very important when people are involved in talking about how to set them up, how to build a territory where they live, because somehow we're used to it, it's decided by the authorities without asking people. How does the City Code guarantee the participation of citizens in the discussion of the city’s construction and accounting issues? Are there sufficient deadlines, or are there mandatory publications of the Master Plan itself? Is there any guarantee that these thoughts will be heard by anyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Dmitrovich! It's practically the order that's already laid down in that document that's been given to you, but especially the city of Kiev, which has been repeatedly expressed today by the people's deputies, I want to say the following. Yes, indeed, the document that is today the general development plan of Kiev is not the capital master plan. It's great to know all of you, because it has absolutely no prospects that would make sense to develop such a great megapolis that tomorrow we wouldn't be ashamed of the development of our capital. So there's a lot of experience in many countries, and in Yuri Sergiyovich's report you've heard that the general development plan of Kiev needs to be approved not by a session of the Kiev City Council, but at least carefully studied by the professional administrations and ministries of the Cabinet of Ministers, the creation of a special commission, and then it should be approved there. But if you take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u62	Therefore, in the document given to you today, we are sure to work out a more perfect scheme for granting permits and public discussions on an object that is being built in the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u63	National MP Blackwolf, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Igor! Now, I have this question, look, if this code were to be built right now, what would change for the same city of Kiev that you are close to? How would it stimulate, from your point of view, in comparison with current legislation in general the building industry, well, still the ratio of the rights of local self-government, which should be close to you, and this codex? That's how it restricts or reinforces or complements it is also a serious issue, especially in the context of scientific expertise's observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u65	Practically all the observations of the Scientific and Expert Office are taken into account, except for four, and we are necessarily in the future work of the working group, we will definitely take into account all the comments that will be made. Because this document, which is presented, doesn't have a final edition, it's like a protocol of intent. So that you and I can work together on the document. With regard to the city of Kiev again, for example, if you take an experience such as that of Moscow, the Moscow Duma is responsible for ordering all construction in the capital. It's a customer, and then, when project decisions have been developed, then a project is being put on the competition, where the investor has to build only what's already approved. And we have a very different way of thinking about it, first you want to build a house, and then you have a human factor: build three floors, do a little bit wider, take the garages, take the shops and stuff. I mean, it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u66	Please let me finish. All of you, yes. Anatoly Seminoga, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell me that I understand that you have done a great job and that this codex is necessary. But we realize that we are not living in a simple time today and that even urban problems today are becoming ecological in the first place. How environmental issues are taken into account, environmental issues, first of all, environmental conservation, first of all, conservation of green plants. Because we know many examples today: the city of Kharkiv, the city of Kyiv, where there is no planned natural cutting of green plants, and the city is just losing it. Is this the problem of environmental conservation reflected in your code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u68	There is a Ministry of Ecology in the vertical of power that has its own departments in all areas and cities. That is why any project that is approved must be evaluated — necessarily. Yes, of course, today's very impressive territories are those that refer to the city council, especially the green areas. And that's why we'd like to do, hard to write positions in the City Code for the preservation of green areas, rest zones, playgrounds and so on. If you have a normal offer, dear suggestions, we will certainly consider it. But to date, this is based on an expertise conducted by experts from the Ministry of Environment and Departments in places.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u69	Thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion of the city code project. The factions first. Now, please, directly to the people's deputies, please record this. Please put your name on the information board. Alexander Skibinetsky, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u70	Please give Bondarenko my word, Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u71	They're asking Vladimir Bondarenko to do the show. Vladimir Strtovic will be next in line.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u72	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. I want to say today that the City Code is an extremely important document that needs really serious attention, regardless of any political orientation there. Because the territory in which a person resides should be a suitable place for a person to meet his basic needs in order to get closer to school, to get closer to the kindergarten, to the store. Along with having a zone of rest, green areas, and so if there is no orderly system of general plans, control over their implementation, we will live in such uncomfortable cities as today, when, for example, in Kiev from the left bank to the right, hundreds of thousands of people are to be transported, for on the left bank, 300 hectares of land that were under industrial construction were accidentally left to live in a residential environment. I want to say that the Code does contain the unification of a number of major laws that deal with land - dealing problems, technical preparation problems, and much more. So I think we really need to support him. At the same time, I would like to point out that the second reading needs to be made absolutely clear, such as the zoning of the city’s walls and the inviolability of five types of land. First of all, in cities where there are special historical zones, and that in every district center there are, there are no new objects that dissipate with the architecture of this piece of the central part of the city, especially in Kiev, these historical-security zones, they can't be touched. And today, unfortunately, there's an active construction going on. One of our colleagues, who now runs the Lviv region, is building an even bigger house there than the one built on the shore of Dniper, which caused a lot of problems there. I'd like to point out that you can't touch green areas, recreational zones, they, if destroyed, will make people's lives worse. I notice that today there's an attack on the Bay of Matthew, where there's a beautiful rowing channel, where they want to make a Windsorfing Club, make money, revues all over the area, and so on. Today in Kyivrad, this proposal was made by a representative of the Lithuanian Block. Notice that the engineering corridors in the cities have to be secure, you can't get into them, because we won't have roads someday, we won't have networks. Lands that are under social facilities, schools, kindergartens, cultural objects, stadiums cannot be touched. And we must not touch the earth, which is entrenched territory without the consent of the people. Today, we often encounter a situation where people go out in the yard in the morning, and there the excavator starts digging and they don't know anything about it. Therefore, the Code must ensure this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u73	Vladimir Stretovic, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u74	Vladimir Stretović, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! In large numbers, the adoption of such a code, namely, the unification in one document of acts in different areas of law, I say to experts, is a nonsensus. Therefore, what is being done and proposed in the City Code is foreseen: for example, the allocation of land in the Land Code; the issue of ownership and registration in the Civil Code; the question of responsibility in administrative or criminal legislation. But Ukraine is specific because today we have a transitional period and the legislature has to respond adequately to the demands of time. If we're a vast army of our laws today, and I already know that about 3.5 thousand have been adopted, and one classic has said that a large number of laws testify to disorder in the state, we're going to try to bring it to one denominator, it takes time. Of course, the Supreme Council and the country wanted us to allocate funds to the budget so that we could codify, remove unnecessary, excessively controversial standards, incorporate, generalize all of this in order to ensure that the practice of law enforcement is applied both to prosecutors and to citizens and to officials. Today, the adoption of the City Codex is an effort to do so. And given what we do in cities for the absence of many cities in the Master Plan of Construction, many land-use violations, property registration, property rights, investor rights, promotion of rural construction, it's obvious that the adoption of such a normative act as a code is in time. So, given these circumstances, I would like to warn the author first of all and those who will work on it, so that we don't run into contradictions, that there is one norm in the code, says a declaration about one principle, and in the legal acts that regulate certain directions of action, there are other principles that will, of course, facilitate the activity and the officials, the judges, the prosecutors who will fish in the murky water. Therefore, with the adoption of the City Code in preparation for second reading, a list of the laws that are in force today must be prepared immediately, instructions of various kinds that are losing force in connection with the adoption of the city code. Because we are very often in a hurry to do one noble thing, we forget that there are other normative acts that regulate these social relationships. And in summary, the adoption of a normative act that will generalize the rules of application of the principles of construction, investment, promotion of construction and ownership is in time and worth supporting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u75	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Look at the constellation of the authors of this bill! The hero of Ukraine, I would say, the best builder of Ukraine, the real Buddhist, the man who built Pol-Kiev, the national deputy Polachenko Vladimir Avrumovic. Former Mayor of Donetsk, former Deputy Prime Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Construction, now National Deputy Ribak Vladimir Vasiljevic. The former mayor, and today the people's deputy of the Baranov. People's deputies Serbian, Radovets, Martinuk Adam Ivanovich. I mean, basically, different factions. But they have united themselves on the basis of professionalism, brought together their intellectual, professional potential, and have actually drafted a bill that carries a huge creative burden, a creative function. It is precisely what helps Parliament to unite, and people to see that the concentration of Parliament's intellectual resources, independent of the political orientation of a policy, enables them to prepare a productive document that works for the State. It is a pleasure that today, from this very rostrum, we are looking at such documents today. As far as the point is concerned. The purpose of the bill is to create an enabling environment for the further development of urban activities, to involve investors and the population in the development of population sites, to organize the development of areas according to decisions, and to provide urban documentation. Establishing the leading importance of urban documentation and local regulations in regulating the development of urban areas and territories. Raising the level of guarantees for construction investments by making basic decisions at the initial stages of building buildings. The City Code provides for the development of the laws in force in Ukraine on the basis of construction and planning and construction, on architectural activities and others relevant to urban activities, as well as on many new components that address a wide range of issues in the area of construction. In general, the code defines the principles of urban policy, establishes the composition of regional and local rules of construction, the arrangements for the placement of construction objects, and the provision of outputs for the design of objects, the position of public discussion. The bill deals with the specificity of licensing in building activities. The faction of the Party of the Regions suggests that the session hall support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u77	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u78	Sergey Gordienko, Communist faction, Poltavian. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished representatives of the government, an extremely important document we are discussing today, and the City Code should address many of the very problems of construction. But I would like to address two issues that are relevant to the City Codex and will have a significant impact on its implementation in the future. I would like to draw the attention of both the government and the city leaders to the problem that in many cities, especially small towns, especially in depressed areas, there are often no master plans to forget these settlements. And this will have a very significant impact on implementation, including the City Codex, in the future. The next problem that my colleague solicited yesterday at the commission of the committee, because we were looking at it on the committee, the question is very important: it's a question of the boundaries of cities, villages and villages. We do not have that notion in our country today. Costs and process are not that fast, so it's necessary, and we're doing this on behalf of the committee, we're initiating it to look at government committees, and we're looking for ways to solve the problem of population boundaries, which are also going to have a major impact on the implementation of the City Code. This bill needs to be supported, seriously worked on, involving the best thoughts of all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u80	I propose to the minister of the opposition government on the issue of municipal agriculture, who knows the problem deeply. He hasn't said everything yet, and I'm stepping in his way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u81	Vladimir Bondarenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear friends, surely, the vast document that this codex is and is so varied, needs to be discussed in quite detail. And I'm paying attention today to the fact that I'm also going to be involved in the supply of proposals that will address, in particular, the problem of water dancing, water springs in the area of the barrier. In particular, I would like to point out that today we have learned to deceive the public and the authority of those who are insidious. In Kiev, for example, no water mold has its own definition: ponds, rivers, streams, lakes — all called fire wells. And the problems of regulating the firehouse — who wanted to, who put down, who wanted to, and who wanted to, compared it to the ground. This destroyed the beautiful lakes of the Obolon cascade, thus destroying dozens of lakes and streams today, and ponds on the Osokaks and elsewhere. Thus, the Codex must warn of such destruction. People lived around the water, and they got used to it, and it caused a lot of opposition. I would like to draw attention to the totally uncontrollable construction of the coastline, including in Kiev, particularly in Dniper, and elsewhere. I think it needs to be settled very hard, it's got to be a coastline that's not too busy. We have a terrible problem in Kiev today when direct sewerage pours into Dnipro, standing above the water of hundreds of homes. I would also like to point out that forests are also a living area today. This harkovian, I would say, is a forestry policy of the new Kharkiv government, especially of Dobkin and Kernes, which has led to the fact that people are just impressed around the world, as they destroy not only green plantings, but green plantings. It gives children such a vision that any tree can be cut down, burned, and the tree grows for hundreds of years. The oak forest was destroyed in the Most Holy because there was someone who wanted to make a decision in favor of, again, the political power that now has all the power. Stop it! People will never forget it, and people will never forgive it. And so I would like to draw attention once again to the need for the codex to contain severe public hearing problems. It is not just propaganda, it is not just the invitation of officials who look like ordinary citizens, but a very accessible form of discussion of the problem. Each local newspaper should commit itself to publishing a master plan for the development of a city, giving at least two months to discuss it. The rules of discussion and acceptance of proposals should be strictly laid down so as not to create special groups of people who serve a certain construction organization and make public hearings visible. They are in Kiev. These are paid special structures that perform this absolutely, I would say, a monetary but unappreciative function. So once again, I emphasize, this is a very important document, we're going to vote for it in the first reading, but we're going to be actively involved in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u83	People's MP Pudov, BUTT faction. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, as the previous speaker, I would like to draw your attention to the next aspect. Earlier, Mr. Chechchev said that we had tried to depoliticize the approach to the document as much as possible in the drafting of the document. Why? Because we have seen that, in this case, a corporate approach will only cause more harm, and we will play in the hands of those who, for the two decades of our independence, are completely hampering the streamlining of these issues. And you know, we've created a whole mafia in the heat of not solving these issues, especially land. And you see what happens to the territories where you and I live: they just don't fit in. They're losing perspective. Look at the chaoticity of development, not just the capital. I would also like to call you the prospects for the development of the suburbs. Look what happened to Kiev. That's where Mom is. But, thank God, the jury's here, trying to find something. But the obstacles to order are being removed. Why? Because there's no such strong barrier as the Master Plan when he was once with the wheel of the Soviet Union, and it wasn't all bad. And why, I'm going back to that subject. Because not only did the latter receive attention in the drafting of the document, not only from representatives of different political forces, but those who held ministerial posts, who headed the Gosplan, and so on. I mean respectable people like Yatsuba Vladimir Grigoryevich, such as Serbian Yuri Sergeyevich, such as Radovets Arnold Anatolyevich. And these people have done everything they can to make sure that you can see that they don't object to both the left and the right. The consideration of the Code itself did not lead to the rejection of the Code. As the secretary of the committee, I can say with a clear conscience that the committee worked very fruitfully without any lobbying. And the Committee has done a great deal to do so, and with the help of the people I have listed and not listed, so that the master plan of the city will be regulated and will be a hindrance to the fact that we have not turned the country into Shanghai. Not the Shanghai that has now grown up in China, but the Shanghai where hundreds of people have wandered around the latches of unequipped buildings. That's why we're talking about it. Jaroslav's telling me right from the spot. I speak, Jaroslav, and what causes such an indifferent person to speak out of place and in replicas. But the fact that this code is now helping to break the back of the land mafia is a fact. Speculation is us. But when those of us who are present and present, and who have set up a fee of 500 euros for one form, I think they will. Yeah. And we will put order in this area. The second reading, the preparation, will lead to substantial refinements, the environmental opinion, the opinion, first and foremost.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u85	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u86	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! I am delighted that if the builders have come to a conclusion about the need for the widest possible codification, we are on the right track, your honor. And maybe even then, in my life, we're going to have 30-40 codes and we're going to have a dot, and we're not going to have four thousand laws. Maybe? Maybe we can get to that. Taking advantage of the fact that there are officials in bed today, and using what there are very respectable people, I would like to say that this is positive. This law attempts to systematize urban legislation precisely by codifying it, which will help solve the better problems that are in this area. But I would also like to stop at things that should still be in this codex. I did not see any separate chapters and chapters on environmental protection or green plantings or public facilities. I want to give you a little example, without all the public hearings, without anything, in Odessa, where the Champagne Way, who knows, is the pearl, is the best part of Odessa. And so the first stadium was in Odessa, and it's planning to build buildings because he's at the university, the rector decided he's not going to support it, and they're planning to build buildings at the stadium. For this to not happen, it must be taken seriously into account in the law so that the disgrace that has been infamously entered the history of Dobkin and Kernes with the cutting down of trees, and people are put in prison. Six men are deprived of their liberty and judges think otherwise in the city of Kharkiv. I know what they're thinking, they're thinking where they're going to put the earth in that mess. You won't get anything except to leave work. So that's what this bill is about, specific comments to it. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I don't agree with the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority, I think that the law should be passed. Secondly, I believe that section 8 “Responsibility of citizens and legal persons” should be fully transposed into the Code on Administrative Offences. I believe that those norms, chapter 14, chapter 6, where intellectual property rights are concerned, should be in line with the Ukrainian Civil Code, the Ukrainian Copyright Act and the Competitive Rights Act. I believe that this codex should be thrown out and so purely lobbyist things that are here. For example, article 151 “Protection and benefits of officials of the State Architectural Administration Inspectorate”. With respect to this code of benefits, respectable, that is the norm of another law. So I'd like us to clear this code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u87	Thank you. Alexander Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u88	Good afternoon, friends of honor! Obviously, the idea of the Building Codex is close to many in this room. And the idea, in general, to organize construction as a sector from a legislative point of view, the legal aspects around it is important for the whole economy because it has a particular sector, primarily because it is a matter of state and local authorities, in terms of legislation and planning and normative documentation, and because it uses such land resources as is a specific resource that is not in other fields. But in adopting this law, obviously that it will have to be adopted in the first reading, the second reading will have to take into account the very important thing that we have a very complex legislation that may not always be balanced with each other in matters that are adjacent to it, that is: The Earth Code on Land Use, the Property Law, the Water Code, the Foundation and the Urban, that is, we will need to bind all of this very carefully with each of these laws, the same Civil Code, so that we can take into account all of the possible contradictions that may arise here. What should we do in this codex? First of all, we need to protect the builders from the downfall of officials. But not because of the control of some officials over other officials, but because of the first, we have to strengthen the role of local self-government, but, secondly, we have to make this local self-government contribute to the development of the building, not to pressure it on the interests of individual representatives. That's the best they could do. The other one. We need to make it clear that the master plan, in general, all the urban documentation is strictly adhered to and, above all, to keep it in power, but not at the expense of, once again, the principles of local self-government. Because if there's anything else you can do in Kiev, like Kiev, in other cities of Ukraine, they're too far from the capital, too far from the central authority to do anything. So we need to use increased resources from local self-government. So we're going to have to focus on all of the observations of science and science. And after quite a bit of preparation for second reading, after quite a lot of preparation to accept it with all the remarks. So the first reading we have to accept, the second reading we have to do very well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I think, and everyone speaking in one voice has confirmed the urgent need to adopt such a bill as any other code. If you and I had been able to codify hundreds of laws, we wouldn't have been able to afford it. Because try to find a lawyer. Here, I'm looking at Vladimir Mikolaiovich Strtovich was telling the truth that we don't have 3 and we're under 4,000 laws we've already passed and it's very hard to figure out. And when we worked, including I met Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin on several occasions in connection with this bill, the Ministry had a conversation. The point was to unify this code so that it would be the only one in this area, so that no more laws or more instructions would ever exist, that's one moment. One second. Here, if you have the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, they have made observations and suggestions to send it back for further work. But the drafters of the bill, including the committee, have already worked, and the vast majority of these amendments have already taken into account, so we have absolutely all the reasons for the discussion to accept it in the first reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Bill number 6400, draft Ukrainian City Code, please vote. [[11:32:16]] For 383 Thank you, 383, decision taken. We're on our way. Because it's a code, and since there's over 100 articles, we can't make a decision with you about a shorter procedure, so we're working on a full procedure, and we hope that we'll have the City Code somewhere in September-Yellow. Here we go to the draft law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4370]] The drafter proposes that the bill be repealed. But since he's already said to be the property of the Supreme Council, I'm voting on the motion to withdraw the draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4370]] Vote. [[11:33:20]] For 227 Copy that. Please, Bondar Alexander, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u90	Adam Ivanovich, honored Adam Ivanovich. [[Lord, sit down because you can't see]] If you'd given me your word before the vote, there wouldn't have been 227 votes. I asked for a procedure. You realize that this bill was once supported by more than 300 deputies, and then the President's veto was imposed. Pisarenko passed such a law. I don't understand what's changed in the coalition, that this law can't be adopted in first reading, redrafting and enacting as a law. If this authority is strong, it must seek to have its own law in each body. And now you've put it out without a vote, and you've taken it out of consideration. And what will the Maintenance Fund do without law? So I would ask Adam Ivanovich to give the floor before voting on the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. First. I took into account the proposal, put the bill's proposal to the vote, and he has the absolute right to do so. That's the first one. The other one. Believe me, if I gave you my word, it wouldn't be 227. It would be 250 votes. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich is absolutely right. I think it might even be nearly 300 votes if Alexander Bondar took the floor. But Alexander Bondar is right in one thing, that power is really strong today, but not just strong, it is also democratic. We will therefore prepare a strong, democratic and present-day law on the holding-meine Foundation, which is adequate to today's economic and political realities. And there is no doubt that we will accept it in both the first reading and the second reading. And with that power, the fund will get the law. We guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u93	A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is under consideration. [[on responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of police personnel]] [[Registration number 1439]] The bill is written by the national MP Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal. I'm sorry, there's a short cut. Is there no objection? Please vote. We're voting on a reduced procedure. [[11:35:54]] For 225 Decision taken. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, very brief. I'm totally fine. This bill does not give any new rights or advantages to internal affairs. They have these rights under the Police Act, as well as under the Operational Search Act, to obtain information and record copies of documents. But some law enforcement agencies have, let's say, secured themselves. Yes, there is article 163 on administrative responsibility when copies of documents are not allowed to be taken from the tax office, 185 with an 8 badge — when documents are not taken from the prosecutor’s office. Unfortunately, the responsibilities of sending police personnel away if they come and say, give us copies, we'll get to know each other, it doesn't conflict with their Police Act, with their search and search activities. Therefore, valid legislation does not provide administrative responsibility for refusing to provide information or withdraw a copy of documents. So I propose that we introduce administrative responsibility. It's small. And decisions will be made by the courts, by the authorities of internal affairs or by the wrong. Moreover, the honourable coalition that the police today are yours and you are looking for more violations of the opposition. So vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u95	Thank you. The generals are brief and understandable. Please have a seat. We'll listen to another general. Secretary of the Committee for Legislative Protection of Behiz Valeriy Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to supplement the Code on Administrative Offences of Article 185 with the badge 13. The article, existing article 185 in general, is an article that provides for administrative responsibility for failure to comply with the law, responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of police officers, which is primarily a matter of protecting public order, as it were, a narrow article. This article provides for the primary responsibility of officials, businesses, institutions, and organizations for the failure to provide information. Article 11 of the Police Act and Article 8 of the Law on Operational and Search Activities provides for the right of police personnel to require all representatives, all businesses, institutions and organizations to provide relevant documents and information. Regrettably, today practice shows that tens of thousands of refusals are the subject of the police. That is why the legislator proposed appropriate changes to existing legislation. The Committee on Legislative Security considered the bill at its meeting and asked the Supreme Council to consider and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u97	Thank you. They supported the beginning of the forerunner, and they also saved time. Please, if desired, two for, two for, two for against. There are those who wish. Yavrovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, prepare for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u98	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT, city of Kirovograd, 100 constituency. Dear colleagues, as I follow our work, I would like to point out that our colleague of the national MPs, Moskal, is capable of inventing in legislation a weakness that perhaps one of us does not notice, and that is where we can direct our parliamentary efforts. In this case, we have exactly that example on this bill. Who could have guessed that the militias there weren't allowed to take copies and stuff like that, just Gennady Moscal, and I'm grateful for that. I'm sure it's a good thing that this bill has to be voted on. The only thing that's keeping me from all of this inside is this. We're talking today about the attack on some democratic principles there, and so on, we're talking about our tax code, which looks like a repressive organ, it might break into a flat that's going to destroy our middle class, which barely started to stop on its feet, then fell down on its knees again in a crisis, now it's kind of like trying to get up again, but now it's just being deafened by this tax code. That's why I'm simple. Mr. Hennadia, I'm just thinking, maybe we should go over to the second reading anyway, see if it doesn't fall down again. Your good intentions did not fit in with the attempt of a new political team led by Ham Batia, which means everything is placed in place and everything under your control. But the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” in the first reading will vote in favour. I thank General Moskal again for his parliamentary initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u99	Please, Vladimir Oilynik, Party of Regions. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u100	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. We will certainly support this bill. It does not provide for the introduction of new rights for internal affairs officials, but it practically establishes a mechanism for the realization of these rights. And there is no doubt in the legislative practice that provides for the administrative responsibility of officials for obstructing the activities of prosecutors and tax officials. tax authorities, when they are unable to obtain information or copies of documents, and this has a major impact on the state’s and citizen’s interests, because at times all procedures related to the performance of these duties are limited in time, and obstacles to such activities can undoubtedly lead to a lack of proper assessment of the offence. At the same time, there are some warnings, which are that a large part of other control bodies have the same function of getting information and so on. Environmental inspection, there's land inspection -- they also have to be given more than that. It is already provided in legislation for this right, but it also provides a mechanism if officials interfere with this activity. Therefore, it would probably be necessary to generalize this category of administrative offences and to produce a single practice. Of course, this bill needs to be supported in the first reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u101	Please, Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, I cannot help but support the Minister of Internal Affairs of the opposition government of Gennady Moskal, but I would like to make a few fundamental remarks. First remark. I have repeatedly asked the Profile Committee that we do not have a new Code of Administrative Offences. The old man no longer responds to any of the realities of today. He's over 30 years old, and we're just falling behind. Debt is a huge committee. I agree with the observation made by Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, who made it quite clear that this codex already contains more than 20 sets of similar offences. There's one way or another to add them to every service: the fireman, the prosecutor, the S.B.I., everyone else, or still go to unification. It would be proper to go to unification and establish responsibility for activities that hinder not only employees of internal affairs or tax authorities or other law enforcement agencies. And then there would be less of these stocks of offenses. Another point. I want to accept the fears expressed by my colleague Yavorowski. Fear is, of course, a right that can be misused. And they may abuse, but we narrow our responsibilities. Gennady Hennadiovich, why? Because, just as a bill has been drafted, only officials will be responsible, not officials, but regular employees of companies that will not provide, will not meet the legal requirements of the police. You know, it's clear. That's the last of it. I think the law should be passed, of course, in the first reading. And obviously, Adam Ivanovich, you're a great legislator today, you're making progress today, you see what the code is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u103	Thank you. You praise me, so you'll be embarrassed to give it to you in violation of the rules. All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u104	I'm finishing up, Adam Ivanovich. So I'd like to ask you to give an order to the Special Committee, the Secretariat, the Supreme Council's Office to approach immediately, to report to the Supreme Council on the preparation of a new draft Code on Administrative Offences. And I stress to the government that it is his responsibility, he has a special Ministry of Justice, a special Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u105	Thank you. And you also have these possibilities. Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u106	After listening to two generals, they make good proposals. But now I'm going to tell you what's going on in real life. As a former producer, I know clearly how UBOP and other verifiers arrive. Papers are placed on the table of the Director-General, which reads: Please provide all financial documents in two years. What's the point? It's our business, we're in check, that, that, that. In two years' time, the financial statements are the whole of the accounts, and the financial department has to remove them to provide the young person with work. In real life, the police are increasing their capabilities. Today, Birkut is being used as a lock. That is, without asking anyone about a criminal offence, then conducting a raid with the help of the Berkut documents, and then for three months, we can't run the business just because no one was a criminal act. And here's the extra bill, which I'm saying is that the police today have so much right to check out this poor businessman, that you're amazing at how he's still working in these conditions. This law further entrenched the business sector. Any fines will be imposed under this law, and any unfavourable entrepreneur will be subjected to this law and so on. Why? Because who will determine the degree of responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u107	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u108	Who will determine the degree of responsibility? He's writing an act. Then run to court and defend your rights in court. So I think we need to be careful, not one-sided, but cautious about what our entrepreneurs are doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u109	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the bill “On Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences”, registration number 1439. [[on responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of police personnel]] [[11:49:53]] For-48 You know, I'm not gonna call it a last name. But I could see by the monitor that even those who supported him were far from voting. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll explain why we voted against it. Because of the fears expressed by our distinguished colleagues, the opposition, that perhaps increasing the militia's positions could somehow damage, somehow damage the opposition, they're afraid of some kind of mythical reprisal, and we're blowing the dust off the opposition's head and we're just pulverizing it. Wow! Therefore, so that there will be no speculation that we are, as it were, and Gennady Moskal is already our man and is specifically making the law beneath us, we have not voted consciously. We're protecting you, yes! We defend and do everything we can to make the opposition strong, yes. All we need is strong opposition, and we, and the country, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! If we understand Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov's statement correctly, he publicly adopted Moskal and promised him protection from any surprises. The draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on improving the status of the victim]] [[Registration number 4492]] Reports the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u112	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Adam Ivanovich, can he put in a reduced procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u113	I'm making a proposal to review this bill with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:52:13]] For 224 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, as author of the bill and representative of the committee, I would like to point out that the bill aims to improve the status of the victim in criminal proceedings. Historically, the protection of rights, freedoms of the individual who committed a crime that was suspected, accused, and condemned has always been given greater attention. The rights of the victim, who was harmed by moral and material harm, were beyond the scope of the investigation and the court. As a rule, the victim was already aware of the fate of the trial. The bill proposes that, like a suspect, a defendant, a convicted person, and a victim be entitled to defend themselves. The bill states that the victim’s representative, the defender, has the same right to make the same statement regarding the choice of a precautionary measure, the extension of custody periods. For the purpose of assigning punishment, an appeal and cassation report should be made on the case in which he is injured. And I will also say that this law is one of those that expands the rights of persons involved in criminal proceedings. Unfortunately, yesterday we were unable to hear the law on the right of a witness to have a lawyer, because there were many cases when a person as a witness had no lawyer, and as a result, she became a suspect herself, and then even a convict. All scientific institutions and law enforcement agencies gave a positive assessment of the bill. Of course, there are observations, but we will work with you on their second reading. I ask myself and the committee to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u115	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? There's one Carpuk. Please, the microphone. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u116	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” We support the adoption of this bill as a basis, but I would like to point out that Vladimir Romanovich really raises an extremely important topic, an extremely important novel -- the protection of the rights and freedoms of the victim, which the daily practice of law enforcement organs shows that very often these people have far less rights than those of criminals who have committed any other illegal act in them. At the same time, I want to draw attention to the existing Criminal Procedure Code. of December 28, 50 years old, as it operates in Ukraine, which is 50 years old, can be celebrated at the national level of the Criminal Procedure Code. Look at all the changes and additions to this codex! So it's really the right idea that Vladimir Romanovich has already expressed on a number of occasions, to create a working group with a new edition of the Criminal Procedures Code, not to introduce some point novels every time, to a point. Change the location. And that's the law we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u117	Thank you. The discussion was concluded. I am voting on the adoption of bill number 4492 on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on improving the status of the victim]] Please be supportive. Given that each of us can be in such an iposa. [[11:56:20]] For 311 After taking the leadership of Mikhailo Vasilovich over Moskal and 311 votes. A decision has been made. We should be looking at it right now. No, come on, dear colleagues, for the break, let's talk about this: I'm looking at what I know, because here are a few requests for transposition of drafts and so on. In 35-40 minutes, we can exhaust the entire order of the day. So if it were up to you, we'd be working on it all day long, we'd be taking a break, and we'd be working on the committee. Is there any objection? Okay, thanks. The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration, National Deputy Gricenko Anatoli Stepanovich. [[on the refinement of the sub-scene]] [[Registration number 4505]] Short-term proposal. Please vote. [[11:57:35]] For 223 Decision taken. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is designed to bring into order the investigation of particularly official crimes and crimes related to bribery. It amends the Criminal Procedure Code so that, in particular, in investigating any crime of the Ukrainian Security Service, if any signs of official crime are identified, the Service will complete its investigation. In addition, the responsibility of senior officials of local self - government regarding service crimes and bribery is raised to the appropriate level of government officials. This document is supported by a profile committee supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and I would like to vote on it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u119	Thank you. From the committee we have a word with Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u120	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Anatoly Stepanovich made clear the contents of the bill. And in fact, security agencies are still investigating cases of corruption by officials in the third category of officials today. It's proposed to add the I-II categories of local self-government officials, and that's it. And I would like to see this bill understood by the representatives of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. I understand that there has been a covert incident that would not have taken place in the state of law with Makarenko, the former head of the Ukrainian Customs Service. But this does not have anything to do with this bill, and I would like you to support it as a basis. And another thing, Adam Ivanovich. Here's what I'd like to show my colleagues is the Criminal Procedure Code. Look, we write the contents of the bill and when changes were made to it. So look at the Criminal Procedure Code. That's all the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code. I was the head of the Temporary Special Commission for the Development of the Codex. Unfortunately, it has not been approved, but according to the distribution of powers of the committees for today's justice and judicial investigation divided: one part – at the Justice Committee – is on the committee of law enforcement. [[ship part]] And no one deals with this law, Adam Ivanovich. I registered a bill that was prepared for second reading along with other colleagues from all factions and submitted it in the first reading. Unfortunately, no one is working on it. And if the factions agree, let us form either a working group or a temporary special commission so that we can fulfill Ukraine’s obligations to the Council of Europe. We have committed ourselves to adopting a new Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u121	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? I think it's all right, dear fellows. This is about adding another category to the articles that are already in the Criminal Procedure Code on matters that are being handled by the Security Service, namely: persons of the I-II category of officials of local self-government. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the refinement of the sub-scene]] [[Registration number 4505]] Please be supportive. [[12:01:48]] For 254 Decision taken. A draft Energy Audit Act is under consideration. [[Bill registration number 1036]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. He's both the author and he's reporting from the committee. Sergey Volodymyrovich, can we proceed with the procedure? I'm voting on a motion to review the bill on a reduced procedure, please support. [[12:02:30]] For 228 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u122	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I don't think anyone in this room needs to be convinced of the importance of energy efficiency and energy conservation for our nation. Unfortunately, no matter how long ago we've been using energy at world prices, spending per unit of GDP is one of the largest in the world, almost 900 grams of conditional fuel per dollar of internal gross product, which is 2.6 times, I emphasize, 2.6 times the European rate. This situation has been extremely critical for us for many years, and these many energy crises that are taking place, these problems with gas, the problems with oil and coal, are linked to the fact that, unfortunately, our economy is expensive in essence. As early as 1994, the Energy Conservation Act was adopted. Unfortunately, he does have quite a declarative intention, although recently, including this call by the Supreme Council, quite a number of laws have been adopted that, in principle, create a normal investment and legal field for the introduction of energy-efficient technologies. The availability of the Energy Audit Act is provided for in article 24/1 of the Energy Conservation Act and this law is called upon to address the issue of energy auditing. The energy audit provided for by this law has two categories. The first category is an initiative, it's a loving host subject who orders himself an energy audit. Second, it's mandatory. Compulsory energy audits are provided where budget and government programs are active. Today, we don't have such a tool, and more than that, whether it's a number or a lack of energy-saving measures, there are times when the amount of money and resources invested far exceeds the impact that these projects have. An example of our Western partners, the same Poland, shows that only under clear state-controlled rules can there be some normal significant progress with energy audits. We would like to emphasize that the law provides for the entire regulatory framework, foresees what is an energy audit, who has the right to conduct it, who licenses it. The customer’s responsibility for the energy audit and the customer’s responsibility to the performers of the energy audit. I ask the Supreme Council to support this bill in the first reading, which will allow us to fill in another, let alone, puzzle in the legislative field, which has been called upon to make our economy energy independent, energy-efficient and energy-efficient. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u123	Thank you. Please sit down. Shall we discuss it? I won't. Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the Energy Audit Act. [[Registration number 1036]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:06:22]] For 106 106 votes. There's an offer to return the first reading. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[12:06:49]] For 310 Decision taken. The question is, should be considered, the draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax for Persons. [[on support for low-income populations]] [[Registration number 4601]] However, the author of the Terehohin Bill, Sergey Anatoliyovich, rightly asks us to withdraw this bill from consideration because all these questions will be taken into account when considering the Tax Code. So clearly, we don't need to create what's going to be an integral part of the Tax Code. I am voting on the proposal by the author of the bill on withdrawal from the consideration of the law on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax of Persons. Please vote. [[12:08:16]] For 316 Decision taken. Please, from the Arjevitin procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u124	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. We can only imagine how much damage we could have done today to Ukraine's banking system in general if we were to consider this bill. After all, 10 days ago, you and I, the Supreme Council, adopted the Tax Code, which provides for interest tax, on deposits by banking institutions. I think we're going to delete it from the Tax Code. And if we were looking at another interest rate tax today on bank deposits, I think it would be a real shame. I thank you for this state-of-the-art approach and the $30-50 billion that we have in our Ukrainians' hands today, because of our initiatives we have to engage in economic circulation, increase the resource base for lending the economy, reduce interest rates, and we have to involve them through the banking system in the economy. Thank you for your support today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We should now consider Bill 5377 – draft Law amending article 39 of the Law on Telecommunications, author of the bill – Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. [[on the organization of payments for telecommunications services]] But he made a proposal that, in view of the need for further work, he would move, remove, in short, in view of this session. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:10:21]] For 114 Not supported. Please. Anatolia Stepanovich, I don't see him in the session room, he was looking forward to our understanding. Then, please, from the Committee of Morocco, Yuri Mikolaiovich. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[12:10:55]] For 248 Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Transport and Communications considered draft Law 5377 at its meeting. The purpose of the bill is to change the order of payments for telecommunications services. The Cabinet of Ministers, in its conclusion, does not support the bill. The Committee on European Integration considers the project not a priority. The Professional Committee considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill, registration number 5377, should be rejected. Mintransweigh, the National Communications Management Commission also supports the committee’s proposal to reject the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u127	Thank you, indeed, for the author’s offer. Is there a need to discuss? You don't? Then I put to the vote another proposal: to adopt a bill under number 5377 – to amend article 39 of the Law on telecommunications. [[on the organization of payments for telecommunications services]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:12:20]] For 1 The bill was rejected. Here we go to the draft Act amending article 17 of the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis. [[on patients in criminal enforcement agencies]] Registration number 4052. Reported by Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich, from the committee to prepare Bachtieuvi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u128	Dear Chairman, Honorary Colleagues, in the present Law “On the Fight against Tuberculosis, ” the current wording of article 17 fails to define the circle of tuberculosis patients which according to article 4 of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u129	Yuri Volodymyrovich, I beg your pardon. I'm asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u130	Yes, of course. [[12:13:17]] For 245 Offer supported, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u131	Let's keep going. Currently, there are no specialized anti-tuberculosis facilities in the criminal enforcement service to treat those in charge of tuberculosis. To address the issue of their creation in detention centres, which are being taken into account in the implementation of the State-wide TB programme in 2007-2011, such patients are being treated in the medical parts of investigative isolation if they are not to use existing anti-tuberculosis institutions of criminal enforcement agencies. The bill presented by adopting a new edition of article 17 of the Law on the Prevention and Diseases of Tuberculosis removes contradictions that improve the norms that are now in force in dozens of legal acts, which highlight instructions and so on. The main purpose of the adoption of the new article 17 is to ensure that health care is provided to those in charge of tuberculosis. The bill focuses primarily on guaranteeing the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to protect their lives, health, and health care for all who are in custody. And the main thing is prevention. Because it is this category that is the largest carrier of such a dangerous disease as tuberculosis. Ukraine’s adoption of the law is in the interests of the state and society. It is also regulated by international, European legislation. And including, as I said before, many cases have created prevention for this dangerous disease. The committee of the department's profile and conclusions, they're also positive. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u132	Thank you. From the committee, please, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bahechev, head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! This bill was considered by our committee a year ago. And then we supported it, but given that our committee, the people's deputies of Bacheva and Raisa Nikolaevna Soročin-Kirilenko have prepared a completely new bill, a new edition on combating tuberculosis, which is also on the agenda today and will be presented to you. Therefore, today the position of our committee is not to support this bill of the People's Deputy Prokopchuk. But all that they are asked to do is be rational about the second reading of our bill in a new draft to unite and all this will be clearly taken into account. And it's understandable that it's appropriate to take serious epidemics, but it's a huge cost, and today it's completely unrealistic, because SIZO is in cities that are located in limited areas where there is no possibility of building individual buildings and of course they can't. There could be an isolated compartment for tuberculosis patients. And secondly, the fact that capital construction is a huge financial cost, which is also unacceptable today, is a huge amount, about 700 million bracelets. Therefore, this bill requires further elaboration and, of course, we will join together on second reading, and our colleague fully agrees. [[4052]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sign up for the discussion. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u135	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Honourable National Deputies, Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopčnik's initiative on the legislative provision of health care for patients with tuberculosis in custody and those in the Department's facilities deserves attention because today 30 percent of the people in these institutions are TB patients and usually those who are released from the Department's detention facilities are the main source of the spread of tuberculosis infection in Ukraine, which is taking a really dangerous pace. At the same time, it can be said that all of these proposals by Yuri Volodymyrovich are included in Bill 6037, which we will be considering today in the Parliamentary Hall. And where they're normalized at a more modern level according to the charter. Before the Convention, more faithfully, the protection of citizens' rights. So, in fact, the legislative initiative is right, the legislative initiative deserves attention, but once again I say that it is regulated by another law, 6037, where the issue of aiding patients with tuberculosis is more comprehensively addressed. So all of these proposals, I think Yuri Volodymyrovich will submit to that law, and his proposals can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u137	Sulkowski, Party of Regions, Plainshine. I really support the previous two speakers, and I particularly support the head of the Committee of Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachevi, who is an extremely expert in these matters. And she's always worked on the laws, and we've always supported it. And thanks to God, to this day little medicine comes out of this difficult situation. Although there is still a great deal to be done about correcting laws and drafting new laws. That's why I'm supporting Aunt Dmitry. Should we really consider, if there is, and I'm sure there is, because he and my countryman, Yuri Volodymyrovich, how can I not support him too? I think we really need to take all the proposals into account in the draft law that we're going to be considering right now, 6037. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u138	Please, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u139	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Well, what I'm saying is, after this bill, it's about combating tuberculosis in criminal enforcement agencies, and that's a good point. However, I cannot ignore the novels contained in the bill that apply to health institutions, public utilities. This is where the novices raise great doubts. In particular, it is suggested that non-citizens who are illegally present in the territory of our country and who are suspected of being ill with tuberculosis, because such a militiaman will obviously not diagnose them to be treated alongside Ukrainian citizens in our institutions. Imagine a system when an illegal Ukrainian is detained somewhere in Belgium or Germany and placed in a German hospital to be treated. Is it that we are richer than the countries of Western Europe? Such ones need to be deported as soon as possible, and there are completely different systems. Another novelty, which is also provided for in this bill, is that a hospital, a municipal, a city, or a district hospital is offered as a place of detention under administrative arrest. If he is sentenced to 15 days, he shows signs of cold, cough, and suspicion of tuberculosis. Well, that can't be acceptable either. Therefore, this part of the bill, which deals with the Ukrainian health system, is certainly not acceptable. In the other part, when it comes to correctional work, there's a lot of rationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u140	Thank you. The discussion was concluded. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending article 17 of the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis. [[Registration number 4052]] [[12:22:58]] For 132 The law is not supported. Considered rejected. We're going to consider a bill amending the Law on TB. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6037]] Please, Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry. I'm taking a brief motion. [[12:23:35]] For 241 Decision taken. Please, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! To your attention, the bill is essentially a new edition of the current Tuberculosis Control Act adopted almost 10 years ago on 5.07.2001. During this period, the world has significantly changed its approach to the legal regulation of tuberculosis issues, but not only has this made us review the existing tuberculosis law, but the main reason of course is the desire to reverse the negative trends in the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, which we have seen for almost 20 years. According to the stats, think about it! In 1995, the incidence of tuberculosis in Ukraine was 41.7 per 100,000 population. Finally, in 2009, the figure was 72.7 per hundred thousand people, i.e. almost doubled. Some 40,000 new cases of tuberculosis continue to be registered in the country annually. Thousands of people die every year, and in the last ten years, 80,000 Ukrainians have become disabled and over 100,000 have died of tuberculosis. On the basis of the criteria of the WHO European Bureau, Ukraine is now classified as a group of countries with a high level of tuberculosis disease and takes second place in Europe in a chemically resistant form of tuberculosis, a form that will almost never be cured of the disease; they are the source of life-long transmission of the disease. Dear colleagues! The bill has been drafted in the light of the current one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u142	You have two more minutes from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u143	Thank you. The legal regulation of the problems of tuberculosis and the proposed drafting would, above all, ensure a balance between the interests of public health and the individual rights of everyone. Conditions for the active identification of patients with various forms of tuberculosis, compliance with State guarantees, provision of medical care to patients with tuberculosis and their compulsory sanatorium treatment. The draft law proposes to amend the current system of medical care for tuberculosis patients contained in the detention facilities of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Service in SIZO. Of the 25,000 patients who were sick in CIZO in 2008, 128 were in SIZO. In 2009, nearly the same number of 2.5 thousand people in SIZO were already affected by 170. That is, we note the increase in morbidity among those in SIZO. The bill also contains a number of provisions aimed at ensuring the continuity of health care and territorial services in the release of persons with tuberculosis from their places of detention. The draft law proposes an effective mechanism to prevent the development and spread of multi-resistant tuberculosis. It is important that the bill provides for the strengthening of the social protection of health and social workers. There is also a need for a single State register of tuberculosis patients to make us aware of the actual scale of the epidemic. This establishes a requirement of confidentiality. In addition, the bill is expanded, and a growing number of persons are subject to preventive measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u144	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Are they desirable? Please sign up. Please, Grigorovich Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u145	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs! Sounded by the head of the committee by Aunt Dmitry's Bachelor's Statistics that 10 years in a row from the old edition of the Tuberculosis Act, the result of almost twice as many patients is that we need to fundamentally change our approach. And we should certainly start with an updated legislative base that takes into account both the voter register and the resistance forms, and the range of citizens, and the preventive measures, that is to say, we should start with the legislative base. The bill that's been drafted is exactly what it's doing. It's complex, it's updated, it's realistic, because it covers the realities that have been painted in the last decade. In view of this, I would like not only as the secretary of the committee, but from the faction “Our Ukraine” to stress that this bill should be supported by the entire Parliament. And this should be such a general parliamentary consensus in favour of what is called the "national interests of Ukraine" – it is indeed an epidemic of tuberculosis, it is a threat to Ukraine's national security, it is an internal factor, an internal factor. And Parliament must give a unanimous, joint and, I would say, such a civil response to that challenge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u146	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Please, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u147	Yuri Prokopchuk, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", "Batakščina" party, Ravenščina. I want to say that, in fact, this bill also covers the issues that were highlighted in my bill. They just need to be detailed because, unfortunately, today the places of deprivation and the instigators are the largest plantations of this dangerous disease. And in general, we need to get back into this disease prevention system right now, because only in Equality, more than half of the anti-tuberculosis facilities -- the Corytic anti-tuberculosis dispenser, in the Island Region, in Dubne -- are simply destroyed, re-profiled, where they say the rest bases or anything, so it needs to be restored. Tuberculosis is a very dangerous disease. And, of course, he needs to fight now, not as an epidemic, but as a pandemic. Because especially in the northern regions and in areas where there is a serious problem, these are virtually all affected by this dangerous disease. I support the bill of colleague Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachtejeva and Sorochinska Raisa Mikolayovna and all the colleagues who made critical remarks, including. And it really needs to be accepted as quickly as possible in general. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u148	Thank you. Yes, please, from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Ministry of Finance, what are your suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u149	The Ministry of Finance prepared an expert opinion on the bill. And in our conclusion, we propose to clarify the list of goods that will benefit, as well as the list of enterprises that will benefit from the bill. In addition, such bills should be adopted no later than six months before the start of the budget year, in order to ensure that the State budget is not balanced. Subject to our observations in the expert opinion, the bill could be adopted with the beginning of the new financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u150	Yes, the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u151	I apologize for the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Tuberculosis, on TB, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Aunt Dmitry and Soročinska Kirilenko. As a result of the review, the Ukrainian Ministry of Health supports the bill, since the proposals made will be of positive value for the organization of executive activities aimed at overcoming tuberculosis in Ukraine. In doing so, the Ministry of Health suggests that we consider our suggestions. Article 20, paragraph 2, adds: “TB patients who have been selected for custody as a precautionary measure receive medical care in specialised wards, wards in detention facilities of the State Department for the execution of sentences. And in article 20, paragraph 4, we would like to add the words: “In the event that the patient is released from the place of deprivation of liberty, the institution of the State Criminal Enforcement Service in which such a patient has been punished is obliged to bring such a sick person to an territorial anti-tuberculosis medical facility.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on the Prevention of TB, but with the fact that, in preparing for second reading, the adoption as a law there has certainly been taken into account by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representatives of the Ministry of Health. [[Registration number 6037 in new edition]] Please vote on such proposals for the committee. [[12:34:59]] For 341 The bill was passed. I would really like to assume that the Budget Code provides for the need for us to adopt appropriate legislation in the first half of the year, so let the committee work quickly. If we do not make it, we will put it into operation from the next, more loyally since 2012. We're looking at the draft TSK Forming Order number 6499. Please, Paul Yakimovich Unguryan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u153	Paul Unguryan, BUT faction. Dear colleagues, I think that many of the people in this room know the problem with the Odessa-Rani road, which connects Besarabia to another. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! Actually, we are. Now the author will make his proposals and there will be a fairly short procedure. So please stand out for two minutes and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u155	So everybody in this room knows this problem, because the Odessa-Reni road, I've drawn up here a map of Odessa County, which links Besarabia to the whole part, another part of Ukraine, it passes by a distance of 7 kilometers across the Republic of Moldova, 700 meters. In this connection, an interstate agreement was signed in 99 C.E. under which Ukraine passed a portion of the area, the land, in the area of the village of Jujuleschi of the Rhine region of Odessa on the Danube River, thereby making Moldova a maritime state, in exchange for the territory of the road, the area of the Odessa-Rani road. It's been 11 years. And unfortunately, this international agreement is not implemented. Today, three border customs stations run through all residents of the Odessa region and guests of the Odessa region who travel to Bessarabia on a seven - km [7 km] road. This part of the road is difficult to repair because it has a mixed status. Today there are very often road traffic accidents that involve a large number of cars on a very narrow section of this road. So because 11 years of this problem has not been resolved, we have been told that this issue will be resolved, and the idea has been to use parliamentary control mechanisms in the form of a temporary commission of inquiry to Parliament. This was supported by all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and as the author I received letters from the faction leaders who sent their representatives to this temporary commission of inquiry. The Regulatory Committee has supported this issue in its entirety, also unanimously. Since this is not a political issue, this question is needed for the people, for the inhabitants of the Odessa region. Today, in the media, literally a few hours ago, and in the media, information was sent that was an initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u156	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u157	That our initiative to create a temporary commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council has given such a serious impetus to our institutions in the state, as well as to the foreign representatives of the Republic of Moldova, and has finally begun appropriate consultations on this subject. We do not yet have official information in Parliament on this subject, unfortunately, so given these reports, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support the next proposal, move this issue for a week and return to it in the next plenary week. During this time, we will hold appropriate consultations with the Ministry of Public Administration, and I would like to ask that this is also recorded in the protocol mandate. And next Wednesday, one of the first questions is to ask it in order to still solve the main question, to solve the issue in fact. If necessary, to create a temporary commission of inquiry for Parliament, we will create it, which requires 150 votes. If this question finally starts to move in 11 years, and the momentum gives this to Parliament, then we're going to create this TSC. So the proposal, the honourable colleagues, is next. To move this question for a week, in that time we'll gather a meeting, I think literally on Monday, where we'll hear which is the official situation for today and next Wednesday we'll make a decision. I ask you to put this question to the vote, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u158	Thank you, Pavel Yakimovich, I am voting for the proposal because there is indeed a report of a movement from the “dead spot” of this problem and I think that the initiative to create the TSC has also contributed to this. On the transfer to the next plenary week, please vote. [[12:40:56]] For 331 Thank you, 331, decision taken. Let me make an announcement. In connection with the failure to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the term of the Interim Investigation Commission for the Investigation of Situations and the Reasons for the Effective Management of State Property in the Agro-industry Complex, established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation of 23 December 2009, I declare the termination of this commission, in accordance with part eight of article 87 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. [[Head - Ribuk, Head Deputy - Rudchenko]] The announcement was based on a request made by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the Rules, MP's ethics and security of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 24 June 2010. And we, dear colleagues, have a few minutes left to work to include a number of issues in the agenda of the session. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on informing the population about the content in food products of genetically modified organisms. [[Registration number 6251]] The author of the bill is Andrew Schlell. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:42:42]] For 304 The question is included. The proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Recognition Act is put to the vote "On the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". [[Registration number 6221]] The author of the bill is colleague Mishchenko. Please be supportive. [[12:43:21]] For 318 Decision taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Enhancing the Competitiveness of Mining and Chemical Complex Enterprises. [[Registration number 6492]] The author of the proposal is the Royal and a number of others, virtually from each faction. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:59]] For 118 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, we had a mistake, we had it. Here you have the agenda that we need to include 6447 – the Yatsenuk Bill on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts. [[on strengthening guarantees of freedom of speech in Ukraine]] We turned it on. June 16 is already in the agenda, it's just, please consider, a technical error. We'll be there next week. Well, he did. The alternative will be included when we consider it. So I think next week we're going to be looking at these bills, including the alternative, because it's already included with the machine if the one that was included is included. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Decree on the State level of 1000th anniversary of the founding of the Council of St. Sofia in m. Kiev. [[Registration number 6470]] The author of the bill is Yuri Kostenko. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:45:23]] For-183 Dear colleagues! I'll give it to Please, Yavorovski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, it was about not taking this decision because there was already a presidential decree to commemorate Sofia's millennium. There, scientists discuss when to observe whether from the time of the first stone, or from the time of the sanctification of Sofia itself, but there is a presidential decree and it is inappropriate to make just one more decision. Here's what we're talking about. Because of that, you can either reject this decree simply for the reason that the President's decree has been adopted, or, well, not to consider it. Better yet, let's make that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-30-m0.u160	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, I think he's right. First, there's the President's decree; secondly, there's not all clear estimates. And the most outstanding scientists are going to fuck it up, yes or no. Let them continue to fight without interference from the scientific Supreme Council. It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Decree against Eviction of Creative Masters of the National Association of Artists of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, we'll be back. I have translated papers. Yeah, don't worry. It's going to be all right. Draft decree not to allow the eviction of creative craftsmen from the National Association of Ukrainian Artists (registration number 6547), the author of the proposal, Yavorowski. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:24]] For 112 Not supported. And it's about the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. It's about the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Ternopil. The author of the bill is Donny. I remind you that in the 11th year, we have to celebrate the 800th year of the establishment of this famous historical city. Please be supportive. [[12:48:06]] For 338 And two more bills, please, dear colleagues. Now, now, I'll just tell you the number. Bill number 6600, introduced by a colleague. No, Fomin and Upper, to amend the Law on the Election of Local Authorities. And Bill number 6601, introduced by Comrade Ephraim, is also about the election of the deputies of the local authorities. These two bills put them in the order of the day session. Please vote. That's why you're making it so you don't vote. [[12:49:15.]] For 239. It's not a package, Anatoly Sergiyovich, a vote. This is a vote called alternative laws, these are two alternative bills that complement each other. Yesterday morning, if I'm not mistaken, after the consideration of the Podgorny passed his bill, the Ephremov bill was registered for the evening. So I'm sorry, we understand. Dear colleagues, this is the order of the day today. I'm exhausted today. The morning session is closed. Today, Wednesday is committee and faction work. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
