ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:19]] There were 402 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to our 16-hour schedule, we are considering a draft decree on the appointment of local councils and village heads in 2010. [[October 31, 2010]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Valérie Konovaluk, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Omelchenko Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. In view of the honourable colleagues that you and I have planned today to work productively and for a long time, I will make your proposal for consideration. Consider this question by a simplified procedure. [[16:01:33]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, please. And invite the deputies to the session room so that they can work productively.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u2	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable members of the people, is submitting to your consideration a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of alternate elected deputies of local councils and rural, village, city heads in 2010 is submitted for implementation of section 30 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft decree proposes that local councils and village, village, city heads be appointed to the next election on October 31, 2010. In addition, it is proposed that the Central Electoral Commission, in accordance with its legislation, should take steps to finance and provide material and technical support, prepare and conduct such elections at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within the limits of its mandate, take urgent measures to ensure the financing of the next election of local councils and village, village, city heads at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. With the adoption of a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of alternate elections for local councils and rural, village and city heads, the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to participate in local self-government will be exercised in 2010. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the session hall in the first reading, and in general the bill in question, and thus to light the green light on the way to preparing for another election at the regional level on October 31st this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergei Gordienko from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u4	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 30 June 2010 reviewed the draft Ordinance on the appointment of alternate elected deputies of local councils and rural, village, city heads in 2010, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Konovaluk and Chechtev. [[October 31, 2010]] [[Registration number 6592]] In considering the bill at the meeting of the deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, a majority of the votes adopted the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill in the first reading, to base and vote for it as a whole. In doing so, I would like to point out that at a meeting of the Committee of the People's Parliament of Ukraine, Sergey Podgorny was given a separate opinion on a draft decision that he expressed a desire to speak on this issue in plenary session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u5	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to express your point of view, please sign in on this. [[B in m in s a l in]] About what? Now, come on in, dear fellows. Everyone will express their point of view, please calm down. Vladimir Kurilo, please. The high priest will speak for him. Next, Koval Viacheslav. No, it's got to be recorded here. Now who's plus, and two minus will come out, and everything will be fine. What are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address our voters on what we are going to have today in this room and what happened on the committee yesterday. Frankly, I thought that with the adoption of the Regulation Act we would act on the Rules. Unfortunately, yesterday, indeed, the committee considered this issue without preparation without prior consideration on the subcommittee, more than that, without any conclusions of scientific and scientific management or anything like that. Even before that, the committee had also considered several decrees. In fact, one of them was also the author of Konovaluk, and he made a unanimous decision to reject these decisions. This decision is no different than those, but today it needs to be adopted, so to speak, Mr. President. But there is a decision of the Constitutional Court of June 4, 2009. I will quote only one paragraph in this decision: “The Constitutional Court has decided: firstly, the position of the part of the first, second article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes the terms on which the deputies are elected to form the rural, rural, urban, district, district council or rural, village, city head, should be understood that, in the selection of these persons in the envisaged elections of the Constitution, there is a corresponding 5-year and 4-year term of office for them.” This suggests that today the mandate of deputies of council has been set up for five years. So I am the big question: Can we make a council election today or not? Unfortunately, no answers are available today. There's a second question. We had a bill with you that was passed and sent to the Constitutional Court 4177, and there's a conclusion of the Constitutional Court, which says that in the part where you and I have a term of office for five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u7	Finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u8	And according to the terms of 5 years, it's only for those chosen in the next election. And it was done to remove the vacchanal that is today. We should have acted with you logically and considered these changes, and then only to determine the date of the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u9	Thank you. Viacheslav Koval, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Blackwolf, NS-N faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u10	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear friends, it is unfortunate that this Hall has voted with the efforts of a coalition majority to shorten the procedure for such an important issue. It seems to me that if we're going to vote on these issues in a reduced procedure, and then the Elections Act, and then everything else, there's obviously no democracy, no order, no common sense at all in this country. That's the first one. The other one. I wanted to ask the reporter a question. In fact, how many were we choosing today as city heads and deputies? If we chose them for four years, why do we appoint elections after 4.5 years? If we assigned them for five years, why did we choose them? We've been choosing for five years, why are we re-electing them for six months earlier, are these out of turn? Perhaps if we didn't spend our time in May the elections, by the way, a decision that was totally illegally annulled by the same ruling majority, then maybe we should have made changes to the Constitution, written: you want to spend October 31st -- you should have made changes to the Constitution, you had time. Deputies and city heads are chosen for 4.5 years. Then set any date. And so it's ridiculously absolutely, the proposal to hold the October 31st election. So, I urge everyone to vote against this decision, we need to make changes to the Constitution, obviously the last time we voted for it, we didn't have to put a date there, both to the queue and to the queue, because it wasn't constitutional, we didn't have to set a legal variable to the Constitution. But it took five years or four and a half, then either October 31st, if 4.5, or March 27, 2011, if five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u11	Dear colleagues! Who is the one from the faction who did not take advantage of the right to speak? One minute, we made a deal, calm down. Who hasn't come out of the factions yet? None. Please, after a minute, Yuri Klukkowski, then Anatoly Gritsenko. All right, good fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u12	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm paying attention to the Head of the Supreme Council, which is starting to focus on the "Council" electronic system, I'm asking for two minutes, I'm writing "against" but somehow my last name didn't shine on the board, no "against" light. System.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u13	I give you the information right now, Yuri Bogdanovich, one minute, I give you the information. Unfortunately, there is this recording procedure: from a faction one can speak either “for”, or “against” if a person is registered “for”, he can no longer register and speak “against”. And you don't have to talk about magic, because you know, unfortunately, that's the system. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u14	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Read the Rules carefully, there is no such thing. But I'm going to keep going, and I want to draw my colleagues' attention, not on the 31st of October, but on the content of this decision. Please tell me, how will the Cabinet of Ministers be able to allocate funds from the state budget without making any changes to the state budget? Because it's not about 10 or 20 million, it's about the sum of the order of billions, because it's about all the elections across Ukraine, it's a huge amount of money. And the second question. Please tell me, we've assigned local elections everywhere, haven't we? If not everywhere, where are they not assigned? Because the Supreme Council is to appoint these elections, not to adopt a framework decision, and then someone will decide where or where to run the elections. I'm talking to colleagues who represent the Zaporozhye region. The opposition district council has a constitutional five - year term, since its first session took place in June 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u15	Finish it, just calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u16	Thus, for many local governments, we shorten their constitutional term of office, thereby violating the right of citizens to local self - government. Therefore, such a decision simply cannot be made, a decision must be taken that clearly states where the elections are held and where the elections are not held. What is more, there is a great sense of first accepting changes to the Constitution, which would allow really everywhere to hold local elections at the same time and only then to set a date. By the way, today’s vote on the election date means that the heads of rural, rural, urban, we will again be chosen for only four years, not five years. And once again, there will be chaos in the system of local self-government, maybe this chaos is convenient to someone. But consider whether we really give people the right to local self - government. Again, I think it's the exact opposite of the content, of this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u17	Thank you. Anatoly Grizzenko, N.U.S. faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I am aware that the coalition's decision will be made today because that's what the Bank said. But I want to warn you that to stop playing the thimbles, let's remember, a little back-view and forward what happened? In February, you violated the constitutional rights of 46 million citizens by your decision -- you denied them the right to choose and to be elected on May 30. Then there was a joint effort to find a way back into the Constitution and on September 7th to make changes, to conduct elections all over the place normally, logically, and then to set a date -- November, December is no problem. This path is not completed. Why? Why are they in such a hurry? Obviously, I think for everyone that the honeymoon of taking control of the chair ends, and there's no economic success, it's wanted very quickly, and that's why the law changes accordingly. But it won't be that long, and I suggest you not take any more of these steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! Sulkovian Paul. There was no faction, no microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! You know, when you're listening, you've been yelling before that you've canceled the elections to the local authorities, today they're yelling that they've been mistreated, they're calling out that there's no money. Ladies and gentlemen, why worry today, you are now in opposition to no funds. The government will make a budget proposal, they will find money, and everything will pass the election. And there will be order at this end. So I'm making an offer, I have to stop this discussion by Volodymira Mikhailovich, I have to hold the election, and I have to find the money, and there will be order in the country. Therefore, put to the vote and we accept this bill “yes”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u21	Ruslan Knyazevich, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, in fact, just so you know that we're not in any way solving the issue in fact, we're just conserving this problem. And in either 4 or 5 years, we're going to have another question about when we're going to run the local elections. Because the problem is that we have a little mystery about what is a violation of the date defined by the Constitution on local elections. In fact, there's no date in the Constitution for local elections, not in the 1996 edition, not in the 4th year, because it can't be defined there. The point is, it's good to determine a date by reference to presidential or parliamentary elections, because it's clear when the President and Parliament are empowered by appropriate inauguration, by making an oath. Local authorities do not know when one day. One day you cannot take an oath because you realize that there are certainly tens of thousands of councils out there that are not valid, that there must be re-elections, and so forth. So the question is, we'll go back to him in the next election. So now we have a unique chance of making changes to the Constitution once and for all. Because if we're even now, of course, going the way that the Constitutional Court is proposing, we're only in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the question before the vote. People’s deputies who spoke, both Upper and Crnowolenko, and Klukkowski, are right in connection with the fact that when we make a decision and do not adopt Bill 4177, we do not limit the terms of our positions as heads and as well as members of the local councils, we will have a conflict, I am not talking about a problem that we have failed to reconcile with the time-limits. At the same time, I must tell you that on the Conciliation Council we discussed this issue, and the head of the Legal Political Committee, Sergio Mishchenka, was proposed: submit this bill, we will vote it by at least 226 votes, and then we will return to it in the fall to adopt it by 300 votes, at least 300 votes. So I think we need to bring this problem back to normal at the same time. Now, as I've just spoken to my colleague Sergey Mishchenko, when he's ready, we're going to look at this problem, or we're going to partially adjust the issue of the term of headship, as well as the deputies of the local councils. So please give a decision to the committee on this matter. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Please listen carefully. I propose to put a draft ruling to the vote in such an order, and I will announce the content of this ruling. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of alternate elections for local councils and rural, village and city heads in 2010. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Assigning the next election to local councils and village, village, city heads on Sunday, October 31, 2010. The other one. This decision takes effect from the day it was published. Paragraphs 2 and 3, which contain, there, the positions on the errands, they automatically have, one minute, they have to be automatically executed, well, why should we accept that? Well, don't, please. I'm voting on draft regulation 6592 in the draft proposed by the authors. I'm saying, in the editors' proposal, what do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u24	The point is that Crimean autonomy determines the election date itself. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, since my proposal, I see, does not find support to avoid confusion, I put to the vote the draft ruling in the text proposed by the author. [[Registration number 6592]] Please vote. [[16:21:53]] For 247 I'll take the order. The factions. Region Party – 169, "Block of Timoshenko" – 20, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 9, communists – 26, "Block of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 4. I would like to announce that this is a matter of registration: 6600, 6601, 6601-1 are draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads (the introduction of open lists of candidates for deputies from local party (blocks) organizations and the improvement of the procedure for recalling local council members) and the draft Act on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of Local Councils, Rural, Village, Urban Heads). Reporters are Upper Sergey Petrovich, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, Jacinuk Arseny Petrovich. The correspondents are Demčishen Vasil Vasilovich and Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u25	Dear voters! I'm not deliberately addressing most of this room today, because I already know what will be the result, based on how this issue is being deepened through the Supreme Council. The bill I am presenting was introduced to the Supreme Council on Friday and registered at number 6583-1 on Friday. But there was only a number on the site, there was no text. On Tuesday alone, another issue of this bill appeared, 6,600 and a text. Why? This is not a question for me as the author, but perhaps for the Apparatus or for the leadership of the Supreme Council, who thinks it's possible to manipulate the bill of MPs from the opposition. [[The voice from the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u26	You'd be screaming in Ternopolis. And now for the bill essentially. So this bill actually presents in our electoral legislation a classic system for open-ended elections. There are no open lists, as the Party of Regions calls its majorist system, and really classic open lists. What is proposed? The party's listing confirms its order. The electorate who comes to the polls picks a political party and puts a branch across from that party on the ballot. And then in this same bulletin, against the words that I'm choosing from the selected list, the number is the number of the candidate he likes in this party. So it's the voter who's going to be in the final version of the party list under number 1 and who's going to be under number 120. This is what voters today expect, that they want to choose not only the political power responsible for certain processes in their region but a specific MP. The law stipulates that if two candidates vote in the same number, the above will be the one put forward by the political party. The law stipulates that if the electorate does not want to be named as a particular candidate, he will vote only for the political party and his vote will count as a party and will affect the percentage of the party's participation in a particular region, but will not affect the movement of candidates. It's a candidate's right, he has to determine for himself. And another very important moment in this bill. Today, voters say that you've taken the deputy away from us, we don't influence him, we can't call him off. Therefore, in this law in “final positions”, I propose to amend the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on the recall procedure]] To make it, indeed, dependent solely on the electorate, so that the territorial election commission, which today depends on the deputies of one council or another, performs only one function, will issue a signed letter, the form of a signed letter. What procedure is proposed here? If the MP fails to fulfil his obligations, does not run an electoral program, does not take part in the council’s work, does not take part in the work of a permanent commission. The electorate only initiates this issue before the party organization that put this candidate out. The party organization, after hearing the voter’s arguments, forms an initiative group, appoints the leader of this initiative group. The initiative group goes to the election board and gets the form of a signed letter. Having gathered the necessary number of voters, once again, the congregations or a conference of a party organization. They check the number of these signatures and decide to withdraw. This decision, along with the signatures collected, is sent to the territorial election commission. And it's only supposed to do two functions: either register the next deputy if it's on the list, or assign an election if it's an election or a recall of a village council member. Thus, the goals, the efforts that the electorate is telling us today to approach the MP, we are doing in this law. I believe that this law is in dire need of our electorate today. And what I'm going to say is that it's the open lists, they've been going on for two years, and for two years, all the political leaders are saying that we're behind open lists. For some reason this law is lacking in courage. Perhaps they fear that the electorate may still find a party candidate unattractive. And party leaders don't want to lose influence. And they don't want to lose the opportunities they have in creating these lists. That's why I think it's this bill that needs our electorate today and I'm asking him to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the reporter. No, no, you can't do that. Please, have a good time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Names of the national MPs, please. National Deputy Nadosha, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u28	I did a little math here, you know what it's like? On average, some 60 parties have registered at the city level. 60 parties average 60 candidates per deputy, divided by 2, comes out 30 deputies, multiplied by 60, and we have a thousand 800 names in an interval of one and a half centimeters, we have a six-inch newsletter. Do you think that many people will read this newsletter, or will many people be able to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u29	Frankly, I think that people like you who haven't been able to read a simple bill and walk through a committee meeting yesterday, where I explained that there's only a list of parties participating in it -- that's 20 parties could be, well, 30, the maximum we had in the local elections was about 40 subjects. It's going to be a newsletter, I don't think it's going to be more than a ballot in the presidential election, of course. So, I think you don't need to read the entire ballot at a large expense to the electorate, if the voter is active, he'll get to know the list of his candidates he wants to vote for in advance. I would also like to say that this system works in several European countries: Slovakia, Poland, and somehow there is no such warning of the size of the ballot because there is another system that I and my colleague Alexander Fomin offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u30	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u31	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Mr Sergio, it was not long ago that the words “We lit green light for the elections” were spoken here. I think that every smart person understands that the green light was lit a little earlier when the “carcase meat” began to be recruited into the coalition, and this “carcase meat” today votes without thinking. [[Well, that's the color of a dollar.]] I'd like to pay attention to that. That they themselves don't realize that this law puts them out of politics in the future, because whoever takes them anywhere, who lets them pass in the district, when they're sold, when voters who chose them in the same political spectrum don't see them in where they just perform their functions, I'm stressing again, carnivorous meat. So I'd like to ask you to look at how the will of the electorate under your law or what the Party of the Regions is going to be more adequately reflected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u32	The Law on Elections to Local Councils, proposed by the Party of Regions, gives nothing new. There's the same system that is today and which is being criticized by everyone, these are closed party lists. It is preserved in the way it is today, nothing new. And that's where the major system that burned itself is introduced, because it was brought by corruption to the very top. So, I don't think there's gonna be anything better here. The option that we're offering is, in fact, allowing the electorate today to make the axis of the known choice so that, first of all, the team comes to work at the district, the city, the area, and, on the other hand, they will choose the deputy they like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u33	Oleg Zarubinski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u34	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Sergey Petrovich, I would, frankly, if I were you, I wouldn't let go of those arrows and lightnings against the majority system because it doesn't apply to you, I'm sure. But you know what party lists corruption is, and you're suffering from it, too. But I have a specific question for you. I was personally intrigued by the norm that predicts the MPs' response. Indeed, an important norm, a controversial norm, since some experts believe that the people must be held accountable for those they choose, and after the deadline for completing this responsibility they may choose others. But you have it inscribed and, I think it's interesting. Tell me, please, when you propose, that in order for the temporary election to take place, that the response of one or the other MP, half of the signatures of all voters must be collected, right? Please tell me who's going to do this. What's going to be the signature control, because you know that these are your technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u35	In order to call off the MP, you need to collect 50 percent plus 1 signatures from the number that was involved in the election of that MP or something. That is how many voters took part in the elections, on the condition that in 2006, 50 percent plus 1 vote. Yes, a large number, but it is a guarantee that there will be no abuse by that authority in order to deprive the opposing MPs of their parliamentary mandate. So it's only because of the voters. They're collecting signatures, I already said, an initiative group formed by congregations or conferences, a party organization or a block. The Counting Commission checks them out, places them on a territorial election committee and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u36	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u37	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I read your bill and listened carefully, and I have a question about the newsletter. There's no questions about party agitation, because there's going to be a competition between programs and so on, and the voters are going to put a plus in front of the respective party. As for the specific candidates, there the electorate will not name a person, but will put a specific number. Won't it turn into electoral technology when there's specific agitation for a particular number? Vote for number three, you'll get the teto, the teto. Don't vote for number five, it'll be worse. And so on. You don't think that's going to turn into digital technology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u38	Well, frankly, the election didn't turn into a national election, did it? When there were 25, 5, "first always first" and so on on on the decks. So I don't think that's going to happen here. The other thing is that every candidate. Yes, he will meet with the voters, he will convince them and he will say, "My number 25, please vote for number 25." It's not gonna be a big deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u39	National Deputy Odarchenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u40	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Sergey Petrovich, we all remember criticizing the change in the postponement of the elections of Tihypco. He made statements in the press that the term of elections, the violation of the Constitution is the only wish -- that the Party of Regions wants administrative influence to suppress the rightness of people's will. Today, the project proposed by Ephraim introduces a majority system that clearly influences the electorate. How do you think this rule of law is going to affect what they're really going to choose, really, those people who are going to be in pain for the community, not those people who are going to be able to work as in Kiev Chernewsky? That is, by the administrative resources of money, to get people to the polling station and get the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u41	Thank you for asking. You started with a date. I'm not going to tell you what kind of holiday this is going to be, let alone October 31st. But I want the voters to think that they gave us an election, and we had one election on October 31st, which was a small country after that? This is when President Kuchma was elected. And I'm terrified to think that there's going to be a country after the October 31st election, especially after the system that you said was being offered by the Party of Regions, when it's not just the drivers and the lovers, it's going to be the bandits, of course, to the local councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u42	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u43	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Please tell us we're behind democracy, but you're holding on to a stable and permanent imperative mandate. In this case, you enter it as a response to a new edition. No democratic country in the world has an imperative mandate and has long since given up on it. Then your calls to democracy are a little out of line with your actions. And the second question. Article 140 of the Constitution states that the regional and regional level of local self-government is a level that determines the common interests of the territorial communities. Ignoring the presence of the territorial community in a council, in this case at the district level, is a violation of the Constitution. How does your law solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u44	First question about the recall. I want to point out that most countries today, yes, really don't have a recall procedure. But they didn't go there for 20 years, but centuries before we had an elementary political and legal culture. Sadly, there is no political or legal culture today. And that's why today we have a term like "tagged" we have a coalition, a "touch" and all that. I think that for a transitional period, however, our legislation needs such a mechanism as feedback. But this is an appeal to the electorate. I say again, we need to raise 50 percent of the voters who came to the election when these deputies were elected. That's a very large number. And that's the number of signatures you can only collect when a deputy actually stands for, let alone. As for the presentation to the district council, the district council of representatives of the communities. Unfortunately, this bill does not apply for a few more points either. I agree with you that we need to solve this problem. And I think this problem would have been solved if we had.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u46	The Electoral Codex was considered. And that's what the Electoral Code provides. Given the simple and simple terms that we have left to hold the elections, even if it is the brothers and March, as we planned in this room, when we voted 400 votes for the changes to the Constitution, it was simply impossible to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u47	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Demcišen Vasil Vasilovic. Please. No, there are two different co-reporters. And then the next one will be a reporter and a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In attendance. I would like to inform you first of all that yesterday, June 30th, at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, two bills were discussed aimed at improving legislation on local elections. The first was the bill of the Ukrainian National Deputy Efraemova Alexander Sergiyyovich, which proposed the adoption of the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Autonomous Crime, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, in a new edition. [[Registration number 6601]] It will be presented in the session room later. The second is a bill amending the current Ukrainian law on the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine to Podgorny and Fomin. [[on the introduction of open lists of candidates to the MPs from local organisations, parties, blocks and the improvement of the procedure for recalling members of local councils]] [[Registration number 6600]] Such a sequence of legislative proceedings at committee meetings was caused by the absence of a conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority for Bill No. 6600, submitted to Podgornim and Fomin. The committee considered the bill without the conclusion of the administration and established that the bill proposed to introduce open lists of candidates for the local elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils, which the authors believed would ensure openness and transparency in the formation of lists of candidates for the election and the responsibility of the electorate in organizing its electoral law. During the discussion at the meeting of the People's Deputies and members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, taking into account that a draft law on the local elections of the People's Deputies of Ephraim had been previously supported, the majority of the votes had endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the election of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Urban Heads on the introduction of open lists of candidates to deputies from local organizations, parties, blocs and improvements in the procedure for recalling local councils from 29 June 2010, submitted by the National Deputies of Ukraine to Upreach and Fomin in the consideration of the first reading, to reject. [[Registration number 6600]] At the same time, members of the committee were invited to consider the possibility of taking into account certain provisions of the bill submitted by the People's Deputies to Podgorny and Fomin when working on the second reading of the draft Law of Ukraine submitted by the People's Deputies of Ephraim. [[Registration number 6600]] [[Registration number 6601]] And to conclude, today, the committee's conclusion on the bill under consideration in the sessional room was not handed out precisely because of the absence of the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the head of the subcommittee. It's a recording. May I have the names of the national MPs, Anatoly Matvienko, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u50	Anatoly Matvienko, Srp "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I'd like to address you from the point of view of the logic of the day-to-day issues, including the committee. And if you report, at least explain to me today what logic required you to consider the Ephremov bill earlier than the bill that entered the Podgornih since it had registered before and its number before. If we respect the procedure and respect that all national MPs are equal and equal, even if they represent the most popular coalition for the people. And since you yourself said that we had considered Ephraim and accepted it, we already considered it necessary to reject it. It's about content. Does the committee thus have the right to argue its position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u51	Thank you for asking, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I've already argued this in my statement, at the time of our consideration of this issue, we didn't have a conclusion from the Scientific and Expert Authority, so this is a question that we put in order, let's say, a bill that was registered by the People's Deputy of Ephraim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u52	I answer that all the bills are being considered, which are registered at this point, which even I have signed up today, are being considered. For the record, I'm asking you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm doing everything I can to consolidate this Supreme Council, believe me. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u53	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I also have, first, a question for you, and then a part of the second question. First. We're not talking, and now we haven't heard about the Yatsenuk bill, which is absolutely right, and the question is, if you do this the way you're going to do this, it's better not to do this, in other words. The other one. I'd like you to tell Vladimir Mikhailovich whether you'll continue to cover everyone who hasn't been asked any questions, we're looking at all the personnel issues that this committee was supposed to go through, the regulatory issues are not being addressed. Make sure that all the human resources that are in Parliament are brought up tomorrow. And now about this project. Will there be elections in Kiev, will there be in the Ternopil region, or will there be elections in the Zaporozhye region? Where is the answer to these questions? These bills give these answers? They won't. Obviously, there is a conflict with the Constitution, which should be done first, and then do what they are trying to do through.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u54	Please answer the third question about the elections where they took place. Well, please finish up Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you a question and here's a question. Please tell us why we don't want to make it human, find a common language here -- consensus, as they say, to make changes to the Constitution on this issue, to reconcile these issues, then to distinguish between the queues, the consecutive elections, to rank them, and then to make these pear-actions, which today is the actual adoption of the bill and the introduction of the Ephraim bill. And as you refer to the violation of the Rules, the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act was passed when the bill was passed, which was only rejected the day before yesterday. Well, how can we? We don't have the right, it says, not to be involved in this session. How were we "spun" on the Rules, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you the question. You include, you cover, you don't release the officials of those who need to be put in place, and you don't even give orders for officials to be released and at least brought to the attention of those who ask the personnel questions. I demand, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that you give the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u56	I got it. Dear colleagues, since the question is addressed to me, I answer. There are 3 bills registered and are now under consideration, which are submitted on June 29 and 30 respectively. One minute, there is the appropriate decision of the Conciliation Board to consider these bills. One moment, fellows of honor! So there's nothing wrong with this. With regard to the adoption of the draft Act amending the Constitution to regulate the terms of office of heads and deputies of local councils. I just had another conversation with the committee's head, Sergei Mishchenk, and I said, "Let's make a decision to the committee, if it's made now, I'll put it to a vote." Tomorrow we'll put it to the vote. But for some reason, lengthy consultations are taking place and the document is not being submitted, obviously other than the legal basis. As for the election, let's say with the Ternopil district council, with the Kiev City Council, who are elected to the next election. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, they continue to work fruitfully, that term. Wait a minute! In line with the Constitutional Court’s decision, they continue to work productively in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision. You and I, the honourable colleagues, have tried to settle this issue, and we have foreseen in the Transitional Regulations that when the local election date is set, all friendly lines, regardless of when they are chosen, will go to the elections. The decision of the Constitutional Court has a different meaning. I answered my questions. There are co-reporters here: Yuri Bogdanovich. In terms of personnel issues. We have to have an "hour of questions to the government" tomorrow, no suggestions on who to listen to, you will insist, then I will say, make all the draft human resources regulations, and I will put them to a vote. Please. Tomorrow we vote, now let me finish. All that's been put in there, part of the layoffs, is tomorrow's vote. Does that suit you? Regarding our colleague Arsenius Yatsenyuk's project, I announced it, and now, at the end of the co-rapporteur's report, this bill will be considered. Come on, for God's sake. Please have a seat. Honorable colleagues, and now the report on Bill 6601. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov will then report to Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk on Bill 6601-1. We're in the process of dealing with the issue, there's no procedure. Well, dear fellows, we've already agreed on procedures. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have announced, my fellow Members, that we are proceeding to the consideration of the three bills. I did it, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, one of the basic standards of any democracy of the state is elections. By fulfilling our obligations to the citizens of our nation, we propose that local elections be held on a fundamentally new legislative basis. However, the number of bills registered in Parliament to amend the provisions of the Law in force on local elections leaves no doubt that the proportional system in force for the election of deputies in practice did not ensure the proper representation of Ukrainian citizens in these bodies. This certainly had a negative impact on the decisions taken by the Ukrainian Constitution to recognize local self-government, and it did not ensure the right of the territorial community to resolve matters of local importance through local self-government authorities. The PARIS Monitoring Committee has repeatedly called attention to the inadmissibility of the chosen model of the proportional electoral system in Ukraine. I quote. “The existing electoral system behind closed party lists is bad by nature. It deprives voters of any possible influence on lists, it helps to create not as many political parties as societies with general commercial interests, it stifles internal democracy, it leads to the emergence of weak party corporations in a young Ukrainian society that is developing. In today’s electoral system, there is no personal responsibility for the electorate. Then the need to change the electoral system is determined by the need to find its optimal model. Such a model should combine the personal responsibility of deputies and the powerful potential of political parties. It is essential that people know who they choose and that deputies are entrenched by territory and are personally responsible for solving matters of local importance. We're proposing a bill that eliminates closed party lists and brings the MP's face back to every resident of the territorial community. The aim of the project was to create a system of local elections in which MPs were chosen, both in the majority and in the proportional system of nominations, both by local party organizations and by self-determination. The main thing is that each elector has the opportunity to exercise his constitutional right to choose and be defensive, and each MP, the head of the local council, as well as every political power, has the responsibility to decide on local issues and the standard of living of territorial communities.” In drafting the law, we were guided primarily by this principle. Realizing, however, that in today’s living conditions, a country where political parties play an important role in shaping power at all levels cannot be excluded from participating in the formation of local governments. The political forces must be involved in local elections, and they must also be responsible for regulating and managing a significant part of social affairs in the interests of the local population. We have developed a model in which every citizen in the village, village, would know the name of all the deputies of his council, because every citizen would vote, not the name of the party, but for each individual MP. Each elected member will be directly associated with his or her constituents and will be accountable only to them. Each administrative-territorial unit will be represented in the appropriate council. At last, we're eliminating the institution of parliamentary fastening, the institution of an imperative mandate. As the Venice Commission noted, the imperative mandate became an instrument of influence by the political forces on their deputies, fortifying them. Now I want to focus your attention on the basics of this bill. Election deadlines. The bill proposes to shorten the voting process. In line with the project, the election campaign takes place for 50 days, and the next election is appointed by Parliament no less than 60 days before the election day. The electoral system. The project envisages that the election of local councillors, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, city, district councils will follow the mixed majority system. Election of members of the other half of the general board for election lists of candidates from political parties. Elections of rural, rural, rural, and urban heads will take place under the majority electoral system. The project provides for the representation of each territorial community in the relevant district council, which corresponds to the special constitutional status of these councils, such as those representing the common interests of the territorial communities. As a result, in determining the total number of members of the District Council, the number of territorial communities that form part of the area concerned, the total number of members of the District Council, takes into account the number of areas, the number of cities of regional importance that form part of the area concerned. The representation of the respective communities in the district, the district council, is determined proportionally by the number of inhabitants. Election districts. One-maned constituencies with approximately equal numbers of voters will be formed to hold the elections of rural, rural, and rural deputies. The number of such districts will be equal to the number of members of the respective council. For rural, rural, urban elections, the corresponding one - mandating constituency has boundaries within the village, the number of villages whose inhabitants have voluntarily joined the rural community, the city. The election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, the district, the city, the council’s district, is held in corresponding multi-mandatory and one-manage constituencies of the majority system. The multi-mandatory constituencies congregate within the respective administrative and territorial units, which form part of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the area, the area. The constituencies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, the district, the city, the council’s district, and the council’s district districts are formed by a proportional representation of each territorial community in the respective council and approximately equal numbers of voters in each district. That is, the proposed electoral model of each administrative and territorial unit will be properly represented in the relevant council. The development of the project took into account the position of the code of good practice in electoral matters. Venice Commission, 52 plenary, plenary session 2002. Election committees are not formed or formed by councils. That is, the provisions of the code are taken into account that election committees are created without administrative authority. The project provides that election committees are formed accordingly by the Central Election Commission and the territorial election commissions. Equal representation in election committees on a professional basis. Election committees are formed by the submission of local organizations and parties, candidates for deputies and candidates for the position of rural, rural, and urban head solely on a professional basis. The only criterion is the experience of electoral campaigns. The decisions, as required by the Venice Commission, are taken by a majority of the votes cast. The right to nominate candidates to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, city, district councils is implemented by voters through local political party organizations. The right to nominate candidates to the country’s, village council, office, and rural, village head office will be exercised by voters through local political party organizations and by the way of the promotion itself. The right of a candidate for city head office will be exercised by voters through local political party organizations. The proposed draft law strengthens the guarantees of the activity of the subjects of the process. The local organization of the party, which has put out a list of candidates for the MPs, will have a representative, authorized persons, and official observers. A candidate, a candidate for rural, rural, urban head, will have trusted persons and official observers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill takes into account the recommendations made by the experts of the European Commission for Democracy through the law and the Bureau of the OSCE's democratic human rights institutions on the appropriateness of implementing mechanisms to monitor the election process by representatives of non-governmental, non-party organizations of Ukraine. The project empowers all Ukrainian civil society organisations to monitor the electoral process through their official observers at the same level as official observers from international organizations of foreign nations. The new legislation is a procedure whereby, in the event of the election of one of the candidates on the electoral list under the party list, and of the Deputies-Deputy or Rural, Rural, Urban Head, such a candidate loses his right to a parliamentary mandate under the party list and is considered a elected MP in a single-member constituency or rural, rural, urban head. In such a case, a party list is considered to be the next candidate to be elected. The bill provides for an accessible and clear order of prosecution, decision, action or inaction of the electoral committee, which may be charged by its member to a territorial electoral commission, which is superior to all the electoral boards of the relevant local elections or to the court. Decisions or omissions of public authorities, local authorities, institutions, businesses, institutions, organizations, officials, local organizations, parties may be brought to justice. The legal order for the hearing of complaints is not determined by law, since it is already laid down in the Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u59	So I'm done. Elections for local councils are approaching. Rachau, they will take place on October 31, 2010, in line with the new rules required by Ukrainian citizens today. The electorate will elect specific deputies. Our task today is to make honest rules for these election races, and let them continue to win stronger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Yes, National Deputy Mankowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u61	Please pass the word to Suhma Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u62	Jaroslav Suhi. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u63	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, the logic of your Bill 6601 is clear and clear, on the one hand, it is to increase the political responsibility of the party, to continue the complex process of the political structure of our society, and on the other hand, to implement the principles of the peoples of the government. I have a question to ask you in the Bill of Articles 77, 78, minutes of summation. The previous bill offered us masochism, a whole mountain of books, 100 parties, or 20 parties to raise, and from them we have to choose, put birds, and so forth. As a district commission then has to work there, it's completely incomprehensible. Please tell me what the bulletins will look like and the protocols will appear according to your bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u64	The electoral system is divided into two protocols on each issue. One protocol reflects a party list, which implies the inclusion of the number of candidates in the People's Deputies in the entire number of people's deputies, which is defined in the elective body, and the second part, in the majority district, is the vote for each candidate in the majority district. At the village and village levels, party organizations present in the Territory, at the level of the cities and areas concerned, and party organizations registered are present in those territories. This is a very transparent procedure. On the two lists, people know every candidate who goes to seniority and five people who are identified in the party list. They can vote in full consciousness for those on the list and who are represented by this political force in the Majority District. I see no problem in this matter, especially since this situation has already been tested in our State and is positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u65	Wheelchair, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u66	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich! At the beginning of the 6th year electoral campaign, an overwhelming number of Ukrainian citizens participated actively in the discussion of possible changes to the Electoral Act, and they all agreed in the same main one: the proportional system did not justify itself. At the same time, there were a large number of supporters who offered to maintain the majority system and also showed positives and negatives. Your bill has such a proposal to reconcile both the proportional system and the majority system. Please say, in your opinion, does such a system allow for the best possible consideration of the interests of each electorate and the interests of the political structure of society? And is there in this violation of human rights to participate actively in the electoral campaign and to have the right to elect the candidate as the deputy he chooses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u67	We have taken all the comments of the Venice Commission into account in this regard. Of course, there is no right to violate an entity or electorate in relation to elections. Moreover, we are convinced that the mixed system is consistent with open lists that have promised virtually all candidates who have gone to the Presidents, and we have tried to write out the procedure and vote in this law, and to nominate people to take the interests of the territorial communities into account directly on the ground on the one hand. On the other hand, the maximum opportunity for our voters to participate in the exercise of their fundamental right — the right to vote in our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u68	Please, Chechetov. Grabrovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u69	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich! I just don't understand why our political friends, the opponents, are so afraid of the people. They're afraid to hold a referendum, afraid the people won't vote like that. It is feared to introduce the elements of the majority system into re-election at the regional level. They're afraid that the people, so to speak, will choose the wrong one. When asked, he came up with some open party lists, but when asked in his forehead, "What's there to name?" “No, there is only the name of the parties.” I mean, again, trying to keep the people on a short leash. You absolutely did say that we give people freedom of choice. That's all that matters. And I have a specific question, Alexander Sergeyevich: did I understand correctly that the move would not be from the blocks, but from the parties? And the main motivation is that the nomination from the parties strengthens the clearly personalized political responsibility of the political forces for their candidates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u70	Well, as for the first part of your question, you know, distinguished colleagues, I think we are all affected by the presence of the media and the corresponding political behaviour of the people's deputies in this. I reported this bill to the committee yesterday, and we had a very constructive, I would say, friendly conversation about the innovations that are being introduced into the bill. I am certainly grateful to the people's deputies who, in their view, made some comments or some warnings on certain issues. That's why here, I think we're fine, and if we continue to work so constructively, we will eventually adopt the law that our State needs. With regard to the issue of moving away from the blocs and from the parties, there is now a procedure for moving at the village, village, self-promotion, where people directly work, at the level of regional and urban party organizations, from parties only. This was done knowingly after a lengthy discussion that preceded the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u71	Please, Zebrovsky is handing over the key microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u72	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, I have questions about the procedure for the nomination of candidates. First of all, you said in your statement that you're giving up closed lists. I've seen, for example, closed lists. Please explain this subject. Second, you prohibit the self-registration of candidates for the position of city head as provided for by law. Article 22 of the Constitution prohibits the adoption of laws that restrict citizens' rights. Explain how this fits constitutional standards. And thirdly, please explain why the electoral process starts in 50 days, and the election in 30 days, and there are only 4 days. Please tell us what these 50 days are doing and whether the establishment of the territorial commissions could not be carried out before the electoral process begins, considering that they have been in operation for five years, the authorization of appropriate councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u73	As for open and closed lists, I honestly don't know where we saw closed lists. On the one hand, 50 per cent of the candidates are nominated solely for the majority system when the names in the districts are determined by each political force. On the other hand, the political parties that publish these lists in full and in the ballot paper are the first five to stand by this political force. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that political parties have placed on these lists the number of candidates for an equal number of representations in the area or the city or areas. Now with regard to the inclusion or nomination from parties of mayors of cities. Colleagues, if we are to build a party system in our State, we must ultimately give our parties or give a corresponding impetus to the structure in this direction. And I believe that when the candidates are nominated, not only the candidate himself will be held accountable, but the political force that puts him in office will be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u74	Please, Stojko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u75	John Stojko, “For Ukraine!” Alexander Sergiyovich, listening carefully to your report, of course, so it turns out that you, indeed, for democracy, want voters to have the right to choose and be elected. You said that the deputies to the district councils, to the district councils, to the district councils, to the city districts, to be elected or to be elected, to be elected from the political parties. But please tell Ukraine whether or not you are putting a political dam here to those new political structures, the parties that have recently formed and who already have the sympathy of the electorate. For example, the Party “For Ukraine! ” wants to participate in elections and other parties. But don't you have in your bill here a standard that makes it impossible for you to participate in that political structure in an election that's been registered for, say, a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u76	Thank you, that's a very good question. You know, we've been discussing for a long time how parties are participating in our electoral process. What's really going on? Today, 182 parties have officially registered with the Ministry of Justice. As the former President of the Regional Administration, as I know, at best if we ask tomorrow the question and set up commissions on the ground and put forward our candidates, only two per cent of these parties will carry out this task throughout the territory of our State. Therefore, in order to encourage the development of party structure in our State, it is a rule that parties that exist in this territory for more than 365 days are actively involved in the electoral process in all its parameters. Those parties that are only being created and which are only structured and do not have such representation throughout Ukraine will be limited to those territories where they have only been able to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u77	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, please sit down. We have another bill, if you'll excuse me, that's 6601-1. I realized that the committee had already reported on this bill. Okay. Who's reporting to us from the committee? Son of a bitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! National deputies of Ukraine, present! At its meeting on 30 June 2010, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft law on the election of deputies to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Efraemov Aleksandr Sergiyovich. [[Registration number 6601]] The bill proposes the adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. And to amend a number of other legislative acts, including the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, the laws on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the status of deputies of local councils, on the Central Election Commission, on the capital of Ukraine, the hero city of Kiev. In particular, the project envisages a change in the electoral system, with which the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, city, district councils will be elected to be proportional to a mixed, major proportional electoral system. In addition, it is proposed to remove the electoral blocks of local political party organizations from the electoral process in the local elections. Change the order of election committees, the order of nominations to the deputies, replace the procedure for collecting signatures to support candidates for the introduction of a monetary pledge, shorten the duration of electoral campaigns in the local elections, and change the order of financing local elections, etc. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with a number of comments on the project. In particular, according to an analysis of the terms of the draft management, comments are made to the proposed electoral system, the formation of territorial electoral committees, the nomination mechanisms for the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, the city, including the city of Kiev and Sevastopol, district councils of the city. They also call attention to management and some novices that are unrelated to the electoral system. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of mandatory consideration of the comments and suggestions made by the management. During the discussion at the National Committees, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the election of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads, dated 29.06. [[Registration number 6601]] In 2010, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Efraem Alexander Sergiyovich, on his first reading, accepted as a basis. Please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u79	Thank you. The question is, please write it down. Yes, please, Stoyko, let's get Filipenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u80	Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine!”, please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u81	Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u82	Dear Victor Mikolaiovich! I repeat the questions that I asked the interview, explain as a representative of the profiling committee: is there a closed list of candidates in the bill, or is it not? The other one. How do 22 articles of the Constitution harmonize with the prohibition on the self - promotion of candidates for city heads? And tell me, please, what is this in 46 articles for “the clearing up of local organizations, parties” – what will they be disbanded now, and who will do so, and in what order? Please tell the hall and the voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u83	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, thank you for your assignment. You had the opportunity to ask this question to the author, and you have the opportunity to make suggestions that will be included in the amendment in the law, and at the next plenary session, where we will approve the law, you will get the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u84	Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u85	And I want to. Dear colleagues! I'm reporting to the official. The official decision of our committee and I want to give you further information on the results of the vote on the committee. Of the 15 in attendance, 10 members of the committee voted in favour, “retained” – 4, did not take part in the vote – one Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u86	People's MP Pisarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u87	Dear colleagues and dear colleague, you know, there's no question in anyone's mind that we should go this way. And we need to move on by the time we have a complete system of building the election of local councillors. What is more, it is vital today that we move on from a proportional system that has shown that it does not work in Ukraine with closed lists. Today, it is clear that local councils are attended by people who do not understand in any way what is going on in the cities and in the local authorities. So the work done by the committee and the authors of the bill is very important, and we will support you in your initiatives. And I wanted to ask if the committee is currently working on maybe another issue, which is also important, how will the financing of the local self-government bodies that are left behind today continue without funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u88	Thank you for asking, you did well to answer all the questions. I think all the proposals will be made, we'll count and we'll work with the budget committee on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u89	Vadim Koleschenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u90	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I wanted to ask you, please tell me when the committee was considering this bill, whether you were considering those proposals from the Venice Commission that I was talking about, the honourable reporter, and whether the recommendations of the Venice Commission coincide with those of the drafter of this bill. Are those requirements met, therefore, the bill that we are considering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u91	I'll say we didn't look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u92	Arjewitin refers the right to ask the question of Prince Ruslan, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u93	Dear reporter, please tell me if, during the discussion and decision-making of the committee, you have drawn attention to two very brutal norms that severely violate the two articles of the Constitution, which, by the way, mentions Science and expertise, I hope that his conclusion was on every committee member's table. There are 38 articles that fit the bill of nomination of candidates for the respective councils of the local community and the position of the city’s head is based on the decision of the local party’s lease, which grossly violates the right of promotion, well, to an enhanced election right. On the other hand, article 22 of the Constitution, which is being violated again, says that when new laws are adopted, there can be no restriction on the rights granted by valid laws. The point is that the law has the right to self-determination of the city's head, and you're depriving the city's head of that right. Do you even allow the committee to decide, to close your eyes on gross violations of the Constitution? If so, why make such decisions in the first place, and in the first place, let us say so, by introducing the drafters of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u94	I think I told you at the beginning that all your suggestions, all your comments will be taken into account. And the 10 votes committee voted in favour, 10 national deputies who counted read everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u95	Yes. Sit down, Victor Mikolaiovich. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u96	Dear Ukrainian community, good afternoon! I would like to start with what freedom is and whether freedom is still left in Ukraine as a definition. First. They took up freedom of political activity. And right here in the walls of Parliament, they formed a coalition. A coalition, not a faction voted for by the Ukrainians, but a coalition of MPs who had the advantage of joining a faction. Next. They took the liberty of speaking. In addition to taking away the licenses, as well as starting to format the information space, journalists began to be beaten. Let's move on. They've taken the liberty of entrepreneurship. They introduced a brilliant Tax Code. This is the last string on the neck of the Ukrainian economy. Let's move on. They took up the freedom of foreign policy. As an independent state, Ukraine today has no ability to pursue foreign policy on its own, and it has become part of foreign policy. Let's move on. They've taken the Ukrainians' greatest right, what's left is the only right, it's the right to choose. That's why the Party of the Regions introduced a bill that provides for only one -- the domination of one political power in the territory of the Ukrainian State. It's like they're building democracy. A very specific style of authoritarian Ukrainian democracy. I put the bill on three pages instead of the 208 pages that the Party of Regions introduced. It's clearly written there. Dear Party of Regions, tell the truth to your electorate and Ukraine. Divide local councils in proportion. Give 80 percent to the Party of Regions, it will soon be renamed “One Ukraine”, and give 20 percent to those parties that formed a coalition with you. What does the Law of the Party of the Regions provide? Full and complete control over all the electoral commissions that are now in Ukraine. They cut off any party that doesn't join the coalition, and those parties that can actually bring a new quality of government to Ukraine. You've been running this country for 20 years. You think you'll be running it for 20 years. It won't work! That's why, first. Tell the truth that you want a full monopoly on all local authorities because of this Law on Elections. The other one. The Party of the Regions scenario is completely understandable. Starting with an unconstitutional coalition, ending with changes to the Constitution, abolishing total intrusiveness, I'm only supporting it not to govern MPs like certain checkers on a table. And the full and irreversible path to the Presidential Republic, and probably the next decision will be the indefinite term of the President of Ukraine. And in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the MPs are also invited to hand over their inheritance to your children. That's why I insist that this bill, first of all, be widely discussed. Secondly, it took into account all the serious observations made by the Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Legal Administration. Thirdly, the second reading should be a law that does not deprive Ukrainians of their right to choose, which should be a law that allows them to form local councils in a qualitative way and bring real work to local depoliticization councils, not management from one centre, from Banking, all of them from city mayors and all of them from local councils. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u97	Please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Deputy Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u98	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, you are proposing to limit the right to nominate candidates only to those centres of local organizations and political parties that have made decisions and formed a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's a very interesting offer, but where's democracy? This is a very non-democratic law that seeks to usurp power. We can't support that. How do you comment on where democracy is, Arsenija Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u99	You know, I put the text of your bill on three pages in my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u100	Next, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u101	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter, of course you've given everyone an evaluation. You're the leader of the nation, you've put everyone in place. Please explain in essence the bill so that all Ukrainian citizens know your suggestions. And you've just been doing political training in Parliament and teaching the nation what it's going to be. We know how you learned and secretly signed those letters about joining NATO and all that -- we know that. And we can tell the Ukrainian people the same thing about what you're doing and what you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u102	I've decided to remind you not to forget about me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u103	Ivan Stojko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u104	John Stojko, group “For Ukraine!” Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Well, really, the original bill. And I really think he's in on time. But I agree with that, and I have one point or proposition. Don't you think you're too loyal to the percentages that you've distributed 75 over 25? It seems to me that it would be right for the ruling and directing party of the 99 regions today, and for their manuals, it would be 1 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u105	If this process goes on, I have no doubt that the Party of Regions will become the dominant. I'm the only one who has any doubt about it for a long time? For one simple reason. The adoption of any bill, if it's accepted by a coalition, should have one goal. Don't forget that any coalition, like any government, sooner or later becomes an opposition. So let's not make it happen that you'll then, as an opposition, go to the local elections after this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u106	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u107	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Well, you know, I have the impression that I went back to the past when you were sitting in the speaker's chair, and you were demagogically teaching the Supreme Council Hall how to live. They threatened the thumbs and looked at the questionable images on the computer. This is what you left behind when the sensors were installed. You'd have to have the money to pay them back. Here. But in fact, you've now turned the bill report into a simple farce. There is a serious discussion about the fate of the elections of the authorities to the local councils. And you came out, and you were bending, and you talked about what a bad bill the colleagues in front of you showed the country what a smart boy you are. You've been copied into three stories, and you've probably been able to rewrote that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u108	Thesis first. You're confused. It's not the past. And this is the future. And it's going to happen sooner or later. As if you weren't creating obstacles. And the second is about serious conversation. Can you tell me if there's been a serious conversation in this room in the last few months? This was a serious discussion under the State Budget Act, which was adopted in 10 seconds? Was this perhaps a serious discussion about all the laws that had been adopted? So bring out one button, one button, and point to table 251 or how many of you are there right now, and we can close down Parliament, save money on legislative activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u109	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u110	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” Arsenius Petrovich, I thank you very much not only for translating this very wise, very democratic draft law into the implementation of the Party of Regions. Here, in order for all of Ukraine, the voters to understand, I propose and ask the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to publish this very project by Arsenija Petrovich in the Parliamentary newspaper Vos Ukraine, so that the voters can see that it is actually in that pharisaic, fraudulent bill, which today represented a faction of regions, because we have long not seen such wickedness in any legislative act, as demonstrated today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u111	Let's see if we can get it published. And if they don't, I'll go on my own. Or I can see how this will be done with freedom of speech, and that will be exactly the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we stop the snorkeling here. There is a quota for the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, in those areas print everything you want. And let's talk more seriously about what we're talking about. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u113	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, after your burning match, we simply need to put on the agenda the question of coronation of you as leader of the united opposition. You don't have a real leader today. I think after your demagogic speech, Yulia Timoshenko is not good enough for you and is not good for the labels. At best, she can claim not the first secretary, but the second or third secretary. Now I have a specific question. What was the purpose of your speech today? Were you trying to crown yourself as leader of the united opposition or did you want us to crown you together? That's what we can't figure out. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u114	Dear Mikhail Vasilevich, what can I assure you? The more you accept such bills. I'm sorry about what I can assure you, I'm just translating it into later. We won't speak English. What I can assure you is that the more you go this way, the more you will adopt bills that are not just in conflict with the Constitution, which severely and brutally violate any foundations of democracy that are still here, the sooner the only front will appear against you in Ukraine. And I'm really looking forward to it. And whoever takes the lead, we will see, don't worry, we won't fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u115	Valerius Pisarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u116	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the issue of such a plan, I think you know very well the situation that is happening today in local self-government and most of all, I think you know, that today the quality and qualification of most local self-government bodies really is at a low level. We need something to raise this level and, of course, there aren't many of these mechanisms. Today’s political transition to local self - government has led to the abandonment of the problems of the LHC, the problems of schooling, kindergartens, and so forth. There are different options, including proposals for switching to a mixed system. What is your view that today can change the situation of professional renewal of local self - government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u117	Mr. Valeria, thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the profession of political activity in Ukraine is at great stake. This applies to both the higher legislative body of Ukraine and the local authorities. Regrettably, the closed lists were usually followed by businessmen and deputies who are doing nothing but a division of land and careers in one place or another. There is no solution in Ukraine to the main issue, the main issue of the school of power, the schools of power for those who should go on the open list -- I emphasize, on the open list, I insist -- and who should represent the interests of the community and know what they are doing there. If we now do a survey or something like an exam for local council members who have just come to the early elections and just ask what the local budget is and what is a “regional socio-economic development programme”, at best 10 percent will tell us what to do with it, and 90 percent will go there to do the will of the party, the party bosses and the business that goes there. So my position is clear: exclusively open lists, voting for a deputy representing the territory and representing a political party, not a cat in a bag.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u118	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u119	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u120	Fomin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u121	Arsenius Petrovich, a very interesting bill. Too bad half the hall doesn't understand that sarcasm. I would like to propose some amendment to Article 3 of the Territorial Election Commissions. In today's conditions, in principle, territorial electoral commissions are the rudimentary of the past, as the communists say, they are not needed. Do you not think that the election summary can be summed up simply at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers or at a meeting of the President's Administration?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u122	That's what they want. Only I'll tell you, it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u123	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the bill discussion. [[Registration numbers: 6600, 6601, 6601-1]] Please register with the factions first, then ask the national deputies to sign up. Please record. Names of the national MPs, please. Yes, Koleschenko, Podgorny, Gordijenko, Klukkowski and Baranov. Now, please record the national MPs. May I have the names of the national deputies? Names, you see, respectable colleagues, suitable for consideration, for discussion. Yes, Koleschenko Vadim, faction of the Party of Regions, will be followed by Sergey Podgorny. [[B in m in s a l in]] Half an hour, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a number of bills that are designed to bring about the triumph of democracy and the exercise of the electoral right of our constituents. The bill, which was proposed by the colleague of Ephraim, 6601, allows for the greatest possible fulfilment of the needs of our society in the right to vote and be elected, on the one hand. On the other hand, the colleague of Ephraim has tried to take into account the shortcomings that our society has experienced over the past few years in the use of the proportional system of closed-list elections. We have all come to realize and see all the flaws that have been. We have therefore agreed in this bill two desires: on the one hand, to increase the political responsibility of the political forces that represent their candidates in local self-government, and on the other hand, we want to achieve the political responsibility of the electorate for their choice. And this is very important because society must learn, society must raise its level, and, of course, the responsibility and level of those political forces that represent the interests of the same society in local self-government must be increased. Of course, a hundred per cent of us will not be guaranteed that any of the three laws on elections to local governments is the best. Of course, every bill has its flaws. However, we are well aware that there is no limit to perfection. In our view, the proposed Bill 6601 takes into account the maximum opportunities that we can afford for our voters today. Of course, a mixed system allows people to see a specific MP and a specific political power. The introduction to city and regional councils alone from political parties makes it possible to complete the political structure of our society and to reject the final disgraceful practice of people uniting into various local blocs, so-called name blocs, constantly saying that politics requires new people, new people, discredited voters, discredited the choices made by voters, and new elections went under new slogans, with new names, but again the same. Now, to finally put an end to people being deceived by these name leaders of local politicians, we have today proposed that only political parties that bear political responsibility for their constituents should be put forward. And I am sure that Bill 6601 is the most acceptable to our society and it will allow us to bring the level of democratization of our society and responsibility to the levels that we can achieve today, including through the proposals of the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u127	Sergey Podgorny, BUT faction. Sergey Gordienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u128	Dear voters, I would like to draw attention to the following. In fact, in the paper today, I read a comment from one of the members of the Party of the Regions, the so-called Semafor, who asked why you don't support open lists -- answered: half-dead, voters want to lead on a short leash, by the way, that's what he's talking about today, and we want to give them freedom of choice. So I want to show this freedom in Bill 6601. It's freedom, when there's no self-determination in the majority system, I'm not talking about heads right now. Just around the world, all over Europe, if there is a majority system, there must be self - exaltation. And the reporter who said here that there's both the OSCE and the Paris and the Venice Commission, all of them, all of the conclusions are taken into account, on the contrary, is just a lie, nothing is taken into account. Now it's different. Why is there no self - control of the city’s heads? There are villages, and there are no cities. It's very simple. Today most of the city's heads are people who are respected, who have confidence in their electorate, they're non-partisan, and they don't want to go to the party, and the voters support them. But the central authority that's here needs to break this mayor and say, you want to be next time, you have 90 percent support, you get into a party, so it's not freedom. That's the first one. The other one. It has already been said that the violation of the Constitution is both one and the other. I'd like to refer to another violation. The 98th Constitutional Court ruling, which said you can't put the same person in a multi-mandatory district, you're on the list, and you're on the major. No! No! We can. For us, the Constitutional Court's decision is not an order. And finally, I want to say the following. The time limit of the rise. I counted, I looked, we voted October 31st, so it's going to be September 27th to October 2nd, it's one week, one Saturday, not even Sunday, and now let's say that we could have a work day at the end of September, at the beginning of October the district conference? Will the authorities allow party members to come to these conferences and leave their jobs? What about district conferences? So it's done in advance so that these conferences go through only one party, the parties of power, the parties of the regions, the other parties won't hold their conferences, they won't. And the rest of it, there was a lie here that was the conclusion of the Science Administration. Yes he was, he was after the bill was put into the agenda of the committee and voted his inclusion. Daly, but let's read the last sentence. Other comments may also be made to the content of the project’s provisions, but they are not contained in the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u129	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u130	is impossible because of an extremely tight deadline for its preparation, given three or four hours to the scientific and scientific administration to make them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u131	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction, will be followed by Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u132	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The people are the only source of power. These beautiful words are mentioned in this rostrum each time, if necessary, and more faithfully, to cast out this authority in our Ukrainian people. You remember 20 years, 20 years only comes to an election, so we're speculating, speculating on that bill that needs to be accepted and removed from the people, bringing some of the other positions there. And it's whoever it is, whether it's power or opposition, 20 years in sync and in turn they're changing. I would like to say today, does he hear the authorities coming to power, and does it reflect what the Ukrainian people say? I can assure you that there has never been such a thing in any of the bills that are being passed, it is not even planned. Today, the people have been taken into labor groups for all, and the authorities today are afraid to go to the people and report to the people. And I can call a whole bunch of territorial communities where leaders of the territorial communities and deputies have not reported to them in the last five years. Yeah, those bills that we're considering, they're just today a reflection of Ukrainian society itself, they're a reflection of the processes that's happening in society. And what's happening is the process of plundering a large national property that's acquired in 20 years of Soviet power. The process of redistribution of property and the struggle for power is under way, for power is unlimited access to financial and material resources. Today, when we consider these very bills, we should say that there will never be an ideal bill, based on the processes that are taking place in our country. In reviewing the drafts itself, it is the faction of the Company of Ukraine that takes note of each of them and is very important. And what we're saying today is that in Bill 6601, which we've been looking at, this is our fellow MP, Ephraim, we can today, we can never agree that there's a cash mortgage and we're actually putting a property price in this bill, violating the Constitution of Ukraine. We're saying that today in this bill there are attempts to solve exactly the problems that voters dictated, which is precisely dictated by Ukraine, the problems that dictate life. So I propose to take Bill 6601 Alexander Efraemov as a base, both on this and on the basis of this bill, to seek compromise and to resolve issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u133	Finish up, please. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", next will be Valery Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! In the short run, I'm going to talk about only one Bill 6601 -- a bill that reminds me of a huge barrel of tarts in which several teaspoons of honey have been thrown into it. Maybe someone is tempted, maybe someone is going to the masochism that is being demonstrated here by the minority factions of the coalition who do not notice that this bill is destroying them and eliminating them as subjects of the political process. But to avoid being loud, I'm going to give you a few arguments that explain how far away this bill is from freedom of choice. First, try to determine how many deputies are to be elected on appropriate local councils. Look at the 16th article in the second part, it says, "if there's an even number there today, there's how much there is, and if there's an odd number in the fourth part," the genius thing, depending on whether or not there's even number of deputies, is going to be determined how much there is to go on. But you might think that this electoral system will allow for the constitutional status of district councils and district councils, because there is such a rule that the quantity composition should be determined according to the population in the respective communities so that each community can be represented. I read to you: “In an area of 35,000 voters, a maximum of 46 deputies, 23 elected in one-maned districts and 23 elected how? In private, colleagues! - list. No matter how much closed lists and current lists are criticized here, the same closed list of “cats in sacks” remains in this bill. But let's divide these 23 one-manded districts into 30 territorial communities, which still have the number of voters between 500 and 10,000 -- proportionally to the number of voters in these communities. So it's just not possible to form district districts like this. I will no longer talk about the violation of the Constitution with regard to the promotion itself. But note the extremely democratic heights: the list ends 28 days before the election day, and in one - mandating districts begins in 30 days, and you know, these three days, this is Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. During these three days, all the conferences should be held in towns, districts, and districts, and all the candidates should be hanged. If you think the minority parties will be able to do that, I think I doubt it. A very interesting norm in the 46th article is the abolition of local organizations and parties, perhaps the decision of the territorial election committees. Today, the refusal to register for irregularities in the documents provided under the law is subject to correction. This bill does not provide for any correction: you have a wrong coma, walk, you do not take part in the election. It's brilliant with a voter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u136	I calculated, just sitting here, on the size of the bets that are offered. Ukraine’s consolidated budget has generated nearly half a billion dollars from local elections. But don't worry, you don't have to spend money on the budget, at the cost of bail, at the expense of electoral taxes, civil rights violations, property prices, these elections will be held. Finally. If you think that observers have the right to do anything you don't want to do, then notice, they are strictly prohibited from any interference with the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u137	Thank you! Finish up, you've been out for four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u138	Thanks, I'm done. I want to emphasize once again, this bill, the essence of it, was expressed quite correctly by my colleague Arsenius Yatsenuk, this is a bill on the election of local self-government authorities from the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u139	Valérie Baranov, next will be Valérie Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, the problem needs to be addressed, but in the proposed version the bill is unacceptable. Can you imagine the Medical Act being passed without the participation of our country's medical staff? Similarly, the law had ignored the full decision of 500 local government leaders and had completely ignored the decisions of the parliamentary hearings that had expressed their position on the issue. And the 50-per-50-per-cent choices are like pulling half the leg off, suspecting that the tumor will develop and then cut off the leg. Therefore, decisions and parliamentary hearings, the management of city associations were that the majority electoral system should exist at the level of rural, district, urban and regional cities and councils. The draft law does not take into account the need to conduct two-round mayoral elections, so we will protect our society from the stories that we have today. When the fortune teller comes out, he tells us that he will lower public service tariffs, raise pensions, drive everyone around town on trams, trolleybuses, 15 per cent vote for him and he becomes mayor. Because the following well-educated people get 14, or 12. Or a barrier should be set — at least 30 to 40 per cent — for such a candidate to recruit. Let's move on. Lack of self-determination is a flagrant violation of the Constitution, which gives each of us the right to be elected and elected. Today, there is no right for a person to be elected unless he joins a party. This is a clear violation of the Constitution. Taking away people's rights to mayors is, well, we're going to celebrate the whole planet. There is no decision on extracurriculars by mayor. Vladimir Mihajlovich spoke about this today, and we talked to Alexander Sergeevich today. Everyone agrees, so let's solve this problem. And I hope that Alexander Sergeyevich of Ephraim will take control of this problem. Well, a new project does not solve the problem of self-government. The Conference, called the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe, decided to resume monitoring in Ukraine on the implementation of local government charters. Because this bill undermines the foundations of local self-government. And I think it's an important call to us. The draft law should therefore be adopted on first reading, but all the proposals that have been made today should be refined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u141	Valerius Pisarenko, the BUT faction, will be followed by Stanislaw Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, of course, today’s bills are not ideal. But we need to choose one of them, because the problem that has now come to grips with Ukraine must be solved in some way. I wasn't just asking one of the drafters of the bill when I asked them what suggestions they were going to make before they changed something in local self-government. All of you who travel to the district today and communicate with members of the local level usually come up with one question. The professional level of local self - government today is, unfortunately, extremely low. Yes, there's a problem that we've had our formation at the local level on the principle of closed, extremely closed lists and the principle of formation was so commercial that we got with you a lack of full local self-government, but at the same time no one says what to do with it. Today, there is only one proposal that somehow provides an answer, but it also needs to be further developed into the second reading. This may be a gradual return to the mainstream system of local self - rule in individual organs. Of course, if there are shortcomings in the procedure and there are many of them mentioned here, we have two weeks and a second reading to do so. We need to work with you. But if we don't save local self-government today, we're going to lose the possibility of developing regions for another five years. Kiev will never allow regions to develop, and we've seen it all in the last five years. When local self - government authorities were involved in building schools, kindergartens, roads for light to be found on the streets? Of course, more care was taken that how much land would be given to a member of the local government and how the latrines would work, which were also covered by the same local self - government. Today, we need to raise our professional level. Moreover, we need to look at the practice of European nations where people who enter local governments in individual countries are even trained to understand what a budget is, what a road is, what a gas is, what a light is, and what they are doing after that. And one last one. No reform of the local election order will save local self - government without the transfer of funding to local governments. If we do not provide them financially with you, no matter who is a member of the local professional or not a professional, the regions will not work and they will not live as they should. The whole of Europe and the experience of Europe show that the state is moving forward at the expense of local governments. Let's support them today and work on the second reading so that we have a normal law, a normal election system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u143	Stanislaw Long. None. Jaroslav Kenzior. Please, Viácheslav Kirilenko has the right to speak by Jaroslav Kendzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u144	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, we've had such a happy discussion here, but frankly, I think everyone, even from the ruling coalition, would not be laughing. Because you can actually refer to the idea that the MP needs to be returned to the electorate, but that's one thing. And making a local deputy a proponent of authoritarian regime and an executive officer and local administrations is a very different matter. The voters won't send a local MP to be a screwdriver in any local administration equipment. That is what this law is proposing, which now provides for a mixed system. What's going on in the background? On the background, virtually every district administration has a little less day - to - day work on how and which districts to distribute. They are looking for teachers, doctors, well - known people, budgeters, and the complete flow of chess at Kuchma, to whom a local council member is assigned. That means it's just a campaign of democracy, not a real local democracy. All of this is also happening in the background of what is being proposed to us as a new Tax Code, in which business, especially small and medium-sized ones, will be illegal. And whoever there has a point of view, because of this tax instrument, they're going to put it in the box. This is done in the background of the Codex Budget, where local authorities will also be lawless. And even the Supreme Council will not be able to reject the government's draft budget. All of this needs to be considered in the population. And if you look at the population, it's definitely not funny. Now. They say it's a mixed system and majority districts. Dear ruling coalition, is it not even honorable in this case? Why don't you give yourself the right to self-determination? What are the major districts where self - exaltation is not allowed? Why do you only give political parties that right? Why do you forbid blocks? One. And why are you banning political parties? Why do you, knowing that voters support many of your competitors, essentially take anticompetitive measures and ban the election of a whole range of new parties supported by the electorate? What's with the people sitting in the hall representing these parties, the people's deputies? You're taking the right to vote. And you call it democracy without even blinking your eye. If you're against the blocks, why don't you even make it difficult for yourself to do that? You can increase the barrier. And how in every civilized country can the political forces unite into different environments, as public organizations do, how does this happen in any environment? All of this is not explained. Because this law will actually lead to only one change to the Ukrainian Constitution. Restore the 6th article on the leadership and directional role of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u145	Please finish on such a beautiful note.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u146	To restore the 6th article on the leadership and directional role of the Party of Regions, all other parties are prohibited. And on that, close both democracy and parliament. That's how it's gonna be in a few years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u147	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction. Next up will be Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u148	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Of course, when we read these texts, each of them has an enlightening purpose. In one fact, to improve the electoral system, to make the deputies accountable to the electorate, so that people would know who moved up to see his past and future, feel him and make a conscious choice. There's another goal, the monopolization of power. And this is felt in every letter that is written there to the basic actual text of the law. What am I talking about here? You see how it goes, you see how the committees are formed, you look at any steps that are taken in the electoral process, they're all focused on the administrative and judicial system, and they're working on those who give them commands. Of course, today it is hard to expect that in the courts, especially in that court, which is the administrative court, which is headed by a man who has a clear testimony to Judge Proved of it. That he was driving his money with suitcases, and he's in charge of this court today, so what, he's going to act in such a way as to get him out of there? He will serve this authority, follow every direction he gives, as he has already shown. By this time, we could see that. Do we hope that the Supreme Council of Justice will be objective with regard to those judges who, in their view, make wrong decisions in relation to these elections? Is it possible that we can expect that the administrations that are set up from Anakieva, Makeuevka, will act objectively in all parts of Ukraine? No, it won't. And that's why today it's a law that has to make the monopoly power of one party. Does this law answer the questions people were asking, where the two Tour Elections of the Mayor were? In Kiev, the group’s one - race election, the small group of grandmothers has twice chosen the person who is absolutely destroying the Kiev. And he wouldn't be anywhere near it in two tour elections. Where is the opportunity to influence the MP, recall him if he is not working well or does not do the will of the electorate, where is he? There's no such thing. Where is the opportunity for self - exaltation in major districts? There's no such thing. And so I would like to say that it's a very important law, and today it should also scare those who are here today calling out that it's bad -- it's the minority members of the coalition, but it's calling for him to vote for it. Dear friends, you will be trespassed, you will be trampled and thrown out. But at the same time, we also had an interesting opportunity. We're going to be adamant, no candidate of the Party of Regions on any list. We're going to ask people to understand, without even getting into some deep detail there, not to miss the representatives of this party, who are staring at the monopoly power of Ukraine, which is spitting on the Constitution, violating it, plunging on it, freaking out, rejoicing at such a victory that can become a bloody victory for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u149	Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u150	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Initially, there was a long delay in introducing yesterday's submission, and today's consideration of an extremely important bill is another demonstration of the corporate style of the new "showcase" coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This was done only recently with both the Tax Code and the Budget Code. The question is, Why is this happening? But because in such an extremely short period of time it is impossible to bring into society those violent discrepancies between those goals that Ephraim has been talking about so much here today, and the real state of the things that are in this bill, which is absolutely responsible today, can be re-designed as a bill to ensure the victory of the Party of Regions in the future local elections. Because all the innovations that are being proposed are aimed at using administrative resources, manipulating electoral commissions, creating artificial barriers for other political forces. The project is provided at the district, district, city level for almost 9,000 bracelets. The question arises, and who of the political parties can afford it, just, of course, just a bunch of oligarchic clans. There is a question about the will of voters that we can talk about. In its time, the Ukrainian People’s Party launched a ban on named blocs, which have greatly developed authoritarianism in political parties and have not contributed to the restructuring of party parties. But what does the total use of blocks in electoral processes have to do with this? Because this is practical in every European civilised state. The project is not intended for the political party to register for the party program. The question is, why a party program? And why isn't the Regional Party in this project? But because she does not plan to report to the electorate in the future. I want to say that this law provides that territorial electoral commissions are formed on the basis of factions that are in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But as we know, three out of five factions are blocks. But the blocks cannot be the subjects of the electoral process. And tell me when the “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block has 8 political parties, each of which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u152	Each of them will be nominated, the Party of Regions will have one quota, and the 8 parties will have the same quota. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party claims that the bill is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u153	Thank you. Finish up. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u154	and asserts that those political parties that are today the “strengtheners of missiles”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Yeah, let's move on to the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural Urban Heads on the introduction of open lists of candidates to MPs from local party and block organizations and improving the procedure for recalling members of local councils. [[Registration number 6600]] [[of the village]] The bill was reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Sergey Podgorny. I'm voting on the proposal to accept it as a basis. [[18:14:22]] For 165 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u156	Now, Your Honor. By factions, please: Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 123, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 42, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 0, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote Bill 6601, author and reporter Alexander Ephraim. But at the same time, I would like to emphasise what Alexander Sergiyovich was saying, that I will put to the vote to adopt him on the basis of such observations: first, remove from the bill the positions that provide for the possibility of being held simultaneously with the local elections of the Ukrainian and Ukrainian national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm betting on what's been said. And then, in the second reading, you'll take that into account. with the appropriate deletion of articles dealing with these situations, i.e. the possibility of holding the elections of Ukraine's local, national and Ukrainian national deputies at the same time. The other one. Remove the provisions of the bill that provide for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine: City Hero. Ukraine” because they are not related to the subject matter of the bill, as well as the removal of the bill, which leads to legal uncertainty in the regulation of social relations and which does not take into account the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the necessity of adopting legislation to amend other laws. [[This is section 14, paragraph 7 of the Final and Transitional Regulations]] That is, the deletion of chapter 14, paragraph eight, to End and Transition positions. What is it? It refers to the fact that laws are in force in a part that does not conflict with that law. Is that clear? And one more thing. About leaving in law the electoral commission of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, district, rural, rural, urban, rural, rural and rural election commissions informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the electoral process and the results of the elections. Because then the Supreme Council of Ukraine is completely depriving itself of any information base on the electoral process, the election results. It's got to be left behind. With these proposals in mind, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Dear colleagues, please vote. You still have to thank me for pulling out what you're talking about. We'd all go to the election together. Please vote. [[18:17:34]] For 246 The draft law was adopted as a basis. The factions, please. Region Party – 169, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 19, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 8, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 4. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine on State Technical Supervision, registration number 4448. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna, second reading. Please, Marina Volodymyr. The question began to be considered. For tomorrow, all your proposals are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your second reading, you will see a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine on State Technical Supervision. [[Registration number 4448]] The purpose of this legislative act is to ensure the safe operation of machines and mechanisms in Ukraine for the environment, life and health of people, as well as the identification of tasks, competence of rights, the status of state technical oversight bodies. The functioning of such bodies is governed by Ukrainian laws on the system of engineering and technical security for the agricultural complex of Ukraine, on the protection of the rights of buyers of agricultural machinery, on road traffic and on the Code of Administrative Offences. However, these legislative acts of the Ukrainian State Technical Supervisory Authority have been broken down, not explicitly, and in the context of other related legal norms. This bill introduces the necessary amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine, as required by the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. First of all, I would like to thank the people's deputies who have worked to improve this bill. Ten suggestions and amendments were made to the second reading, all considered, six of them included. Most of the proposals made by the people’s deputies were aimed at clarifying the bill’s provisions with a view to improving it. With regard to the comments of the General Legal Authority, some of the comments of the General Legal Authority, which are of a purely technical nature, can be accepted by the rest of the comments on their acceptance. The committee. Proposals by the committee to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed bill in second reading and in general as the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and in general as a bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine. [[on State technical supervision]] [[Registration number 4448]] Change the vote! Change the vote! The amendments are all taken into account, please, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u159	Yuri Carmazin. Dear People's Deputies, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm drawing your attention to page three, fourth amendment, you just missed it, I understand. Obviously, you also missed out on the fact that under the previous law, another commission was to be given to the Committee on Constitutional Policy, the legal policy of giving opinions and court-ordered matters, because there were changes in this election law. I propose that part of the first article 20 be presented in such an editorial. “The national technical supervision of the conformity of technical equipment, safety requirements and quality of fuel-oil materials in the agro-technical engineering system shall be carried out in accordance with the legislation of State and technical supervision inspections and the competent authority of the central authority of the executive branch on agrarian policy matters.” By the way, just so you know, right after the adoption of that law that you passed this morning, there's only going to be one organ that can be in the system of the central executive body. So I don't know why they rejected the amendment, it's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u160	Please, the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u161	We have the fifth amendment counted, and it is practically the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u162	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 4 of Yuri Carmazin. [[18:22:49]] For-46 The decision is not taken. All other amendments are included. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u163	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, not all of the amendments, but in part, should be written in part. I wouldn't insist on another amendment then, now I'm going to insist, once in a while. Amendment 8 on page 10, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, paragraph 5 of Part One, article 21, suggests that we leave in good order the text that is in line with part five, article 34, of the Road Traffic Act. In addition to paragraph 5 of part one article 21: “the implementation of a noticeable registration and calculation of tractors, self-propelled highways, self-propelled agricultural, road-building and meliority vehicles, agricultural machinery and other machinery, the issuance of license plates and appropriate registration documents, the maintenance of automated accounting of registered tractors, self-propelled highways, self-propelled agricultural, road-building meliority machines, agricultural techniques and other mechanisms, and the systematization of information about their owners using a single register, which is owned by the authorized executive authority on agrarian policy matters.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u164	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u165	Look at page 10 of the seventh amendment -- the same thing you just proposed. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u166	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u167	Because the seventh amendment is before the eighth, even by numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u168	Dear colleagues! Please note that the 8th Amendment Committee did not support it, Yuri Anatolyevich justified it. I'm putting her to the vote. [[6:25:02]] For-33 The decision is not taken. So who else is involved in their unaccounted for amendments? None. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. As for the observations of the Legal Authority, which is the reporter, they claim to be technical in nature, and the committee has therefore decided not to listen to them. I am voting on the first proposal by the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine on State Technical Supervision. Please vote. [[18:26:07]] For 304 The law is passed. I'm announcing a draft Act on Amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] From what? Dear colleagues, let's work this way, because otherwise, you have a conscience. We'll work, and then when you're tired, then we'll look at another question. A draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on City Electricity is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Valérie Baranov, deputy chairman of the committee. Let's work faster. Dear colleagues! I am implementing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue the evening session until the finalization of the issues identified by the timetable. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u169	Respectable MPs, distinguished voters, are determined by the substance of the proposed bill to determine the permanent standard of application of the same electricity tariff for urban electricity as for the population. On the one hand, this is the right way for urban electricity to survive and not die without funding previously defined benefits. On the other hand, we are well aware that this fight against investigations, i.e. the solution to the problem, must be to move to targeted assistance to certain sectors of the population that must pay for electricity and any other transport. Nevertheless, the bill exists, the Committee supports it and we ask you to support it as it is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, as amended. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u171	Yuri Carmazin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would ask that this provision, including article 116, which is considered by the committee, be immediately commented on. There, paragraph 2 of Part Two is supplemented by the following paragraph: “to provide compensation to electricity suppliers on a regulated tariff for the loss of such provision of urban electricity, at the expense of the wholesale market price for electricity according to the established order”. So the point is that the law that we wanted to do good and wrote down is a completely different norm that says that an oligarch never loses in any case, makes up for everything. Who's making up for it? Apparently, the state. So I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that this 4th amendment be made to support the hall. Let us see what political forces support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u172	It's not about who supplies electricity, it's about who pays for it. In this case, a single tariff is proposed for the population and for urban electricity. If benefits are granted by the State, the State must also compensate them, either to the utilities or to the oligarch or to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u173	Dear colleagues, since Yuri Carmazin insists that we vote on the amendment, we should vote on it. I put to the vote amendment number four of our colleague, former Popov, of the National MP. It is considered by the committee to support it. Please vote. [[18:30:31]] For 244 Correction confirmed. I put to the vote, honourable colleagues, a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport. [[Registration number 2486]] At the same time, I inform you that the General Legal Office has made a comment to this bill. Please vote. [[18:31:11]] For 296 The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of information to the public law enforcement authorities on the state of law and on measures to strengthen it. [[Registration number 1448]] The rapporteur is Valerius Behbelz, secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill No. 1448 proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Olijnik and Gritzak, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of March 09, this year. The position of the project is being prepared for consideration in the second reading aimed at improving the public information mechanism of the heads of the territorial units of internal affairs and the public prosecutor's office of the administrative and territorial units on the state of legality of the fight against crime, the protection of public order in the relevant territory and the results of activities in open plenary meetings of relevant councils. In preparing the bill, 20 proposals were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading, including 3 in part. There are no 8 proposals that do not carry a meaningful load. The committee requests that the proposal be supported and that the draft law be adopted in second reading and in general as the Law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u175	Thank you. At the request of the committee, we will ask Yuri Anatoliyovich not to insist on his amendments to uphold the law. There's a lady. Please. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u176	Two amendments to the serious ones. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the point is that I propose part four of article 14 of the Public Prosecutor’s Act to be issued in a different way. The Office of the Attorney-General, together with the Supreme Court, the National Court of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs and other interested ministries and authorities, agrees with the specialized central executive authority in the field of statistics, develops a system and methodology for the sole compilation of statistical reports on crime, detection and investigation of crimes and judicial decisions. This is about what you know very well, Valery Alexanderovich, that today the statistics we have are distorted about crimes. Crimes have increased by almost 30 percent over the past few months. From the population, from the public, we're just being kept hidden from you. Well, individual citizens know the number, and individual citizens don't. As a result, I feel that such an amendment would have to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u177	Thank you. I'm voting on Karmazin's proposal, Amendment 2. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:34:30.]] For-21 Not supported. Shall we vote on the law as a whole? More Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich, we are making changes to the law very serious, I would like you to listen further. I don't insist on a few more repairs. 16 revisions. I'm telling the principles of amendment. Paragraph 40 of the first section of article 26 of the Law on Local Self - Rule should be drafted in such a way. Hearing the heads of law enforcement about the state of the rule of law, the fight against crime, the protection of public order and the results of activities in the relevant area defined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the priority directions for direct broadcasting, hearing and discussing this information on local radio and television, posting on its official website audio, video and transcripts of the session, and sending them to the senior management. I think so. I don't know why they delayed it. I don't know why the committee rejected it. It's for the transparency of the authorities and the authorities. Look, maybe you're correcting this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u179	Answer. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, the problem is that this requires additional expenses from the budgets of local councils. The thing is, in any case, when the head of internal affairs or the prosecutor reports, there are media presences and representatives. The committee therefore considers that such a proposal cannot be taken into account in this case. As for your previous remark on the increase in crime, I can say the only thing. We all know that serious changes in crime have to do with serious changes in our country’s legislation. There is almost 100,000 more reported crimes. That's why it's clear here too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u180	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich agreed. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a bill by number, under number 1448 of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to certain laws of Ukraine on informing the leaders of public law enforcement about the state of law and measures to strengthen it. Please vote. Vote. [[18:37:08]] For 251 Thank you, the law has been passed. Thank you, Valery Ananiyovich. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian codes on the establishment of liability for artificial land formation without adequate documentation is under consideration. Registration number 3134. The committee is Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u181	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending certain codes of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the artificial formation of the land without adequate documentation. The problem of illegal equipment with water - fund lands is very acute. At the same time, the legal field in this area is quite complex and confusing. So the committee has reviewed the bill several times. And in the end, we agreed on it. A comparative table is given to you. Article 252 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is proposed. Part one of the first “Intentional destruction or damage to areas protected by the State and natural reserve funds, as well as the change in the lands of the water fund, in violation of the legal order, is punishable by a fine of between 300 and 600 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens or a restriction of the will for up to four years. Part two: The same actions have been repeated or are punishable by a prior conspiracy of a group of persons with a fine of 600 to 800 untaxed minimum citizens’ income or a restriction of their will for a term of up to 5 years, or a term of imprisonment of 2 to 6 years. Part three: The actions foretold in part one or two of this article, done by arson, explosion, or other generally dangerous means, if this has resulted in the death of people, the mass destruction of animal and plant objects, or other serious consequences, are punishable by imprisonment from 6 to 13 years of age. In general, there were six amendments, of which four or more were taken into account, two were rejected. Rejected amendments Nos. 2 and 3 since they relate to amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences. But since it was decided not to amend the Code, the amendments were rejected. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. Please support the committee's position and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u182	Thank you. Who among the national deputies who made the amendments are dissatisfied with the response? There aren't any. But Yuri Anatoliovich has a point. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u183	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention. Here's the registration of my amendments on March 17th. The committee discussed the issue at its meeting on May 12 — from March to May 17 — almost two months later. But somehow my revisions, they're not much here, but they're not included in the text and they're not included. On three pages, it's my job. Do you understand? And I did it and I did it honestly. I can't understand why these amendments aren't here today. Do you understand? There are more than all of the text here. You tell me, maybe let's get this bill back, because there are more amendments. I have now shown the chairman, Adam Ivanovich, that these amendments have been made. So they didn't want to bring something, I don't know why. I didn't, because it's not on the table at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u184	I'm sorry, it's probably not for us. We considered on the committee the amendments that were on the committee at the time of the consideration. Questions to your assistants, to the apparatus, to the committee, to the Supreme Council. All those who arrived at the time of the consideration were considered. Moreover, this bill has been in the Supreme Council for a long time. It was filed in 11.09.2008, I understand, since 2008, this bill, so everyone had the opportunity to make their amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u185	Dear colleagues, indeed, there is a misunderstanding, but here the Supreme Council's apparatus has nothing to do with this. Indeed, there is a problem in the Department’s apparatus and in those who submitted. Please specify, for what Yuri Anatolyevich is showing is registered there on time. So, come on, this is a technical question, let's work it out. I am voting on the adoption of draft Act No.3134 on amendments to certain codes of Ukraine. [[establishing responsibility for the artificial formation of the land without proper documentation]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:42:29]] For-56 The decision is not taken. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amnesty Application in Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 4179]] According to Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u186	Vladimir Olijnik, a party of factions of regions The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Application of Amnesty and Other Legislative Acts of Ukraine, prepared for the second reading. This law was introduced in a new edition of the Amnesty Law in Ukraine, adopted in 1996. Let me remind you that the drafting of the bill was preceded by a major preparatory work that examined the experience of amnesty in countries such as France, Germany, Britain, Slovenia, Poland, Spain, and the United States and Canada. The committee concluded that as in Ukraine, amnesty is not applied anywhere in the world. Before considering the draft law in the second reading, I want to draw attention to the main novels of the project. First. This is a ban on the use of amnesty at the stage of knowledge, pretrial investigation, and also when a criminal case is in the course of a court, but not dealt with by the latter. The other one. This is an extension of the number of convicted persons to whom amnesty cannot be applied at all. And the third. This is a change in the order in which convicts are released from further punishment. In view of the repeal of the law on the possibility of applying amnesty at the stage of research and trial, relevant amendments are made to articles 44, 86 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to article 6 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. In addition, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is supplemented by a new article 6 with a badge 1, which defines the procedure for the release of a person from punishment as a result of an act of amnesty. Now let's move on to the content of the project. Bills from law enforcement entities received 54 proposals. Of these, 26 are taken into account in full or in part, and 28 are rejected, of which 10 amendments by national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyevich are rejected only because they would violate article 116 of the Rules if taken into account, and 4 amendments were rejected as having no meaningful burden, since the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading is fully repeated. [[No33, 39, 43, 51, 52]] [[44, 46, 47, 49]] The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u187	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Shall we vote? Well, the amendments are those of Yuri Anatoliyevich, who do not refer to a violation of 116 articles. Only those you think. No, no, there are really ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm not. I don't violate the Rules, unlike the coalition and unlike the presiding officers today, because every two of them. The session, recorded in the Law on the Rules, should be adjourned. And Adam Ivanovich, let me make a note of the Rules, and the Regulatory Committee will obviously point to that, because the health and acquisition of national deputies is also a acquisition and a nation. Do you understand? That's it. Other When they don't take a break. it's called torture. Even the dry one applauds, though. Yes, dear friends, I would like to emphasize the seventh amendment. The point is that I propose “a” and “b” in the first part of Article 2 to read: “the full exemption of the persons mentioned therein from the punishment or punishment ordered by the court.” So far, it has been written in its original edition “since the judgment was given. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u189	The position of the committee is to reject, as the proposal does not bring any sense of exertion. The law already divides the notions of “punishment” and “consequent punishment”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u190	Yes, Your Honor, allow me to respond to Yuri Anatoliovich's remarks and, with your permission, give him a recess. What other amendments have you made? You don't? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as Act of Act No. 4179 on Amendments to the Amnesty Law. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:48:02]] For-37 Let's do it again. One more time. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:48:22]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to take into account one situation when we voted for the local elections. Based on the fact that there are less than a hundred articles here, we have the opportunity to give a task to the committee of profile and to shorten the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading by seven days. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u191	You can't do that. Adam Ivanovich, you can't do that. There's a denial. [[18:49:05]] For 251
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u192	Copy that. I'll remind you again. We have no right and, Yuri Anatolyevich, you would be right if the law went beyond 100 articles or was a code. Since there are 94 or 96 articles, we can afford it. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u193	Adam Ivanovich, in the “Transitional ” 10 more articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u194	Transitional positions are one article that deals with making changes to such laws. Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders is under consideration, registration number 2581. Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u195	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on a draft law for adoption in the second reading and in general on the state defense order. This law is of fundamental importance in the context of the effective use of our nation's defence and industrial complex, the concerted action of all the authorities at the procurement stage, including the direction of ordering the efficient use of budgetary financial resources, based on the priorities and capabilities of the national manufacturer, without violating transparent competition. There is a proposal to support the submission of the National Security and Defence Committee, which voted unanimously in favour of this law. Including reporting that 26 proposals have been received from the legal entities of the legislative initiative, including 22 proposals and 4 rejected. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u196	Thank you. Is there no offer of Carmazin? Yes. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u197	Adam Ivanovich, thank you, I like your jokes, but right now, you know, we have a criminal code for fraud in prison. You've now committed a huge fraud when you've reduced the law on local elections to half the term for all deputies. Adam Ivanovich, without being included in the order of the day. How can you do that, explain to me? How else can we trample on the Rules of Procedure Act?" That's why Adam Ivanovich, I'm making a second observation for you today. And my fourth amendment, which I want you to focus on, and I think Anatoly Kirilovich will agree with it. This is about what I propose where the legal basis of the defense order is, in the second article, to write that there is also the Law on the Purchase of Goods, Jobs and Services for State Funds. Because that law was not there at the time, and the committee wrote that the law had been repealed, but now there is a law and the President has signed it, and it has become valid, so how can we not write it down now, Anatoly Kirilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u198	Yes, I would like to agree, in view of the fact that Ukraine today has a bill signed by the President and the Act on State Procurement in force, and this will only improve, including the procedure for defence procurement. Thank you. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u199	What other observations, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u200	We'll vote it all out, there'll be no comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u201	Yeah? Then, at the suggestion of Yuri Anatoliyovich, who will no longer make any further remarks, please support his amendment, the committee agrees. Vote. [[18:53:03]] For 262 Carmazin's amendment, counted, is supported by 262 people's deputies. Thank you. I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, under number 2581, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders. Please vote. [[18:53:34]] For 298 Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich and Yuri Anatolyevich for supporting the bill. Don't show me how you voted in the morning. Bill No. 4123 of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Control of International Transfers of Goods of Military Purpose and Double Use is under consideration. [[second reading]] 4123 Bill. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is one of the first ten countries to export special forces and weapons. It's a very promising market for us, where there's hard competition and it's very important to trust the supplier state, including by the State all the rules of international law of national law on the transfer of goods of military use and dual use. This law aims to improve all procedures in practice by applying the directions of State expert control and bringing them closer to the same procedures that exist in European countries. 15 proposals came from the legislators, all taken into account, and the National Security and Defence Committee unanimously proposes to support the draft Law on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u203	Dear colleagues, it's incredible, but the fact that Yuri Anatoliovich's remarks to this bill are not there. That is why I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole as a law, Act No. 4123 amending the Ukrainian Law on State control over international transfers of military supplies and dual use.” Please vote. [[18:55:51]] For 287 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Law on the Supplementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine is under consideration. Please, Suškevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u204	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u205	Sorry, we've already accepted 4607. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u206	4607. Dear colleagues! Your view is that an important and social bill is proposed that, if adopted, will really support our citizens with disabilities, because it affects them if they have a car as a means of rehabilitation -- to ensure that they are properly moved. It is about the need to establish certain preferences when using disabled parking spaces and, also, parking spaces for cars. I thank you for adopting this law in the first reading and it was very unanimously supported. The point is that today the issue is an extremely relevant one in all European countries. And today your thoughts are proposed for the second reading of this bill. Practically all the main positions of the national MPs who gave before this are included in the second reading of the proposals and other partial consideration. The point is that in the end we are on our streets a quota so that someone who has problems with disability can put up their transportation and reserve a parking space for this transport, so that this issue is finally resolved by this bill. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let us support the bill number 4607 on the completion of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. [[on free parking of means of transport]] Please vote. Carmazin’s amendments are included in this law. [[18:58:24]] For 304 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution is under consideration. [[on the age of juvenile prisoners and on the size of pension increases]] Bill number 2057. The first deputy chairman of the committee, Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u208	Thank you, the Communist faction, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, you know this bill, we've already looked at it, it's going to be de facto, the contents of the bill, into two things. There is a uniformity of legislation in the definition of the age of adulthood, that is, the age of 16-18 is changing, we have a total of 18 in law, and in this law before the first reading there was a figure of 16. And the second unification is unified by the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution by the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection in such a way that similar social status under this Act is brought into conformity with the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. There are two amendments in this bill that the committee disagreed with and disagreed with one reasoning that in this case, if adopted, those categories of Ukrainian citizens who are subject to this law receive a higher preference than those provided by the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. The committee therefore disagreed with these suggestions, so the committee proposes to adopt this law on second reading as well as on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u209	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich thinks otherwise, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u210	No, I think we should adopt the law, it's Carmazin, I think we should adopt the law, I just want to supplement it. My first amendment, part 2 of article 6.2, I suggest that we put it in the text, all but one changes, the disabled of the second group not 40 percent now, but 45 percent of the subsistence minimum, just 5 percent of the difference. And the third group has 35 percent of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs. If we're talking about increasing these payments, let's raise them a little bit. So I only have a discrepancy here with the committee in what they wrote down, and I wrote down 45; 30, I wrote down 35. So I want to ask you what you think is that a lot of 35, if you wrote down 70, it would also be a little, you know, at the current standard of living, and 5 percent is how important it is that we trade with you for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u211	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:01:29]] For-49 Correction not supported. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance, is there another amendment? Well, please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u212	Yuri Carmazin. No, it's not. I have a second amendment. This is part two of article 6.3. It's added to the paper because everyone's tired out loud, it's probably hard for you who doesn't have a text in front of you. The individuals mentioned in this article who were rewarded during the Great Homeland War with orders and medals from the former Soviet Union for their dedicated work and their irreprehensible military service. The essence of the amendment is that they are persons who are rewarded during the Great Homeland War, not other persons. Here's what we're talking about. So that's how this amendment is different from the one that it is right now. I'd like to support him. And we need to protect those citizens who have received their rewards in the Great War, not at some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u213	Dear colleagues, but there are further words spoken in the same language. I mean, Yuri Anatoliyovich, it says, not only did you put in the front that during the Great Fatherland, it still goes “in the years of the Great Homeland War”. I mean, it's like that. This is taken into account, Yuri Anatolyevich. is meant not only in the back, but everything: both in the front and in the back. Well, I insist, Yuri Anatolyevich, I'm voting. He insists, let him vote. [[19:03:14]] For-24 Dear colleagues, I remind you once again, there is only Yuri Anatoliyovich twice wanted to write the same thing. Well, that's his right. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on the age of juvenile prisoners and on the size of pension increases]] [[Registration number 2057]] Please vote. [[19:03:50]] For 309 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Social Services Act is under consideration. [[Registration number 1409]] Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, head of the committee, reports. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u214	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National Deputy Suškević, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill tabled by my colleague Valery Konovaluk, whose purpose is to introduce legislation in order to establish and pay compensation to individuals who provide social services, as well as to establish sources of funding for these services at the expense of local budgets. I want to remind you that these points are actually settled by the 558th Cabinet Regulation of 29 April 2004. But the bill is said to have essentially defined at the level of law these provisions relating to the introduction of compensatory payments. He was on the committee's second reading, this bill, 11 proposals were made. I am grateful to the deputies of Carmazin, Kirilczuk, Kruc, Strange, almost most of the proposals are taken into account. One amendment of the venerable Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin is partially taken into account. As for the rejected amendments, they are more technical or, well, they are some of them contrary to the Constitution, and one of them is simply not the norm of this law, but the Tax Law. So I'm asking the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons to adopt this law in a second reading, taking into account those amendments that are defined in the comparative table and in general. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u215	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, you've been commended. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u216	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I actually thank the committee for taking all the amendments and suggestions seriously. But I'd like us to just not to get away from serious things. We're talking about compensation for people who provide social services to citizens. And when I wrote the correction here: the compensations received are not taxed that compensation should not be included in the income of the people who provide these social services, and that it is appropriate to reduce the cases of the elderly being sent to the boarders so they want to do so. So I actually put a question before the committee that we need to get this basic taxation out. Let's not do it in this law, let's do it in another one. So I wanted to point out to you that this is not taxable. I will not insist on any other amendments, nor do I insist on voting. I want you to hear me hear other committees that depend on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u217	Thank you. You heard Carmazin. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a law under number 1409 amending the Ukrainian Social Services Act. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:07:31]] For-92 Please, by the factions. Region Party – 3, “Timoshenko Block 2 – 41, “Our Ukraine” – 20, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 2, non-fractional – 0. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on pre-document checks at border crossing points is under consideration. [[Registration number 2766]] Terjehoin Sergey Anatolyevich of the Committee None. The committee requested that the bill be transposed. I'm voting on a motion to postpone this bill. Please be supportive. [[19:08:37]] For 231 The decision is supported. The bill is transferred to the following week. The draft Law on the Concept of State Migration Policy is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 5085-1. Reported Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich, head of the Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u218	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that in the history of the Supreme Council's activities, this is the third legislative attempt to determine the state's migration policy. During this time, in fact, politics has been defined in practice in all strategic directions and has long been implemented. Because migration processes exist. And perhaps, even now, before the Euro-2012 championship, Ukraine will determine its migration policy. On April 14, the committee reviewed the draft Law on the Concept of State Migration Policy, authored by national deputies, representing all factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some 34 proposals and amendments were received from the legislators. Although it must be said that the activity of such proposals and amendments by national deputies is very low. These are the amendments made by the national deputies of Carmazin, Kolechenko Vadim, Cruz, and your humble servant. Of the 34th 29 amendments counted, 4 were rejected. This is Amendment 3 of the Circle and 2 of Carmazin and Koleschenka's amendments. These amendments have been rejected mainly because, following a change in the structure of the bill, they duplicate its previous position or apply to provisions that are not subject to the resolution of the bill. For example, Amendments 12 and 13 on page 13. And I believe that Mr. Carmazin, given that all his recent amendments are included, will not insist on their deliberations, on the vote. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u219	Will we support the committee? I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a bill on the concept of state migration policy. [[Registration number 5085-1]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[19:11:21]] For-56
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u220	Adam Ivanovich, maybe society wants to know why this bill is not backing up again, even though it was adopted in the first reading and in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u221	56. If there was at least 156, I could say something. The law. With motive? Please, Karmazin with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u222	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you're contradicting my President's electoral program, I'm addressing the Regions, you're contradicting common sense, because today migration policy is not in the country at all, it's just gone. We don't even want to establish concepts. Do you understand? And we've been doing it for years. Despite the fact that migration processes in Ukraine have become particularly acute, despite the fact that we now have ethnically marked crime and market takeovers and the capture of certain cities, and there are serious and serious such criminal aspects, and we still do not want to regulate them. Because of this, Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to reread the second reading, perhaps the people are tired. I don't know, because, look, 19 hours 12 minutes now, maybe put on a second reading or.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u223	Thank you. 19.12. It's not a night yet. I'm voting on the bill for re-reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[19:13:11]] For-63 Not supported, bill rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[concerning the application of court decisions to the Single State Register]] [[Registration number 3214 of the bill]] Julia Volodymyrna Novikova reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u224	The Committee on Justice considered bill 3214 at its meeting. 38 amendments were made by the deputies of Olijnik, Karmazin, Pisarenko, Steshenko, Stretovich, Mishchenka. 8 of them were counted and 30 were rejected. It should be noted that the bill received significant changes after its consideration and approval on the committee. Well, I don't know what the amendment is. There is a proposal for the committee to adopt the bill in second reading and in whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u225	Thank you. Nobody insists? Let's support Julia Volodymyrna. So Carmazin's microphone, then Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u226	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose article 105 of the Ukrainian Code of Civil Procedure: “In the event of a failure to obtain a claim from the debtor within 3 days of the end of the time limit for its submission and for the existence of data on receipt by the debtor of a copy of the order, the court shall acquire legal force and shall immediately be included in the Single State Register of Judgments, and the court shall issue it to the appellate court.” I would like to point out that the point is that it should immediately be included in the Single State Register. I don't know what the motive is, it doesn't say why this amendment was rejected. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, knowing your principles, I think you may be able to navigate and consider this amendment or continue to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u227	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I would like to remind you of the discussion that took place on our committee during the consideration of this bill. If you remember, we've discussed all of this with you, and all of these amendments that aren't taken into account, which are all rejected by just one sign, it's not about the substance of these amendments, because they're practically taken into account by another law, but about the subject matter of regulating the procedural codes of Ukraine being the order of execution of the case. And bringing a court decision to the Single State Register of Judgments represents a technical action and is not part of a judicial process, which is why it cannot be regulated by procedural law. And that's why all the changes that were proposed for a court decision to the register, to the procedural codes, namely the Civil, the Master, the Criminal, the Administrative, were rejected by the committee on this particular sign, because it's not subject to procedural legislation. But all of these suggestions are practically included in the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u228	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u229	I'm done. In the Act on Access to Decisions. And we were discussing how quickly a decision was to be made after it was taken by the court, and we concluded, if you remember, that there were different proposals: immediately, five days, - and we concluded that three days was enough for the court, and that was normal. So I ask you not to insist more on the amendments, but to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u230	You convinced one of the repairmen. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u231	Julia Volodymyrna, the eve of the great reform of the court, I remember that in this law we had a lot of observations, including scientific expertise. And this law was in line with judicial reform, and we need it today as part of what we're going to adopt with you next week or tomorrow? Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u232	That's what I'm saying. We can't. We don't need to change the procedural law right now. First of all, it's not a subject of procedural law -- it's a proposed change, and second of all, it's just not necessary in the context of judicial reform. And these changes to access. It's a completely normal change to the Access to Justice Act, and we've discussed it with you, and it's fine. So I think you can adopt this bill in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u233	Thank you. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. Sorry, in the second reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation, registration number. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've already been convinced. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u234	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the point is that we are making changes in the Code of Conduct. And Amendment 17 of Carmazin, on the fifth page, is written to present part 4 of article 105 as follows: “The ruling not later than the day after its adoption is included in the Single State Register of Judgments. The person responsible for failing to comply with this rule shall be responsible under the law.” It's about, Your Honor Julia Volodymyrical, about these things, that the official who didn't provide for the demolition to be held accountable. Let's declare it, I suggest it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u235	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, if you will. Maybe I'll tell you that's already taken into account. Why do we not re-enter the Codex of the Master? Because it's not normal. It's not procedural legislation. Only by this sign. As for the individual’s responsibility, this is reflected in article 4. 1, 4.2 of this Act on Access to Judgment. I quote paragraph five: A violation of the terms defined in this article entails the legal personal responsibility of the head of the court or of the responsible person, the administrator and the registrar. That is, we rely on both sides: both those who send responsibility, those who send it, and those who register it. I think it should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Partially counted. And let us, honourable colleagues, before the vote, give a protocol commission to the first deputy head of the Committee on Justice and the head of the Subcommittee on Justice, that is, Karmazin and Novikovy, to clarify the relationship outside the session room. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law under number 3214 amending certain legislative acts regarding the obligation to bring court decisions to the Single State Register. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:20:49]] For-37 Not supported. The law is off-limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u237	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 85 of the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking is under review. [[on the protection of the rights of commercial bank investors]] Submission of the withdrawal committee. Registration number 4502, second reading. Stanislaw Arzwethyn, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this bill was adopted over a year ago. And it was about setting up some kind of moratorium regime in those banks where the temporary administration was operating. But over the course of this year, we have made many changes to various bills. And all those amendments that were made on the first reading, we adopted in the first reading, they were integrated into other laws, including the Act No. 1617, which is about amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the features of bank financial recovery measures. And the main norm is to reduce the moratorium from six months to three months. It was that compromise norm that both the National Bank and the banking community agreed to, and the author of this novel by Mikola Janović Azarov, who offered this proposal. And in view of the fact that this was the main norm. is regulated by law, our committee has taken a decision and proposes to determine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed its ruling last year, June 10, 2009 on the adoption of the bill. So we're counting that the relevance of this bill is lost and we're proposing that it be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u239	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4502]] Please vote. [[19:23:29]] For 260 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. Registration number 6451. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Demcishen Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u240	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! To carry out the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, he prepared for the second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Internal and Foreign Policy, submitted by President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic of Ukraine, and recognized as an urgent draft adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 June 2010. [[Registration number 6451]] During the meeting of the committee on June 29, 2010, 423 proposals and amendments came from 42 legal entities. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the third part of the first paragraph, article 123 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft of the Ukrainian Law “On the Principles of Internal and External Policy”, submitted by President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic of Ukraine, to be adopted on second reading and as a whole. [[Registration number 6451]] The bill proposed by the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government is finalized with comments from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Administration. The comparative table and the comments of the Chief Legal Authority are given, please note that technical and legal revision of the text in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules and editorial clarifications made in accordance with the Ukrainian spelling will be carried out when preparing the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u241	Yes, please, who has a note. Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u242	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, having examined the text of a law in which an extraordinary number of inadequacies, violations of the Constitution, which in fact duplicates the provisions of the Constitution and is not of a legal and regulatory nature but is of a declarative nature, I believe that the Supreme Council of Law, in accordance with 85 of the Constitution, defines the principles of internal and external policy by adopting a branched system of legislative acts, codes, laws, and not just one document, one law as anyone today would like to see. So I'm making a proposal, and this is amendment number two, to reject this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u243	You know, we're going to vote now. But I'm just reminding the next person who wants to reject the law that there's no regulation. In the case of the special merit of Carmazine's legislation, I'm going to put his amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. There's an amendment to his friend. [[19:27:34]] For-48 Not supported. Please. The third amendment, Kozemyakin. Don't insist. Carmazine, 4th? Don't insist. 5th, Kirilchuk? Don't insist. 6th, Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u244	Dear Adam Ivanovich, George Carmazin I think you and I need to take this bill very seriously. It's a shame that we're considering such a serious law at 19 hours 28 minutes ago -- this is what I'm talking about now for the protocol, so that it can then be accused in court of adopting such a law -- says that we're not taking it seriously with you, without respect for this law. This is why I proposed in this law in Amendment 4 to exclude from the text the draft duplication of the provisions of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. So in order for the law to end its subject matter, we have to be a little bit law-abiding with you. Let's just say that the law on normative legal acts was overturned, and now you realize you have to bite your elbows.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u245	Thank you. On behalf of the judges, I remind you that in the morning session, the necessary number of votes were taken by the deputies to decide that we are working today to implement the entire agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u246	And the Rules of Procedure Act doesn't say anything about that, except what I said, there's no break there. Only between two and 16 o'clock. There's a sixth correction of Karmazin, please be sure. [[19:29:42]] For-46 Not supported. You don't insist on correcting the seventh. That's how I realized the eighth Matthewnko doesn't insist. The humpback of the ninth does not insist. Kirilchuk the tenth does not insist. Matthew 11. Matthew does not insist. Demchishen doesn't insist. Hare 15. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u247	John Rabbit of the Ukrainian People's Party. There is a clear conclusion that the author, President Janukovic, puts the concept of the principle far greater meaning than the interpretational dictionaries of the Ukrainian language define. Here you can even talk about conscious substitution of terms in the English dictionary of the concept of “principles” is interpreted as “originating positions, principal positions of principles”. Since most people in our room identify themselves as ‘Russian’, let me give you a translation of the ‘principle’. Basics in Russian, the word “principles” is translated into Russian as “fundament”, “principle”, “principles”. Therefore, I propose to exclude the word “priority” from the text, which is not the proper subject of regulation of this law. Finally, I want everyone to understand that the law must be adopted according to the correct understanding, and this is the law that is “written on the knee”, otherwise I cannot call it. It's not legitimate because it regulates a large sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u248	I'm betting on the voting proposal by John Alexanderovich, please be determined. [[19:31:29]] For-45 The offer is not supported. 16th. Don't insist. 17th. Matvienko, no. 18th. Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u249	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. We should not forget the honourable national MPs on whom the Ukrainian State was founded. These principles, these principles are set forth in both the Constitution and the Declaration of State sovereignty of Ukraine. And that's where the point is that the Ukrainian nation was self-defined by the principle of self-determination, and that the Ukrainian nation, that's the heart of our community in guaranteeing the rights of national minorities. I therefore propose to write down this principle: “the preservation and development of the identity of the Ukrainian nation and the historical consciousness and national dignity of the Ukrainians”. I mean, not just about citizens' rights, but about the rights of the nation, we need to reconcile these things, not contradict each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u250	Vote 18, Hare amendment, please be determined. [[19:32:52]] For-38 Not supported. 19th. Hare microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u251	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I would like to add the words “and the realization of the European civilisational choice of the Ukrainian people”. I remind you, honourable national MPs, that Ukraine's independence was built on such a gauze as “Returning back to Europe”, which we understood as a desire to live by European standards, to have a decent salary, to have a real history of respect for man. The second such discovery was during the orange revolution when the struggle for democracy was fought. The same was true of the choice of civilisational Europeans. Today, we see how the new power of the majority is turning Ukrainian society in Europe into euphoria, into an ideology that is foreign to Ukrainians as Europeans, into the ideology of non-resistinism. So I propose this choice of the European Ukrainian nation, which was approved in a referendum in December 1991 to write, otherwise, where are we going?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u252	I bet on the vote of Amendment 19 of John the Rabbit. [[19:34:21]] For-41 Correction not supported. 20 revisions. Are you insisting on her, Ivan Alexandrovich? It's Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u253	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The thing is, this year, it's a constant socio-economic development. It's a very narrow understanding of constant development. The term usually applies to the country. And so I propose to delete the words "social development, socio-economic," and then we will have a steady state development. We need to finally understand that the constant development of the state does not simply ensure development, but a balanced development of many spheres, all spheres, if you want, is appropriate mechanisms, for this is an appropriate ideology. But when we narrow it down to something else, we show that we never got out of the grip of Soviet Communist ideology, where everything materialized, where we forgot about ecology, where we forgot about the spiritual realm. So in the world, steady development is about the country, not about socio-economic development. So we need to expand this concept if we're building a European state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u254	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the Hare, please identify yourself. [[19:35:54]] For-39 Not supported. 21st of Paris. Don't insist. Matvienko. Is he insisting? Excuse me, please. Andrea Parbia’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u255	This article recommends moving words that determine that domestic policy is based on such principles, moving the words “priority for the protection of national interests ” into foreign policy. Because any state actually defines in foreign policy as a priority for protecting national interests and protecting, in fact, the sovereignty of the state. Internal politics should be governed by the State’s protection of human and civil rights and freedoms. And that's what we're proposing. Technically move the “protection of national interests” to a chapter that deals with foreign policy rather than internal politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u256	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 21 Andria Paris. [[19:37:15]] For-46 No correction supported. Amendment to the 22nd of Anatolia Matvienko. Don't insist. John the Rabbit of the 23rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u257	Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u258	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose to supplement this chapter with a new paragraph, “Protection, Protection of the National Statehood of the Ukrainian People”. Each of you knows that more than ever before Ukrainian statehood is threatened and threatened in its own Ukrainian sense. And each of you knows that the Ukrainian state was created as a nation. Where the tradition and custom of the Ukrainian people are based on the social system of guaranteeing the rights of national minorities. That is how all European nations and every democratic nation have been created, and the people who care for their future are protecting their nation. Today we are hearing of a deepening of the so - called national identity and many other things. And in the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, as it is now being raised in parts by the current authorities, it is about the need to protect national sovereignty. So this is going to be, or whatever state we're going to be protecting migrants or something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u259	I bet on the vote of Amendment 23 of John the Rabbit. [[19:38:53]] For-44 The amendment is not accepted. Black Willing Alexander, 24th Amendment. Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u260	Dear friends, Alexander Czarvolenko and Viacheslav Koval, we have two amendments here, the National Movement of Ukraine. Look at this second part of the article, which is essentially declarant. What did the authors of this bill actually do? They took a copy of the Constitution, the Bible, the moral code of the Communist builder, and other general positions of the type that require the distribution of authority, such as what is needed freedom and all. But if we now adopt this bill in such an editorial way, it will contradict other bills that this majority voted in the lead of the Party of Regions today, at least the same Law on Local Elections that was adopted in the first reading. So, I think to keep from letting go, not to do osmosis, let's delete this second paragraph in general about equality of rights and every other inferno. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u261	I bet on the vote of Amendment 24. [[19:40:17]] For-38 Correction not supported. Amendment 25. Logwinka, are you insisting on her? I can't see. Irina Heratschenko, 26th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u262	Dear colleagues, I think it's quite obvious that we have to say the main thing right now is that there's a farce going on in the hall, because this law was written for two things. First. Remove the norm for Ukraine's accession to NATO. And the second. It's just to destroy the Ukrainian language. And if the 423 amendments are only 3 amendments, the heads of the faction of the Party of Regions, we can understand why this is happening here today. In fact, today, this is actually the arrangement in the hall -- the entire authority of the Party of Regions. This is not only done in the Electoral Law but also in this amendment. I think we have to be honest with the voters, there's an absolute farce going on. That's why the law is being enforced. And I insist on my amendment because it's really important that gender equality be enshrined in the principles of domestic politics. Because it is only for our President and our Prime Minister the place of a woman in the kitchen. In fact, in European countries, women have the same place as men, both in social life and in political and other matters. And I'd like you to support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u263	I bet on the vote of Amendment 26 Irina Heratchenko. [[19:41:56]] For-76 Correction not counted. 27 Amendment of the People's Deputies of the Blacksmith. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u264	Dear friends! Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. See, here we declare the protection of all subjects of property rights before the law. But there is a broader norm. The equality of all subjects before the law in general. So I think it's kind of funny, a declaration like that. From. On the other hand, the protection of competition in the field of economic activity needs to be transferred to the next paragraph. So I would suggest that this amendment be removed. Thank you. Part 2 of Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u265	I bet on the vote of Amendment 27. [[19:42:48]] For-45 No correction supported. 28 Amendment of the Blacksmith. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u266	Dear friends! So this is where the protection of competition in economic activity is declared. Once again, I want to insist that this is not the norm of this article. This is the next article, so this article should be deleted, and this should be moved to the next paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u267	I'll bet the vote on the 28th amendment. [[19:43:31]] For-35 No correction supported. Correction 29, Logwinenko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 30. John the Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u268	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Once again, among the universal principles of internal politics, we see a point like ensuring the steady development of the economy. It should be written “not the constant development of the economy” but the “constant development of the country”. And the constant development of the country is based on three principles: it's a market economy, it's social justice, and it's resource-environmental balance. This is the combination of both the UN documents and the practical policy of the European Union. And we're showing again, I don't know what kind of thinking, perhaps, of the past century. And that's why these are in such an important document, it's just a shame. That's why I suggested a normal science-based scheme. Why are these proposals not accepted? It's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u269	I bet on the vote of Amendment 30 of John the Rabbit. [[19:45:01]] For-39 No correction supported. 31 Amendments to Alexander the Blacksmith. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u270	Dear friends. Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. See, in this article, by dividing what the Rabbit said and what is not supported, unfortunately, in the hall, but to ensure the steady development of the economy to market status of its orientation, here should be added "protection of competition in the sphere of the economy". This is the norm of this article, not the previous rule of equality before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u271	I bet on the vote of Amendment 31. [[19:45:46.]] For-27 No correction supported. Amendment 32, John the Rabbit, and 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u272	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The President is offering us this principle, which is to ensure the balance of public, regional and local interests. The Holy Lord himself cannot know what this womb is, of which interest. Clearly, we have a state with a unitary system, and we have state-wide interests and we have community interests, not some local, regional interests. How can we relate to them? That's why I'm proposing to write down the balance between public interests and the interests of the territorial communities, a. at the level of the territorial communities there is a human being living, because at the level of these communities it solves and has its own problems, and our attention should be focused primarily on human needs, and our attention should be focused on ensuring a balance between the public interests and the interests of the human being through the community in which people are organized. We have a secret federalization formula, and we vote for it. It's just a coup d'état. Don't you, MPs, understand where these principles lead you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u273	I'm betting on a vote of 32 amendments. [[19:47:17]] For-26 No correction supported. 33 Amendments and 34 John the Hare. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u274	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm just asking you to stop breaking this comedy, as you can tell, because all the amendments are rejected, the reporter is silent as a fish in the water, you're silent. I'm sorry, I want to know for what reasons all these amendments have been rejected. If you've accepted this document just to get out of the way, then I'm sorry, I wanted to improve this document, because I'm a person who understands both in the economy and understands security. You're just breaking a comedy. So give me an answer as to why this amendment is rejected when it comes to ensuring the national identity of Ukrainians. When the national identity competition is going on in the world today, we're going into an information age where language as a medium of information is going to weigh a lot. Today, all nations maintain their customs and traditions, and we Ukrainians do not need to do so. Why did you reject this amendment, which is very important to the future Ukrainian nation of our nation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u275	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u276	Dear John Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! There's a procedure for voting amendments, and if you'll excuse me, the fish on the ice is still silent. a vote is taken. I'll answer your question. Copy that. Comment. I want to tell you that every proposal has been considered and one way or another, let's say, delete the word and so on. This bill, introduced by the President of Ukraine, affects the content and structure of the bill. Now, about your question. Your question. So before this bill, which we are considering and following in stages today, there will be another 200 sublegal acts that will regulate an article and a certain rule of the article. The written ones that we have already voted and rejected will likely be counted among others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u277	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 33 of John the Rabbit. [[19:50:03]] For-44 No correction supported. Amendment 34. John the Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u278	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I suggest you write down the paragraph. This paragraph shall apply. in this form: “consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its historical consciousness, tradition and culture”. Because everyone realizes that even though the Ukrainian nation was carrying out the principle of self - determination, and it was to implement this principle that it was building its state, we had been a people in colonial dependence for a long time. And we have a depraved culture today, we have a dead end in Ukrainian language today, we have a story written by foreigners today. Hence, every nation that is on the path of independence wants to write true history, develop its own language, and want to unite the people. Why don't you want these positive factors for our society, why don't you want to implement this kind of policy? Do you want a policy of uncovering Ukraine and destroying the Ukrainian state? I don't understand. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u279	Please, if the committee has arguments about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u280	We didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u281	Didn't they? I then put to the vote Amendment 34 by John the Rabbit. [[19:51:43]] For-38
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u282	Correction not supported. 35th, Logwinenka, don't insist. 36th, Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u283	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I'm actually proposing to disband this committee, because it's nothing. He's not responsible for anything. He doesn't explain his actions. As for the amendment, the level of this document can be very clearly illustrated by the words: freedom, social justice, and creative self - realization. Creative self - realization of whom? Humans, Citizens, or Nations? Social justice is a term that refers to the level of society, not to human beings. That is why I propose that the words "social justice" should be removed so that a number of co-ordinated concepts can be left alone are freedom and this is the creative self-implementation of citizens. Then it is brief and clear what this principle is for. And the kind of editorial that we're going to accept right now is just an illiterate editorial. And that's why this document is simple. Well, I don't think it's scary. I've never seen such documents in Parliament in years, at a low level.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u284	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u285	Dear Ivan Aleksandrovich. And by making this proposal, you are narrowing down the content of this article. But the committee was looking at these issues, and so, let's say, were voting for it. Therefore, the committee did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u286	Don't narrow down democracy. I'm voting on the 36th amendment of the Hare. [[19:53:31]] For-26 Not supported. 37th, Garbage, don't insist. 38th, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u287	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose that the word “civil” be deleted from the text. Why? Because it says "social partnership and civil solidarity". We know what civil society is. And so again, there's no level of concept. Therefore, it is better to write down “social partnership and solidarity”, then it is clear what it is about. And it's like, if a state is a treaty between power and between citizens, we have to have solidarity only between citizens, and the state here and where this is the ideology of contravention, it's the ideology of war against everyone, it's the ideology of war against its own state. And I can't agree with these formulations in principle, which Mr. Janukovic has proposed and supports the committee, and he supports most of them. So let's think about a document that's going to increase the compatriot of the Ukrainian nation that's going to strengthen social harmony rather than split this society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u288	The 38th Amendment of the Hare shall be put to the vote. [[19:55:01]] For-30 Not supported. The Seminomist does not insist. Marmazov doesn't insist. Yavorowski does not insist. A boy named Andrew. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u289	A boy named Andrew. I recommend that the chapter “External policy is based on such principles” firstly put national interests at the top of the agenda. Why is that not reflected in foreign policy, why is this point so important? Therefore, the last few months of the presidency and the creation of a pervasive coalition have created the impression that the Ukrainian political summit is beginning to serve the foreign political interests of another state, the Russian Federation, and not Ukraine. And I'm afraid that if we don't legally establish the responsibility of protecting national interests for Yanukovic and the Party of Regions, we're going to see in our eyes the full effect of Ukrainian independence and Ukrainian sovereignty, as we already see in the example of this law that they want to oppose today through the Supreme Council. We emphasize that what's happening in this room is just comedy, let's introduce another practice, that the Party of Regions is passing the law to the Supreme Council, and Litwin is signing it so that we don't do the whole comedy that we're doing right now. I think it'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u290	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You can only help one person not to insist on considering his amendments. I put 42 amendments to the vote. [[19:56:51]] For-36 Not supported. 43rd, Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u291	Alexander Czarvolenko, the National Movement of Ukraine and Viacheslav Koval, the National Movement of Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I don't understand that you really want us to give up the amendments, not discuss everything else? And the second question, I have a question to the reporter, do you think that if the President brought it in, it can't be in any way considered by the deputies and altered by a coma or something? For example, I'm actually surprised at this third chapter, and we're proposing that it be removed, because, you know, as it turns out, we've thrown out Euro-Atlantic integration, and then what's going on, we're counting all the principles that are enshrined in the UN Charter, in cooperation with the security and cooperation organisation in Europe and all the other good intentions. It's a completely ridiculous text that we have to sit here and vote on. So I propose that we stop considering this law at all and leave what is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u292	Yes, he does not insist on correction. If he offers to stop, he does not insist. 43 puts to the vote. [[19:58:22]] For-39 Not supported. 44th. Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u293	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. This document should spell out the principles of the activity of our authority. But when you read the principle proposed by Mr. Janukovic, it is in principle really the United Nations or something else. What is the principle of “sovereign equality of nations”, I propose adding to these words the words “independence and equality in external relations. Because our authority is about to ensure this independence, it has to ensure equality. Can our authorities act as non-independent authorities that they do not want this equality, for example, with Russia. It acts like vassals, so those who take this authority away from their citizens, from future generations. No one needs such a document, for it is a document that does not oblige the authorities to act in national interests and does not oblige the authorities to defend their state and national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u294	I'll bet you 44 votes. [[19:59:46]] For-36 Not supported. 45th. Don't insist. 46th. No, it's not. 47th. Nitrogen microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u295	Adam Ivanovich, I would still like the reporter to comment on what we are saying. See, obviously, the definitely wiser word to “hold back” is to replace the word “resistance” with the word “resistance”. In general, the word “maintaining ” is a strange word. And the rejection of threat, force, or use is perfectly normal. In this regard, I suggested that I stop or not offer, you know, as in that anecdotes, one of the others says: “I was standing under a stake, making a need. A militiaman comes up and says, "Hide and stop," and I say, "I cheated on him, I hid him, but I didn't stop." That's how you treat me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u296	47 is voting. [[20:00:55]] For-28 Not supported. 48, do you insist? Nitrogen microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u297	Adam Ivanovich! Alexander the Blacksmith, the National Movement of Ukraine. See what is stated here: “retention from the threat of force or its application both against territorial integrity or so.” Against territorial integrity, the word “how” has to be removed, for this is a completely absurd text. So in which case tell me, I'm asking you to comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u298	Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u299	As you can see, I'm being rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u300	So it's in the editor's office. No, read it in the right column there, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u301	So, honourable colleagues, technical error, let's say for the stenographer, the committee agrees that 48 amendments by a colleague of Blacksmith are counted. Is that what the committee thinks?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u302	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u303	Counted. 49 Blacksmith. Vote? Let's vote for the 48th Amendment of the Blackwolf. Please be supportive. Vote. [[20:02:29]] For 223 Dear colleagues! I stress once again what the committee representative said that this is a technical error written down. But the right column does. So let's vote. I'm putting 48 amendments to the Blacksmith's vote. Please be supportive. [[20:03:04]] For 287 Supported. 49th. She's a blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u304	Dear friends, if we are once again, Alexander Blackwolf, the National Movement of Ukraine, if the committee has counted 48 amendments, it is obvious that 49 should be counted, because then it will be incomprehensible. Here the text “yes and in any way” is proposed to be deleted, see: “as a threat to territorial violence in political independence and in any other way”. And against pirates, for example, do we refuse to use force or not? Therefore, I propose that the word “yes and in any other way” be deleted in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u305	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u306	I understand that the committee also agrees. Please support the 49th Amendment of the Blackwolf. Vote. [[20:04:04]] For 279 Amendment 49 supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u307	Yes, the 50 doesn't insist. Logwinka, Matthew does not insist. 52nd. Ivan Alexandrovich, do you insist? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u308	Yes. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose to add to the word “interferential and equitable”. For who will determine for another state whether it is mutually beneficial or not a mutually beneficial cooperation between Ukraine and that other state. And equality, that's exactly what our authority has to do, it has to make a commitment. And if there's no equivalence, it's some sort of evaluative, evaluative notion that puts us in a very uncomfortable position. We already have an example, honourable deputies, of NATO integration, where we have written in the National Security Fundamentals Act that NATO membership can be, but under the conditions and friendly relations of neighbours. And you remember that Russia has done everything to make this friendship go away, translate the guilt into breaking up our relationship with the Ukrainian side, and eventually block our entry into NATO as, among other things, this thesis remains for the European Union. So I don't want there to be evaluation criteria that put us in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u309	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 52 of John the Rabbit. [[20:05:45]] For-38 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, please note that John the Rabbit's next amendment, 53 he's right. The text reads: “Conscientious fulfillment of international obligations. ” He suggests that the word "conscientious" be removed, because the obligation simply needs to be fulfilled, and here is the logic, let's support it. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u310	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is logic in all of my amendments, only this logic, as you can see, does not extend to the appropriate committee, and most of it rejects that logic. Again, the word “conscientious ” means that someone will determine for us how we build these relationships with other countries. We make our own policies subordinate to and to the politicians and politicians of other nations. So I don't understand, let them explain to me why, on what grounds did they reject my amendment? When it is understood that this amendment is not appropriate for Ukraine. This is an amendment that affirms the status of the vassal for our state, for our authority. Maybe our authority wants to get rid of Ukraine as an independent state and become some kind of governorate, some new empire, just so you can say, rather than fool people into doing all this to raise the standard of living to ensure stability, you're just ruining the Ukrainian state. I say it with authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u311	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 53 amendments, and please, John the Rabbit, please support where the logic of iron is, we need to support it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u312	Sudlinne is a supporter. [[20:07:40]] For-57 No correction supported. Amendment 54. John the Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u313	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The new power in President Yanukovic's person, in the person of the government, in the person of the parliamentary coalition says that we are going to implement the policy of European choice so that we can just run. But the principle of this is not stated in this document. So they make one policy in words, and at the level of documents they create the opposite policy. That's why I suggested that we write down the principle of European integration through Ukraine's accession to the European Union and NATO. It is clear that we cannot pursue a policy of European choice if we do not integrate ourselves into European-wide Euro-Atlantic structures. So I'm analyzing this document and I see that it's just a piece of smoke curtain to fool our citizens. They themselves have long lived in Europe. There they have their banks, there they are being treated, there they teach their children, and you, dear Ukrainians, live in this country. That's what they want to show by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u314	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's get this over with. Well, dear fellows, we're looking at an amendment. Now let's finish the procedure. I'm willing to vote on Amendment 54. [[20:09:20]] For-42 Correction not accepted. By procedure, Alla Alexandrovska. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u315	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! I suggest we get into some kind of rational constructive way. If a national MP who has made an amendment that has been rejected or not fully taken into account, I suggest you first read your amendment to make it clear what you are talking about. Because you're not talking about what you wrote. Stop it. Nope. I mean, seriously, you're killing people's heads. You say absolutely amazing things that have nothing to do with what you wrote. So I will ask all the people's deputies, all the people's deputies, first read out the text of your amendment and then explain your position as to why you are proposing it. I'm talking again. What you're saying is completely out of line with what you're writing. Do not lead people astray and stop giving lectures on totally unpopular subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u316	Viacheslav. Everybody calm down, Viacheslav Kirilenko, someone else. Let's not be. Well, Viacheslav Kirilenko was asked. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u317	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Now 20.10 is actually the night. The principles of internal and external politics that are supposed to be approved forever are being considered. There are 50 deputies from the ruling coalition in the hall. When they vote in general, 250 will be on the board. And things have been going on like this lately. The 420 amendments to the opposition did not include 400 amendments to the opposition. There is pure water in the hall for the promotion of the democratic process. If you feel that you are considering the amendments by removing the word “like” that is not needed there, you are mistaken. So there is now an attempt to replace the real discussion of this matter with a farce. And we will not take part in this farce. Our amendments are all being rejected. We stop participating in the consideration of these principles, and their fate will be very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u318	Amendment 55. Ivan Hare, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u319	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose a new paragraph not to allow foreign military bases to be located in Ukraine. Because you know that this is a constitutional norm, this is the first time. Secondly, if you follow the logic suggested by Mr. Janukovic and the parliamentary majority, and the committee, then you want to get out of the way. If you're looking for non-blocking, how can the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation stand in Ukraine, which is not a new phenomenon, it's leftovers of the occupying army. And you have to understand very well that you can't achieve non-lock without pulling out your troops. That's why I proposed this amendment in order to create a mechanism for the implementation of the Constitution. I made this amendment so that even some logic would be in your document, but I see you don't need it. You need a document that will destroy the Ukrainian state, so you want us to give you the opportunity to accept this document without discussion. That won't happen! I'll make all my adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u320	Dear colleagues! I'll put 55 amendments to the vote. At the same time, I would like to support Ivan Alexandrovich in that the Constitution prohibits the deployment of foreign military bases in Ukraine. There are Ukrainian military bases that rent the Black Sea fleet. That's a big difference. And we need to tell the truth about it. If we're going to show you crying that the position of the Black Sea fleet is their military base, then everyone will get used to it, they'll say it's theirs. These are Ukrainian military bases that are leased by the Russian Federation. Let's talk about it. I'm betting on a vote of 55. [[20:13:54]] For the 10th. No correction supported. Anatoly Matvienko, 56th Amendment? No, it's not. 57? No, it's not. Logwinko, 58? No, it's not. 59? No, it's not. Peter Simonenko, 60th Amendment. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u321	Dear colleagues! In response to the conversation we have during the discussion of the amendments, I would like to pay attention to what is happening to our radio audiences and television audiences. First of all, an orange team that was unable to rule, in power, to offer to fulfill the constitutional norm. And that's why they didn't respect Ukrainian statehood. The Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Politics was not introduced. In doing so, Yushchenk himself pursued gang politics. And they thought it was a state policy. Second, they relied on what they were doing to build state-owned vehicles. I remind you, citizens of honor! It was from the gas stations that they began to build statehood. And that's what they want to use. My amendment is down to the next one. Vladimir Mikhailovich, here we really need to understand that the principles of internal policy in the area of state-building, in the area of state-building, must be taken away from the word “internal policy”. Because we still don't give separate interpretations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u322	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u323	We still don't explain that there's an expansion of statehood in foreign policy. It is clear that it is necessary to write down "the principles of politics in the area of state-building". Then it will be clear that we must respect the world community, the European community, that we are exercising international laws and law. That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u324	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to delete the word “internal” in the article “The principles of internal policy in the area of state-building”. That's the logic. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[20:16:11]] For 242 Correction accepted. Yuri Carmazin, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u325	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, you have passed the amendment of 58 and 59, which was rejected by the committee, which is an amendment by the national MP of Logwinenka. And the content of these amendments is extremely important and absolutely constitutional. This is to complement part 3 of article 2 with a new paragraph: “Keeping the territorial integrity of the State and the inviolability of its borders and protecting the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens, legal persons abroad and providing assistance under international law”. It's also about our sailors who are captured, and now they're hostages, and it's about protecting the state, preserving its territorial integrity and the integrity of the borders. If we are against these basic principles, which are written down and constitutional and disregarded, then I do not understand that this is obviously not going to be the Supreme Council. I propose to reject the amendment, or disagree with the committee and consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u326	Dear colleagues, the MP has the right to, to the great regret, demand that any amendment be voted on. I'm willing to vote on Amendment 58. [[20:17:59]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Yes, John the Rabbit, 63 amendments. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u327	I suggest you write that down. The development of Ukraine as a sovereign national state developing in existing borders on the basis of the exercise by the Ukrainian nation of its inherent right to self - determination. People's deputies, I'll remind you that we're on our way to the 20th anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. I do hope that the Supreme Council will take a decision, and there will be solemn assemblies here, as in any other parliament, not ignoring this document. So in this document, that's what this document is about, because we've created our nation in the riverside of a European state-making tradition. It was formed as a nation-type state, I repeat, a nation-like state is a social organization based on the tradition and tradition of the nation-led nation in guaranteeing the rights of national minorities. Are you against this state? Do You Want to Destroy? Do you want to build a foreign state? It won't work, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u328	I bet on the vote of Amendment 63 of John the Rabbit. [[20:19:24]] For-12. No correction supported. Amendment 69, John the Rabbit. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u329	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Of course, there is also a farce in this room because only today after lunch did they give out a table where 423 amendments are made, so no one reads, does not know what this is about. They just listen and vote like buttonbenders and no more and no less. I suggest in this amendment that we talk specifically about which direction to improve the electoral system. Or in the direction that we've been listening to today when it's a step backwards for 10 years? Or do we have to improve the electoral system in terms of openness so that people can form the composition of the Supreme Council and the organs of local self-government to see which MP they vote for. And 50 times 50 are the deputies of these different varieties: they hid one on the list, they bought the other in the district, and so on. So I'm talking about openness, this is the direction of improving the electoral system, vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u330	I'll bet on the vote 69 of the amendment. [[20:20:54]] For the 10th. No correction supported. Amendment 71. Alexander Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u331	Dear friends! Alexander Czarvolenko, the National Movement of Ukraine, and Viacheslav Koval, the National Movement of Ukraine. Look. Improving the election system for the Supreme Council and local self - government bodies as a principle. You know, you can improve infinitely and you can improve in one way, you can in the other, everyone understands it differently. That's why I think it's completely ridiculous. In general, the text. Either it should be thrown out, or I suggest, since it is already in the text, we suggest writing instead of “improvement of the system” to write “the transparency and honesty of the election system to the Supreme Council and local self-government bodies”. And I'd like the reporter to comment on why in this case my amendment was rejected, or maybe counted, but I wasn't informed by other deputies. And Mr. Simonek would like to say that the gang system would be just as good as it would be, it would be patriotic, you know. But the Communist was anti - Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u332	Please. Dear colleagues, let's work this out. Well, please. The reply may be at the end of the discussion. Well, now that we're exchanging lines, that's not going to do anything. Well, please, let's finish the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'll tell you what's going to happen at the end. I remember giving my word. 71 amendments I'm putting to the vote. Please. [[20:22:46]] For-16 What, what? Now, now. 16th Amendment. So the 71st amendment got 16 votes, so it doesn't go through. 72nd Amendment, Gorbathuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the opposition: you know, for five years when you drove the Ukrainian people for a nose in the dark and brought them into a financial debt pit, you didn't talk about it, about the principles of foreign and domestic politics, and when the President, the government of the Ukrainian State, introduced this bill, you want to break it in the structure. It took five years to think about how to work and how to think about the future of the Ukrainian State. The proposal is that the third part of the first article “improve the system of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local self-government” should be completed and added in a new edition of “improvement of electoral legislation”. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u334	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u335	Dear colleagues, there is the rightness and all the suggestions of the previous ones, which sounded from the mouth of the deputies and the Hare and the Blacksmith and the Coworker. It is therefore proposed that the third part of the first part of Article 3 should be worded in such an edition as “improvement of electoral legislation”, without a “system”. And please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u336	I'm putting it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u337	Partly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u338	But only the word “systems” needs to be removed. Simply “improvement of electoral legislation”. [[20:24:58]] For 210 Correction not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, what is the principle? The 74th Amendment of the Blackhawk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u339	Improving the electoral system in Ukraine and local self - government bodies
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u340	Dear friends! Alexander Cronvolenko, the National Movement of Ukraine, and Viacheslav Koval, the National Movement of Ukraine. See, it says: “The modernization of the public service system. accounting on the principles of professionality, political neutrality.” We propose to write “on the principles of patriotism and orderlyness” as recorded in the National Movement of Ukraine programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u341	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 74, Alexander the Blackwolf. [[20:26:02]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 75 revisions. Are you insisting on her? It's a hunchback. Oh, no? John the Rabbit, 77 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u342	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose such a paragraph. Introduction of the Illustration Institute for the President of Ukraine, the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and State Officials of Category I-II. Our misery is that, with the creation of the Ukrainian state, we did not conduct a illustration of power. And that's why that power that's not used to living on its own has moved into the government's offices, and it's now ruling the state, and it has the mentality of that Soviet and Communist one. Kharkiv covenants have shown in particular our dependence on other influence centers, on other nations at an individual level. Because who could sign such documents and the coalition would ratify when there's not a dime of a cut in gas prices, but instead, Ukraine will have $40 billion in government debt for 10 years. That's your policy. Indeed, the people say: Stop, Father, trade, for there is nothing to give. So I suggest you write this thesis in order to clear up Ukrainian power and bring in patriots and professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u343	Dear colleagues, I am voting for 77 amendments. [[20:27:41]] For the 15th. Here John Alexander’s fine proverb, such national wisdom brought her, by the way, to repeat one of the leaders who led Ukraine to bankruptcy, to give nothing. That's right. Do you know who this is? You know? Amendment 78, Ivan Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u344	I propose to write the following entry: “The prohibition of totalitarian, fascist and communist ideology”. What am I getting out of? I come from the fact that, in the 20th century, the greatest disaster and damage to the Ukrainian nation was caused by these two ideologies -- fascist and communist. Tens of millions of people lost Ukraine, lost a flower, if you want, even an elite caste of this elite. All of this was destroyed by these totalitarian regimes. And the danger of these ideologies is understood in Europe, because there is a resolution of the Council of Europe, there is a resolution of the European Parliament that says, "Dear young states, get rid of these ideologies, get rid of these hateful practices." But we see in Ukraine, a resurgence of neostalinism, a monument of Stalin, authoritarian plants developing power in society, growing. So you have to write this chapter down, let the communists be social Democrats in Europe, everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u345	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 78. Dear colleagues! We're making this amendment, I understand you, let's say in the end, I'm asking you. [[20:29:25]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Please, Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u346	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky, the city of Harkov. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Indeed, today we are working in a very difficult, I see, regime, and the health of some deputies is clearly affected. I think we need to vote and stop after the question has been considered. Otherwise we'll have to call some ambulances. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u347	Dear colleagues! We're still working productively, the 80th amendment, Alexander Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u348	79th, I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u349	Excuse me, 79th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u350	Look, in the text of increasing responsibility and transparency in the process, it's okay, it's okay. The use of budgetary personnel is written by “central executive authorities”, law enforcement courts. I don't understand what it is, unless it's distributed to local authorities, central and local authorities. Or simply not to mention that they are central or local, the word “central” deletes or adds “central and local authorities”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u351	I'll bet you 79 votes. [[8:30:58.]] For-12. Correction not supported. In fact, the 1980s amendment applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u352	No, no, Vladimir Mikhailovich, she's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u353	One minute, it refers essentially to this line, Alexander Blackwolf's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u354	It's the '80s. Look, I'm talking about the central and locals at 79, and 80 I'm talking about the executive power. And as for the executive branch, we declare a redistribution of three branches of authority: the court, the legislative, the executive. It's probably an increase in responsibility, transparency, preparation in all branches of government. And instead, we did something like this, and we broke it apart. And I'd like to say, here's the previous speaker, so that he doesn't take any more words from the left side of our hall, so I'll tell him, we didn't take another piece of that law change, because the previous one totally set us up, it was a very good professional law. And you took a good law, you rewrote it, you threw the most intelligent things out of there, and now you're trying to make some huge scientific achievement about state building and foreign policy. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u355	I'll bet on the vote 80 of Alexander the Blacksmith's amendment. [[20:32:36]] For-13. No correction supported. The next 81 amendment, you insist on it? No, it's not. 82nd? No, it's not. 83? Dear colleagues! Here 83 amendments were made by the three national deputies, what is it? In the sentence “the provision of efficient, fair and accessible justice”, delete the word “effective”. This must be done here, for what kind of justice should be fair and accessible. Therefore, I will put to the vote this amendment with the proposal to delete the word “effective” and I ask to vote. [[20:33:30]] For 254 The amendment is supported. The point is that at 84 amendments only the author can, so let's do this. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, when the amendment is taken into account, any MP has the right to make a motion for confirmation. So let's go. Let’s do the same. 87th, Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u356	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose a paragraph of this content: “implementation of the Institute for the Declaration of Expenditures by the President of Ukraine and the National Deputies of Ukraine, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and state officials of category 1 and 3 and members of its families of category 2”. Why do I do that? Because all the political forces, when they went to the polls, they declared exactly the kind of policy that they needed to know what kind of money a politician was living on, whether it had a small salary or a small one, but it would cost 300-400 thousand dollars to go into these air conditioners and to see the world of God, the planes are flying, and please prove that you have legitimate funds for all of these things. And it's going to be a real fight against corruption, but we have this kind of institution, but we're always voting to put it off, put it off and put it off, let it be a fundamental principle that it's going to cleanse power from corruption, it's going to bring about social justice in general. Support the national MPs for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u357	Yes, respectable colleagues, help. According to the law that enters into force on January 1st, there is a declaration of income and expenditure by those officials who are. Along with the author’s insistence, let’s put her to the vote. It will be, as of January 1, 2011, everyone will declare income and expenditure, everyone will be first in line with each other, and then everyone else. They will, they will. There's a vote coming. [[20:36:01]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'll do it by name, don't worry. Yes, John the Rabbit, 94.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u358	No, why don't you ask other people? Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose article 4, paragraph 1, to put it this way: “The approval of local self - government is the foundation of the peoples of government. Extending the powers of the territorial communities.” What are we offered? We are invited to extend the powers of counsel. Have you forgotten about city, village, and village heads? You've forgotten that there are public organizations, that you bring all self-government to the council, that's all, your understanding. On the other hand, you bring all self-government to the district level, or to the district level, and the community where there are the biggest problems right now, where you need to find ways to solve them, where you need to secure community activities financially, authority, you don't care. So I suggest you write the formula for expanding the powers, and the potential of the communities, that's that and the council, that's both urban, rural and rural heads, and that's different self-governing organizations, public organizations. Isn't that a wise offer or you don't need it, you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u359	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 94th amendment of John the Rabbit. [[20:37:51]] Z-11. No correction supported. Yes. Let's move on. 96th, John the Hare. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u360	I insist. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I want us to write down this form: “reforming inter-budget relations with the objective of a fair and impartial distribution of social wealth between citizens and territorial communities”, sorry. See what is now stated: that reforming inter-budget relations in favour of local self-government, creating conditions for the development of regional economic autonomy. What's the economic autonomy of the regions here? What do we have as a federal state? Do we have any confederation at all? This is about the community, and today we have to talk about the potential of this community. You're backing up, contradicting norms that will work for the federalization of Ukraine, that is, for the destruction of Ukraine as a state, for the birth of contradictions in our society. Is that government policy? A policy that aims at stability? It's an anti-Ukrainian, anti-State policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u361	I'm betting on a vote of 96 of John the Rabbit's amendment. [[20:39:18]] For -14 The amendment is not accepted. Yes. 97th. Are you insisting on the amendment? No, it's not. 98th, 99th, 100th, 101st, John the Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u362	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. See what this is about. This is about improving the administrative and territorial system on the basis of economic self-sufficiency and accessibility of the administrative, administrative and social services of the consumer. So it's a language, and the function of a state is not a function of a region. So I'm proposing this principle of economic self-sufficiency to throw away. Because this can't be about territorial administrative units. Services are provided by the State. The state must guarantee levels of service for all citizens throughout the country. And you're proposing an ideology that will isolate the region from the region that will orbit Ukraine. People are good. What are you voting for?Oh, my God! What future do you care about today?Oh, my God! You want to redistribute Ukraine into three classes, as you did in 2004 only at the legislative level!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u363	101 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[20:40:52]] Z-11. No correction supported. Yes, 103 revisions. She's a blacksmith. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u364	Dear friends, I propose. Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine I propose to delete paragraph 4 of this article at all. Article 4 of Part One is deleted. Because he is not the subject of this law at all, and he has no bearing on what we are considering and therefore it is simply foolish to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u365	I'll bet you 103. [[20:41:45]] For-12. Correction not supported. The 104th John Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u366	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Janukovic is offering us cross-border cooperation to increase the competitiveness of regions as a basis for their dynamic development. I'd say it's a vulgar understanding of the ideology of the euro regions. Because we can talk about competitiveness, we can talk about entrepreneurship, we can talk about the state as a whole, we can talk about the community. We're leaving the community and taking some kind of mythical, mythical notion of a region that's completely undetermined and let's work. It's clear where this thesis is headed. It aims to create legislative grounds for developing federalism in Ukraine, forgetting local self - government, forgetting the community, forgetting people. This is the true ideology of this bill. So I'm asking the reporter to give me an answer, why isn't my amendment taken into account when I'm proposing to ensure the competitiveness of the community where people live?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u367	Dear colleagues, he has the right to base his amendment within one minute. What I can do to him. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 104. There's something you can do. We just have to put up with it and work for all of us. [[20:43:23]] For-16 105 Amendment, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u368	A similar correction to this correction. I propose that we focus on local self-government, on the community, on human beings. Once again, it's like this fucking reed region, it's completely indeterminate, it's not clear what it's all about. And what the right part of the hall wants from me, as he said I wouldn't speak, I will say, sir. If you have no argument, sit down and listen. If you don't have the knowledge, you learn, respectable people, because this is my position and I will stand for this position. I'm one of the founders of the Ukrainian state, like the entire Ukrainian people who voted in the referendum in 1991. And it is my duty to protect the Ukrainian state and to care for the people. You care about the clans, about your own pockets, so, excuse me, you won't shut my mouth and I'll still say what I want. It's a big job, almost a hundred amendments I've made. Do such a job, or you do not have the intelligence!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u369	I'm betting on a vote of 105. Dear colleagues, within minutes, the MP speaks, and I will not interrupt him permanently. [[20:44:50]] For the 15th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, please. If we get involved in a relationship right now, we'll be working for a long time. I understand your indignation. But there's nothing I can do. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you, calmly allow me to make a case for an exclusive correction after the amendment. Do not hang these labels. 110th, Blackwolf. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u370	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear friends! Alexander Czarvolenko, Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Look, well, what we've talked about before is that this law is so uselessly written, it's so bonturbative. Well, unless you can speak to the people even the laws of that language. In the technology of investing in preparation, well, and so forth. It's about preparing the personnel. Write: “in the preparation of the personnel”. That's it. It's a normal offer. It's okay. But it's a normal, intelligent language. It's like a man who comes into the bathroom and says, "Do you have a bathroom?"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u371	Yes, turn off the microphone! Let's not talk about the bathroom anymore. Come on. For what is in anyone's mind is what he says. Take it easy, argue thesis. Please, come on. You're smart people. I'm putting an amendment to the vote. [[20:46:25]] For-9 No correction supported. 113 Amendment, John the Rabbit. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u372	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Here, the author, Mr. Janukovic, also proposes to pursue a policy of highly functional capacity for the human resources potential of the regions. Once again, I want communities, territorial communities, to be recorded here. Why? Because this is the formulation that we have, this is the ideology of building, well, a human, a human system based on regional clans. Because you know that the Donate clan is mostly taking care of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u373	Turn off the microphone, please. Take it easy. Let's do it essentially. I'm asking you essentially. I'm voting on Amendment 113. Dear colleagues! Please, it was the day - to - day propetrian clan, the Donetsk clan, the Kiiv clan. Let's work. Amendment 113. Ivan Alexanderovich! You're a smart man, please. [[20:47:26]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, calm down. Amendment 118, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u374	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose a new paragraph: “Extension of the spheres of social life regulated by civil society institutions through the transfer of parts of functions that are ineligible for public authorities and local self-government”. How do we want to solve the problem of local self - government? They say: “From here, let us deconcentrate power from the national level to the district and to the district, then we will live.” I'm saying that we need to turn some of the functions of the state into self-governance states, because no state can regulate all social relations. In a democratic state there is, so-called, civil society, there is local self-government. And a lot of relationships, it regulates itself. So let's go this way, not by increasing the function of power and actually by adopting the authoritarian regime. This is the principle of a new ideology that Ukraine must follow in order to have its future.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u375	I declare 118 amendments to the vote. [[20:48:57]] For-12. Correction granted. Amendment 121. Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u376	Alexander Czarvolenko, National Movement of Ukraine, Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine This is also the amendment of Alexander Bondar and Mr. Logwinenko. See, the completion of political reform, the strengthening of the interaction of state authorities and local self - government bodies and the unification of citizens, the establishment of public authority. We propose that the word “conclusion of political reform” be excluded. Why? Because this political reform was only lazy. We already have this formation as a reminder of, you know, such a diagnosis of “a pervasive schizophrenic disease, complicated by a reformer’s delusion”. What political reform, what outcome, what does this have to do with this law in general? How can it be so inconsequential? I suggest you throw this away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u377	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 119. 119th, there was a whole group of deputies with this amendment. [[20:50:11]] For the 15th. Amendment 121, Alexander the Blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u378	Alexander Czarvolenko, Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine See, then, the second paragraph of part one of article 5. It is proposed that the word “implementation” be replaced by the normal word “enhancement”. Because it's already working, I don't know what to do. He needs to be strengthened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u379	I'm betting on a vote of 121. [[20:50:53]] For -14 No correction supported. 123 Amendment, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u380	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose the words “the completion of political reform” to be thrown out and added “the reporting of power to its citizens”. We need to understand that political reform is a form of power organization, and civil society, as discussed in this chapter, is a third sector, distinct from both power and business. So let's not confuse these things, but develop the citizens' initiative. As far as reporting to citizens is concerned, we are well aware that our authorities are reporting very well in words, but the Kharkiv events, when so many trees were cut down, have shown that the public is not informed even of such irritable social things as the destruction of green plants, or the deterioration of the ecological situation. Therefore, the principle of continuous reporting of power to citizens must be implemented, and political reform must not be confused with the structures of civil society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u381	I'll bet you a vote on 123 of the amendment. [[20:52:14]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Amendment 126. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u382	Jojik, it's Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u383	We've already voted on this amendment, it's not supported. Dear colleagues, 124 amendments virtually repeat amendment 123. Please, Jojik. Dear colleagues! Please, calm down. You think I'm getting a lot of pleasure here reading these amendments. Let's just calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u384	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please add time. Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! I would like to stress that today we have an unprecedented event when today we've handed out amendments to the second reading and with 423 amendments, three are only accounted for and are the leader of the Alexander Ephraim Party faction. 420 is off-limits. So I think the purpose of this bill is not only to question the Euro-Atlantic choice and to make another attack on Ukrainian language, but also to demonstrate the principle of aluminum that no opinion of the guarantor of the Constitution can be questioned. I would like to stress that those 420 amendments represent the opposition that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u385	I'm betting on a vote of 124. I've taken your time. I'm asking you, Your Honor, it was a political manifesto. We'll have it when the factions come out, there'll be manifests. Please. [[20:54:03]] For-13. Correction not supported. 126 revisions. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u386	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Again, I am surprised by this narrowed understanding that is “civil society”. The authors of this law are Yanukovic. I see that the coalition supports – it understands civil society, it brings it only to the unification of citizens. And please tell me, is the Church a structure of civil society or not? Is the union a civil society structure or not? Yes, these are the structures of civil society. But according to this document, nothing is said about them here, and they don't want to say anything. That's why I'm proposing to extend this principle and extend it to civil society institutions, to all civil society institutions, because it's important to us and the Church, for us, it's important to the unions where. That's why citizens defend their rights. I don't understand what you're yelling at. Do you not understand what I am saying? So read an elementary textbook on political science, and you'll know what I'm talking about. Therefore, we need to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u387	I'm betting on the 126th amendment. Dear colleagues, calm down, calm down! [[20:55:27]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 127th Amendment, please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u388	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose this new paragraph: “The simplification at the legislative level of the functioning of citizens’ associations, in particular in the part of reporting and taxation of public organisations”. You know that from all over Ukraine, complaints come to us because of the highly regulated reporting, the highly regulated issue of taxation. And it's not a business that has money, that's all, a big business that has money to have in its accounting, to do these daily reports and so on. I'm proposing to simplify the conditions for the functioning of public organizations, which will contribute to the development of civil society. That's what's going to keep power from going to authoritarianism, that's what's going to develop freedom in our society. Don't you, national MPs, understand that? For you, more than anything else, do you want nothing more in this life? I want us to have a democratic state, I want us to have a free man, so I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u389	I'll bet on the vote on John the Rabbit's 127th amendment. [[20:56:56]] For -14 Correction not supported. Amendment 129, no. 130th, Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u390	Alexander Czarvolenko, National Movement of Ukraine, Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Dear friends, we propose in paragraph 4 of the first article of the fifth word “and responsibility” to remove. What are we talking about? I say that for those who don't follow the text, and for many, unfortunately. This is about increasing the role and responsibility of political parties. And so on. To increase the role, that's clearly how we can do it, we did it today's law, when the city heads are being promoted only by political parties. That's understandable. How are you going to increase the responsibility of political parties? I want to remind you that the party is part of the definition society. Party is part of it. Increasing the responsibility of the party is the same as increasing the responsibility of society. So how do you think you're going to do that? To shut down political parties, as you suggest, or to prevent those who vote earlier in the year, or to strengthen state control, control over law enforcement, and fiscal authorities? The parties can only answer to their members. But this is the norm of the Law on political parties, not this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u391	I'll bet you the vote on Amendment 130. [[20:58:24]] For the 15th. No correction supported. 131 Amendment, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u392	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. This is about the structures of civil society, about the organization of citizens. And what does author Mr. Janukovic offer us to hold regular public consultations? What kind of public? Because there's an organized society, there's a society that's not organized. That is why I propose to add “and social organisations”. Because that's what happens very often. The authorities need to consult with the citizens. They took their people to these so - called public hearings, beat up the real people, rejected the organized structures of the citizens, and left, and left. So let's create a democratic state, let's create mechanisms that allow people to protect their interests, particularly environmental ones. You see, all the green plantings are being destroyed, sports, physical infrastructure is being built, and we don't want this principle to be implemented, because we want power because we want to see, give us authority, the media, we're going to put everybody away. Don't do it!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u393	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 131. [[20:59:50]] For-13. Correction not supported. 132-ha, no insistence. 133rd, Kovalevska. Don't insist. 134th, Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u394	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I propose to strengthen this very language that we are discussing by supplementing the text on the holding of the All-Ukrainian and local referendums as effective forms of national expression. We will continue to consider the draft Law on the Referendum, because I think this is exactly what this article will be expanding. But at the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that people are speaking to me about what is civil. The unification of citizens should be replaced with civil society institutions. The same author’s further amendment states that simplification at the legislative level of the functional unification of citizens. What further can I say, respectable voters? You will note that the orange team has left the hall completely and is not participating in the discussion of one of the most serious laws. The formula is: The circus is gone, and a couple of clowns are left to go on and tell you what they're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u395	Dear colleagues! Please complete the formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u396	And yet another respected colleague, I want you to understand, distinguished voters, when it comes to economic regions, that there is a Transnistrian Economic Region in Ukraine, the Black Sea Economic Region, in this case this people's MP just doesn't know what he's talking about and is silently discussing this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u397	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on the 134th amendment. [[21:01:49]] For 203 Correction. One minute, who's in charge of going back to the 134th Amendment? Come back. [[21:02:12]] For 242 We're back. 242 ‘for’. I'm betting on the vote of 134 Peter Simonek. [[21:02:30.]] For 244 Correction accepted. John Hare 135th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u398	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose to write down the principle of separating business from power by means of state funding and the activities of parliamentary political parties. You know that in 2003 there were voted amendments to the Political Parties Act, which provided for the state funding of parliamentary parties. This secured the parties from financing these oligarchic clans. I understand that the clans are comfortable with having these parties as pocket money, financing them, and protecting their interests, not their national interests. Because you know that the whole civilized world is funding the parties right out of the government pocket, which could be controlled by how this party works or legally what it does. And we have everything to do to establish the clan organization of the party, the clan organization of power, not democratic power. That's why I'm proposing this principle. And I think that's where you have to write it down, because you're making the rules, the document that's above the Constitution. It's a shame who doesn't support these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u399	I bet on the vote of Amendment 135. [[21:04:02]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Amendment 136. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u400	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I've already said that civil society is not just a citizen union, it's also a church, it's a trade union. I propose to write this paragraph here: “Guarantee the real independence of all trade unions and their participation in a tripartite partnership with business and power”. Because you know that our government has unions that it loves and cherishes, and there are independent unions that are now in the role of pastures. But they are united citizens, they are structures that protect their interests. So the democratic state, the democratic power, it's interested that all the professional organizations of all types have the opportunity, have the equality, we'll say that. That's why I'm proposing this standard to raise the trade movement to protect the rights of citizens you don't want, you don't need these mechanisms, you need to be a poor person on another pole, and you're robbing this person because of power, because of big money.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u401	I bet on the vote on Amendment 136. [[21:05:29]] For -14 No correction supported. Amendment 137, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u402	I propose to write this paragraph: “to assist religious communities in overcoming church conflicts and to provide conditions for the creation of a single local church”. Why am I proposing such a recording? Because the church is a structure of civil society and the authorities are interested in eliminating any conflict that arises in any civil society structure. So in this case, it's a perfectly normal function of power. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't scream or interrupt if you don't understand anything about this. That's why I propose that the state will contribute to the end of these conflicts, and that we need the only local church -- we're an independent state, we have to have the only local church that will work for the unity of a nation that will work for the unification of citizens that will help every human being in their rights, not split them up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u403	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 137. [[21:06:53]] For-13. Correction not supported. Amendment 138, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u404	John Rabbit of the Ukrainian People's Party. My amendment is aimed at introducing a new paragraph “to create conditions for the unhindered receipt of information by groups of initiative and other civil society institutions on all vital issues that concern citizens. Clearly, the openness of authority cannot be ensured without access to information and from the citizen’s side. It is clear that democracy requires such access that citizens know the situation so that they do not face the facts. But even so, do not forget the rest of our international obligations, under international obligations, such as the Aarhus Convention, citizens have the right to access information on environmental issues. You know, it's all hidden in us, and every year less and less information goes to the citizens. We need to break this trend, we need to get access to information about what the government is doing, and you don't understand it, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u405	I'll bet you a vote of 138. [[21:08:20]] For -14 Correction not supported. Correction of 142nd. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u406	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. If you, the national MPs, Mr. President, the coalition and the government understood the world we are living in, you would never have proposed the principle of non-blocking. The fact is that today there is a solidarity principle in the world, not only individual nations are competing among themselves today, but the goal of conglomerate nations. And so today, there is the principle of security, economic, military, information, environmental, and so on. You think that with one country you can be strategic partners in the military, and with another in the economic, and with another in the environmental, or in some kind of informational. That's not the case, so I suggest you write down the principle of the integrity of military, economic, environmental, energy, social, humanitarian and informational security. It is this vision that allows us to find the real place of Ukraine in the world security system, in general, in the system of international law and international position. Don't you get it? You think in the 19th century when you don't support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u407	I'm betting on a vote of 142. [[21:09:51]] For-9 No correction supported. Amendment 143. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I thought Mr. President would propose such an amendment was to prevent illegal migration. Sadly, none of the members of the majority have made such an adjustment. And you all know that today illegal migration is one of the global threats to any state. That this threat can be prevented only by collective efforts. That we now have hundreds of thousands of people in Ukraine who have illegally infiltrated Ukraine, taken over a particular sector of the economy, brought us weapons, drugs, not traditional for our region of disease. Or are you doing this on a special basis? Because you want to solve the demographic problem, not with internal resources, but through migration. Maybe you want illegal migrants to have profits like cheap labor? Perhaps you want to use them against the patriots of Ukraine? People good, every state has to regulate illegal migration -- alpha and omega of international activity today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u408	I'll bet you a vote on 143 of the amendment. [[21:11:21]] For the 10th. No correction supported. Amendment 144. Alexander Ephraim, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u409	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I understand that each of the people's deputies has the right to have an opinion. But that does not mean that in expressing his point of view, he should humiliate his colleagues. Vladimir Mihajlovich, as President, I ask you to comment to the Zajc people's representative for his inadvertently allowing other deputies to say things that we do not even imply, and he attributed them to us. And if he allows this to happen again, we will demand that he be deprived of his word, in accordance with the Rules and the procedure laid down therein. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u410	Dear colleagues, I address all of you and ask you, let's argue an amendment, not show your flexible mind, especially when it's too small.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u411	I'm talking to everyone. [[Applause]] To everyone. I respect you all equally, I love you all, but let's not cross the line. Anything, please. Amendment 146 Costenko, Rabbit, Jojik. Please, John Alexanderovich's microphone. Who's going to be, like, a jojik or a hare?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u412	Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u413	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Once again, I want to remind you that none of the 420 amendments proposed by the opposition have passed. I want to remind you that in the 2007 elections, the opposition today received the majority, and today's coalition has just 217 bayonets, which means that today's authorities want to form a course that is contrary to the interests of Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u414	Correction, please, microphone. On the right. The amendment does not provide for that. Take it easy. I'm sorry. Don't warn me. I'm sorry. There'll be factions from the faction, you'll warn. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u415	You took half a minute from me. Please add. Unsolved accession to NATO obliges the Ukrainian authorities to ensure the country’s security on an appropriate scale. However, Ukraine’s realities are that all previous years of military funding have not provided or been sufficient. Therefore, the conduct of an examination of the state of the Armed Forces is a mandatory attribute for Ukrainian society to know the real state, the Ukrainian society, and to put a slugbaum. There are political forces that allow
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u416	Thank you. Thank you, thank you, you've made your point. Well, please. Dear colleagues, please, please, and please, let us be calm. I'm putting to the vote 146 amendments. [[21:14:34]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. That's how we keep going. 150th Amendment. Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u417	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. So I propose in paragraph 5 of part one of article 6, the word “supplely” is deleted. Mr. Tomenko, Mr. Logwinenko, feels the same way. It's about securing. on the provision of a gradual transition and. Ukraine’s military forces are on a contractual basis. You know, this is progressive, we've been going over and over for 20 years and we're not going to get over it, and the results aren't very visible. And this can be done quickly, decisively, and it will be perfectly normal. We have to make a regular professional army highly paid, at least it can be functioning no worse than our police, the Security Service and other structures, if we make them truly professional. So let us not, however, write the word “progressively”. For once the word “progressively” is written, we will never receive a transition to a professional army. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u418	I bet on the vote amendment of 149 members of the People's Party of the Blacksmith, Logwinenko and Tomenko. [[21:15:54]] For-9 No correction supported. Amendment 150. Nitrogen microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u419	I'm still being complemented here by Deputy Koval, because it's a joint amendment. It sounds like we're going to get the Armed Forces assembled on a contractual basis. We have to emphasize this point, because if we let other possibilities happen again, we'll never get a modern army. And the modern army is, above all, highly professionalism, high technology. And the suitor can't be prepared like that. You want to have a nation that's ready to protect its state, let's go to school, in colleges we're going to start military training programs like this, and it wasn't a bad system, by the way. We can do this, but we have an army to make professional. I insist on taking that into account. Here we are, already from Mr. Ephraim’s listed amendment, primarily according to the specialties that determine the effectiveness of the divisions. We don't need specialties that don't determine the reliability of the units, but it's these specialties that become free, and they're professional, and they're professional. So everything has to be unquestionably professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u420	I'm betting on a vote of 150. [[21:17:21]] For-13. The amendment is not counted. Amendment 151, John the Rabbit. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u421	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't think I'm going to get in the way and be deprived of words. And I will not be forbidden to appreciate the activity of power. It's my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u422	Please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u423	Well, that's right. It's my business, as I say. So this is a familiar truth that's 2,000 years old. It was formed by the ancient Romans. Anyone who does not want to feed his army will feed a foreign army. That's why I proposed such an amendment. Funding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces at the cost of the state budget is no less than 2 percent of the gross domestic product of the current year. We are well aware that we are living in a very harsh world. And this pacifism, which seems to be demonstrated by power, is not pacifism. This is technology after the destruction of our nation. That is why I propose to fund the Ukrainian Armed Forces at the proper level. They're people who risk their lives, they're people who want to have security to carry out serious tasks of protecting the state and protecting the rights of citizens. So vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u424	I bet on the vote of 151 John the Hare. [[21:18:50]] For 20 No correction supported. Amendment 152. Ivan Aleksandrovitch's microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u425	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose such an amendment. Support and development of a national-military industrial complex through systematic purchases of new weapons. That's what I'm getting out of. I come from the fact that even our current military-industrial complex is one of the islands of modern technology. Today it is a military assignment. Tomorrow, with a normal economy, normal government will have a civil dimension, i.e. a civilian assignment. So you will never sell weapons to another state if you do not buy them for your own state. Why don't we have AN-70 today? But because we make politics so that we don't buy it! And we're told, if you don't have it on your own, why are you selling it to us? Therefore, we need to pursue a wise policy. We need to support the CAP, we need to finance it through procurement and give new technology a chance. Let's go to an information society, let's go to a new society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u426	I'm betting on a vote of 152. [[21:20:19]] For-13. No correction supported. Yes, amendment 156. Peter Simonenko. Are you insisting on her? Oh, no? Peter Simonenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u427	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support my amendment 156, because it complements the amendment of Ephraim 153, where it concerns new types of military technology and weapons. And I propose that you correct that disgraceful, treasonous policy that was conducted by an orange man led by Commander Yushchenko when a military-industrial complex was destroyed through what was called conversion. So I'm proposing, first of all, this is the completion of the formation and development of the national defence complex, and second of all, this is the introduction of the public procurement practice. And this is going to be a logical complement to the amendment of Ephraim, so that you and I can get back to reestablishing the main institution of statehood, that's enough defense. What they did to the orange is understandable. It was the destruction of the defence complex for the sake of what the foreign armies of Nath, in their opinion, were to be here in the territory of Ukraine. And we have to re-establish our national institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u428	Dear colleagues, please. I'm asking you all, let's just talk about repairs. We'll save the time. 156 amendments, I put it to a vote. Please vote. [[21:22:10]] For 245 Correction accepted. Yeah, let's move on. Amendment 164, John the Rabbit. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u429	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose to write "to ensure the competitiveness of the national economy through integrity, integrity". Why do I say that? Because we don't have whole sectors of the economy. These are all the glaciers that are now screaming here, in the early 1990s, after the Ukrainian economy came out of the national economic complex of the former Soviet Union, these broken technological cycles would have to be somehow integrated, filled. They shouted, “It’s a production bond!” Seven years of screaming until the economy fell. And now another state is being blamed. So without restoring the whole sectors of the economy today, of the agricultural machinery industry, without the other sectors, we will not have an efficient economy. An efficient economy has a menu, a certain set of branches, and today high-tech so without such integrity without the full structurality of the perspective. So I'm formulating such a strategic vision and I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u430	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 164. [[21:23:46]] For the 10th. No correction supported. 165 revisions. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u431	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. We're offered the development of the internal market, but they don't tell us which way. I would like to shape the direction of the internal market and therefore propose to write down such words, to add “on the basis of the production of the national producer and the implementation of the State import policy”. If you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, hadn't interrupted me, then I'd have said there's a Kiev-Danish clan that's doing an import-type economy here, and one's doing export-related. Where do we have a big business? Where is the national policy to build an internal market based on the production of a national producer? There is no such policy. There is no big business. That's why there's no jobs. That's why our citizens' salary is low. That's why I'm saying, if we want to build an internal market, which is the largest market for any state, we have to build it with the support of a national producer. This is also true of agriculture, this is also about industry, it's about tourism and other things. Please tell me what you don't like.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u432	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the 165th amendment. And while the vote is coming, I'm going to say, I don't understand what the committee was doing, there's a number of things that are obvious, and I should have taken them into account. And now we'd be adopting the law and not doing what we do. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I'm saying. [[21:25:17]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 167th Amendment, Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u433	I'm actually suggesting that the reporter sit down because he doesn't answer my questions. And we finally came to the conclusion that my amendments were smart. Therefore, another amendment is to reduce the use of foreign currencies in domestic currency. What is foreign currency? This means that financial risks are translated from financial structures into our citizens. Have you forgotten the 98th year, haven't you forgotten the current years, when a jump in the course immediately brought our people together by 50 percent? So any state works on national currency. There is the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that a monetary unit is a bracelet. And we're issuing loans in foreign currencies, and we're doing calculations in foreign currencies, and that's why we're undermining the foundations of the economy today. That's why I'm proposing to base the economy on the use of our currency -- bracelets. Then there'll be a stable economy, then there'll be national interests. So my offer again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is correct, but these people also need foreign currency to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u434	Thank you. I'm voting on the 167th amendment. And Vasil Vasilovich, why don't you sit here? You've been standing for two hours. If you have to, you'll be right there. Sit here somewhere. What will you stand for? [[21:26:48]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Amendment of the 170th, Ivan Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u435	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u436	170th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u437	170th. The point of this amendment is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u438	The '70s!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u439	170th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u440	I heard the '80s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u441	Let's do it sometime. They've already beaten me. The point of this amendment is to protect infrastructure, not just to develop a mythical one, but to protect infrastructure and what is, and to create new places. That's the point of this amendment. And it's about budget tools. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u442	I'm betting on a vote of 170 of John the Rabbit's amendment. [[21:27:48]] For-9 Correction not supported. 171 revisions. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u443	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose to write down the legislative anchoring of Ukraine's maximum government debt. That's the norm we put in a year. But there are many hidden forms of borrowing. This is government trade, securities, these are all guarantees for corporate borrowing. And if we put this together, we really have to say that the government debt of Ukraine is actually more than three times the official figure. It's a threat to the Ukrainian state, it's creating conditions for the default, it's creating conditions for the default, it's creating conditions for the destruction of our economy. So we have to look at it strategically and write down this rule, for example, for how long there is a time, that no longer than this level, we can have a government debt, we can track this government debt not over a year, because year after year this debt is increasing, but we can think far ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u444	I'll bet you 171 amendments. [[21:29:14]] For -14 No correction supported. Amendment 174, Ivan Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u445	What are we talking about? I suggest you put it in this form. Partial transfer of tax burden from labour and capital to consumption, pollution of the natural environment, and resource environmental payments. What are we talking about? The language is that in the information age, where natural capital, natural resources are limited to human civilization. Today the world moves from taxation of the social sphere to taxation of the use of natural resources, to pollution of the environment, because if there is no clean environment, social policies cannot be effectively pursued. If there are no energy-saving technologies, resource savings will not be an efficient economy, so in order to start this mechanism, you need to think about tax reorientations right now. It's all a living world, Europe, and we're still living in the 19th century, so please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u446	I'll bet you a vote of 174. [[21:30:41]] For-12. No correction supported. 175th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u447	Rabbit, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose limiting the presence of foreign capital in the capital of the banking system. Let's face it, today probably a fraction of the 60 banking system is no longer Ukrainian capital. We're also talking about WTB, government structures, and it's not a market economy at all, it's the hand of another state. And the banking system is money, it's finance, it's blood for any economy. So when we have such a large share of foreign capital in the banking system, that means that we're putting our economy, our society at great disadvantage. This means that we will never develop preemptive crisis-reduction measures, and somehow we will act effectively. Again, all nations today limit such things if you turn to European experience, you will see that in the banking system. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking these deputies who came to me, to step away from me, they're preventing me from talking. If it's the Party of the Regions tactics,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u448	I beg of you, Your Honor, let's take our seats and work. Stop it, please. I'm betting on the 175th amendment. Please. [[21:32:18]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Amendment 178. John the Rabbit microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u449	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I say once again, let the MPs leave the Party and don't talk, and don't bother me, it's your function here. 178th Amendment. I propose not to increase the level of investor protection in general, but to protect not only bank investors, but also to protect non-bank investors, such as credit companies, in particular insurance companies. We need to understand that we are going into a world where the pension funds will be private and all of this needs to be protected. If the state is not protecting citizens today outside banking structures, I don't think we're ever going to find the resources that are needed for today's economy. Because each of you knows that according to the National Bank 169 million dollars are currently in the citizens' hands. And this 169 billion, sorry, the bracelet could be in the economy today. But there's no mechanism for protecting citizens across the line, both banking structures do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u450	I'll bet you a vote of 178. [[21:33:51]] Z-11. No correction supported. It's an amendment to the 180th. She's a volunteer microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u451	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Viacheslav Koval “The People’s Movement of Ukraine”. Dear friends, these paragraphs I propose to delete paragraph 12 of the first article, and one between the previous and the next. Because they are not the norm of this legislation. You will listen to the introduction of market tools, accumulations, and redistribution of long-term financial resources, including through the introduction of mandatory accruals. I would like to ask the Communists, you support the idea of a mandatory accrual pension. If so, why didn't you put her in 90 years ago, and if not, why is that written? The other one. Development. A transparent, reliable stock market is the norm of this law, it is not necessary to confuse and increase the level of protection of investor rights, to raise and raise, to raise and raise the money that has been lost in the USSR Savings then to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u452	180 amendments I put to the vote. [[21:35:22]] For-9 No correction supported. The next amendment is 183 John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u453	181.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u454	Where's 181? Oh, I'm sorry, 181.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u455	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. I propose to implement the principle of ensuring proper control of foreign investments in Ukraine from what do I come out? There are two problems. One problem is the quality of these investments, because you know that a lot of speculative investments go into Ukraine and that's why they destroy the financial and economic system. We need portfolio investment -- that is, investment in specific economic recovery projects is a second problem, if investments are non-marketable, private, and public investment is as much as the GTB itself, for example, or other things -- that means that we are launching a capital that is not governed by market economy laws, but managed by foreign governments. I'll tell you that the United States has restricted the action of the so-called so-called so-called so-called solidarity funds, they've restricted, and the French and the Russians who wanted to buy ports there. That's why I'm offering it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u456	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 181. [[21:36:54]] For-9 [[It's not me, it's the Supreme Council's decision, I'm doing the Supreme Council's will, I understand.]] . Correction not supported. 183 John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u457	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. We are invited to accept the following paragraph: “Guarantee by the State of the integrity of all forms of property”. You are well aware that guaranteeing the integrity of all forms of property means that they will steal property from each other as is necessary. Therefore, it is necessary to write down “equivalence of forms of property”, then there will be no raids by raiders. So I kind of think that maybe most people are preparing for market allocations, maybe most people are preparing for the distribution of property and that's why they're writing these formulas. So my amendment is aimed at really ensuring the equality of ownership forms, to really guarantee the right to property, whether it's state or municipal or private. This formulation, which you're going to vote for, means that people just want to write down the formula, and under this formula, they want to make further looting and redistribution of property. This is wrong, it is not necessary for Ukraine to have transparency in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u458	I'm betting on a vote of 183. [[21:38:34]] Z-11. Correction not supported. 184th. Microphone, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u459	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. We're only offered to simplify the license system. But we understand very well that we have a major complication with the licensing institute. We have such an extended licensing system that it's holding back entrepreneurial freedom, it's holding back entrepreneurship. If you take construction, for example. We have the building business itself licensed, and within the building business itself, specific types are licensed. And not always, well, it's a danger or something. So I would like to add to the simplification of the licensing system, if we're thinking about freedom of enterprise, if we're thinking about a rapid recovery of the economy. If we're not thinking, and we're playing, if we're just saying reform, and we're actually going to drive the economy into a deadlock, then leave the norm that you've proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u460	I'm betting on a vote of 184. [[21:39:57]] For -14 No correction supported. Amendment 188, John the Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u461	This is a very interesting amendment; it is about recording the introduction of European approaches in the field of delegation of individual regulatory functions to operators and their associations. What are we talking about? The fact is that not only does the state have to regulate processes, there are so - called professional organizations that organize themselves. Such associations were created, for example, in the field of stock markets, and I would refer to such organizations and agricultural services. But the very absence of agricultural cooperatives leads to our agricultural economy being fuelled. So let's just think that a state from one center can't regulate all processes. Very many processes need to be passed on to the very level of these same organizing associations, as has been done around the world, this trend is set in Ukraine. But I'm afraid if you leave the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u462	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 188. [[21:41:31]] For -14 No correction supported. 191st Amendment. Nitrogen microphone. Alexander Czarvolenko, National Movement of Ukraine and Viacheslav Koval National Movement of Ukraine Dear friends, I suggest the 21st paragraph of the section, we suggest that part 7 be removed. Look at what's written here, this is the level of the student's 1st paper: “Increasing investment and innovation activities, especially through the encouragement of enterprise costs.” Where is the encouragement, what encouragement, what encouragement, what is “intensification of investment and innovation”? That's a stupid phrase. If you want to promote and stimulate investment, write in a normal human language. By the way, it's the last one. Good conditions for economic agents in the legal field. If it's legal, it's legal. And if it's legal, it's legal. Why are these two legal fields!? What is an illegal legal field? And who are economic agents? What new ideas do we have? Well, it's written carelessly, it's written senselessly, for an incomprehensible purpose. Why was it copied?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u463	I'm betting on a vote of 191. Dear colleagues, let us no longer torment the reporter. Everyone here performs their function. Let's vote now. You're torturing me now, so don't torture the MP. [[21:42:55]] Z-11. Dear colleagues, I offer you. It was necessary to draft the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics. Bring it in. I want to say it again. Bring it in. Unfortunately, they failed. Now let's work with what we have. Dear colleagues, please. Please. Amendment 192. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u464	Rabbit, Ukrainian People's Party. This is about the institution of state-law partnership. What does that mean? It's when a state delegatees its public functions to the private sector. And here this delegation is proposed to make only investments in industrial modernization and social infrastructure. I would like to add, provided that hidden privatization of state property is avoided and that its social function is not reduced. Because everyone knows a lot of examples when a state delegatees its functions to private people. They turn this property into their personal belongings. They do not carry out the social purpose of this function, and this is a wide field from the homes of the elderly to the construction of roads, to the transportation of citizens and many other things. So you have to have, understand the goal that social orientation needs to be maintained, and that's not to steal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u465	I'm betting on a vote of 192. [[21:44:49]] For-12. Correction not accepted. 193. Eugene Marmazov. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Ivan Hare, 195th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u466	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know that from today's foundation of foreign and domestic politics, it's a brilliant document, and this document is illegal, unconstitutional, if you read the conclusions of our administration. So I wouldn't want us to tarnish that document, and this totally imperfect, harmful national interest document was being posted. And now for my correction. I propose not to allow entry into the economy of Ukraine of a state-owned foreign capital controlled by foreign governments, particularly sovereign investment funds. I've already explained that we're interested in private investment, but we're not interested in capital that runs foreign governments. For example, I'm saying, the Russians can say, BTS and other things. Because this capital does not work under market laws, it acts according to the direction of its governments. And governments use such investments, such capitals to destroy competitiveness. And we've been watching this in our sugar, dairy factories, and we're going to be in high-tech areas right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u467	I'm betting on the 195th amendment. [[21:46:25]] For -14 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 197. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u468	197, I'm sorry. 197. The point is that after the word “their own production” it should be supplemented by the words “the implementation of state energy conservation policy”. The point is that we want to solve the energy problem by expanding just our own production, by using energy carriers there, but we have to declare a conservation policy, we have to declare a state policy. And only when citizens see that power has such a policy. We can reduce energy dependence on states. We can raise the efficiency of the economy. So what I'm proposing is that I write down a thesis on the implementation of state energy conservation policy. That's where the whole world's going. We want to consume resources three times as much as in the world and have an efficient economy. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u469	I'm betting on a vote of 197 amendments. [[21:47:53]] For the 15th. Dear colleagues! It's just an amendment. I'm telling you again, I'm explaining. The author of the amendment. I mean, it was a mistake. Because any MP can speak if the amendment is counted and he insists that it be put to the vote. So I've already mentioned the error. Dear colleagues! Well, come on, don't come. ‘For’ – 15. Correction not supported. Next. 202th, Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u470	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. This is about supporting the village. It's all about trends, about the village strategy. I also want to add an amendment that aims at developing a farm type. This form can provide land ownership in the hands of Ukrainians. That is how form can solve the problems of the village. Because the farming type is when a person lives and processes this land. When she's with this land. We're on our way to the latifunda today. By the way of furniture. Today, we have become a total tenant in Kiev or another city of the great financial tycoon, buying this land, bringing its own people, its technology, its sowing, and its own collection. The animals were destroyed. Rural, well, agriculture has been brought to three cultures and there is no village today. Only farmers can save the village today. I ask you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u471	I bet on the vote of Amendment 202. [[21:49:50]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Amendment 203, John the Rabbit. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u472	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you want to sleep, you want to eat, but you're going to have to listen to my suggestions to the end. I propose to write this thesis: “Ensure the manufacturer of fair purchase prices for his production.” [[It's about agriculture.]] Because you know very well that today the purchase prices for agricultural products are very small, that today there is a large monopolization in the sphere of so-called purchases, in the sphere of so-called intermediaries. And today, actually, a peasant gets a penny for working in this field from early to late at night. And the one who took the product at no cost had a profit of 300 to 400 percent. So finally let's formulate the right principle, it's still going to redistribute the extra cost today, even if it's relative to the manufacturer's benefit, because if you don't produce, there's not going to be anything to sell. And we're already seeing this in our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u473	I'll bet the vote on amendment 203. [[21:51:20]] For-12. No correction supported. Amendment 205. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u474	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I propose a new paragraph: “Encouraging the development of agricultural cooperatives, particularly agricultural cooperatives”. You know we have the Cooperation Act, we have the Service Cooperation Act, and we don't have access to them. Why? Because we don't want agriculture to develop effectively today, we don't want to save the village, we want to exploit the village today, we want to exploit our land. Finally, we need to understand that without agricultural cooperatives, we will be dependent, as we are now dependent on foreign agriculture and much more on something else. So, MPs, I'm not just bringing this amendment here, I'm asking you to speed up the creation of a legislative base just for the development of farm workers. All the authorities promise to do something here, but they don't do anything. Well, let's say most people vote here if you don't want to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u475	I bet on the vote of Amendment 205. [[21:52:51]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Amendment 208, John the Rabbit. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u476	We've been offered by the President to form an infrastructure for the land market. And what I'm proposing is to take a closer look at this problem and say that, if it does reach the land market, only the natural person and the Ukrainian citizen can own this land, and that it should have a limited amount of land, and that all of these right-of-law ownership documents should provide for this owner. Because it's not a secret that there's a whole bunch of bills where they want to extend ownership to legal persons who want to sell agricultural land to legal persons. So you're very well aware that under these conditions, foreign capital will buy up all of Ukrainian land in two days, and we'll land the Ukrainians, we'll land the peasants, we'll make our economy vulnerable, we won't control our territory. So vote here for the land to be in the hands of Ukrainians, not in the hands of foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u477	I'm betting on a vote of 208. [[21:54:22]] Z-11. 209 Amendment, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u478	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. In order to bring about an arrangement of agricultural property, honourable deputies need not just limit the number of lands in one hand. And we have to limit the number of lands and one farm, or we're going to have a latifund. We're going to have magnets that live away from the village and have 200, 300,000 hectares of land. They will focus on their economic interests, will not see the peasant for their income, nor will they see the village. So Europe, which develops by farming, has limitations. It thus ensures competition in agriculture and control over its territory. So my amendment is to limit the size of agricultural land to one enterprise. Then we'll have hundreds of thousands of enterprises and then we can manage effectively, not be afraid that one structure will fail and half-Ukraine will fail. You understand all the risks well. Where you lead Ukraine without support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u479	For 200. Ouch. I'm sorry. I'm betting on the vote 209 amendment. And while the vote is coming and I would ask my respectable colleagues not to make a discovery that everyone is taking Ukraine somewhere, you know where she should go. They're here. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, you're a smart man, let's be calmer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[21:55:54]] For-13. Jaroslav Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u480	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to stress that it's already 4 o'clock, and we haven't even come up with half of all the amendments yet. So it's predicted that we'll finish this discussion at 2 p.m. How does the world community know that Ukraine revised its NATO course at 2 p.m.? Obviously, you are not concerned about the matter. So I suggest you talk about it. That the hall has decided to work, but the hall can decide to move the matter to tomorrow. Please ask the question of looking at it for tomorrow. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u481	Dear colleagues! First, the Supreme Council made a decision. Secondly, when we started discussing the issue, we have to finish it. And honourable colleagues, it's no big deal that all the parliaments of the world work properly when it comes to making decisions. So I am convinced that colleagues who have gone are going to have dinner and come to work. Honorable fellow workers! And what's more, since we've already considered half the amendments, it's going to be easier. All of it. 221st Amendment, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u482	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not find in this document words about middle class, or people who are economically free of power and who provide their lives with the necessary level of wage, other incomes. So I'm proposing to make an amendment that's the whole point of implementing the State policy of forming a mass middle class. Because you know that only the middle class, that is, the people who have wealth, they're carriers of traditions and customs, they're people who are effective, they're bringing up their children, they have the opportunity not only to live now, but to save money for old age, they have to live in normal conditions. If the authorities don't do that, people are good, you're working on the ideology of further social dispersion: a bunch of poor people and a lot of mass. A bunch of rich people and a lot of poor people. That's your policy! I want to change this policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u483	I'd like to vote on Amendment 221, please vote. [[21:58:50]] For-12. No correction supported. Next amendment to 227, John the Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u484	I would like to add to the words that we have here on achieving effective demographic development, words that show how we should do this: based on the internal demographic potential of Ukraine, the creation by the state of the necessary conditions for the self-replication of the Ukrainian nation, that's the support of motherhood, that's the support of childhood. But I think you want to solve the demographic situation at the expense of migrants. That's why you didn't say more about uncontrolled migration being a threat. And you don't want to accept my amendment, and my amendment is just about to start the internal mechanisms for correcting the demographic very difficult situation, because if we destroy the child's physical infrastructure, if we destroy the gardens, and we've already destroyed them, that there's nowhere to go today, we won't have a chance. So my amendment is to level the situation with the internal reserves, not the internal reserves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u485	I'll bet the vote on amendment 227. And while the vote is coming, John Alexanderovich, as we sit here, we won't play anything. You know what I mean. [[22:00:22]] For the 10th. No correction supported. 228 Amendment, John the Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u486	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think that of those who sit here, there is little use for the demographic situation. The game is not a birth yet. Therefore, I propose that the previous amendment be developed with the following words: A growing state aid at the birth and care of the child. The deputies here criticized the previous authorities for not doing so, and they did not. But I think you have to admit that the first power, and this was the first power that brought society back to the problems of motherhood and child care. And the funds that were provided by the State and repaid at the birth of the child are a great help, and it has to some extent changed the situation in Ukraine in many areas. So let us put this principle further in place to correct the situation in order to support motherhood in support of childhood. I understand this woman who wants to go home. But, Your Honor, suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u487	I'll bet the vote on amendment 228. [[22:01:54]] For the 10th. No correction supported. Next amendment is 236th, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u488	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. What is the point of my correction? President Janukovic tells us that we need to overcome poverty and reduce social dispersion, but to what extent should this social dispersion be reduced? Because we know there's a small crowd of very rich people on one pole today, and there's a lot of poor people on the other pole. And if we just reduce this spread, we can reduce it for a thousand years, and we have these poor people. So what I'm suggesting is that the goal that we have to go towards, the direction and write that this is going to lead to the mid-European level. And you know, in Europe, wages don't matter as much as in Ukraine, there can be no difference in pensions 30 or 50 times. So let's set a goal to the European level of social dispersion to reach, that is, when there's a middle class, when people are rich and rich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u489	I'll bet the vote on the 236th amendment. [[22:03:27]] For-12. No correction supported. Next amendment 253, John the Rabbit, microphone. This is page 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u490	I can't find it. Page 49, now. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The essence of this amendment is a new paragraph to implement a strategy for sustainable sustainable development, to move to a European eco-economic model. It's a model that makes imperatives and requirements equivalent, both socio-economic and environmental. Europe has gone this way today, but today we don't take environmental costs into account, we don't think about perspective today. So I propose that this amendment be recorded and voted on. It'll be a smart decision, it'll demonstrate a new thinking, it'll demonstrate that we're going to the same level as other peoples, and we're not falling behind. That we have the dynamics of life that the democratic world has. And we've got a Bentley, and there's a horse coming, that's the rhythm of our dynamics, we never have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u491	I'm betting on a vote of 253 amendments. [[22:05:00]] For-12. Correction not supported. 254th Amendment. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u492	Ukrainian People's Party. I think Volodymyr Mikhailovich that MPs should vote in favour of the articles and I'm making such an offer. It turns out that our amendments are not accepted, and they do not vote for the articles, this is a violation of our rules. And I beg you, let them vote, but let them not go up into the hall sneezing and sneezing. And now my amendment, the essence of it, is to introduce innovative economic policies, in particular its components such as eco-working tax reform, the polluter pays principle, and internal trade in harmful emissions quotas. We have to go on a level with the world today. I've already said that today the world is moving away from social taxation and is switching to taxation on the use of natural resources. Because if the natural resource is a limiter, it must be used in a cost - saving way, it must be invested in its restorative part. That's the ideology. Next. The polluter has to pay. It's obvious things, we don't have this principle working properly. And third, it's still in the middle of Ukraine to start this quota trade, otherwise it won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u493	I'm betting on a vote of 254. [[22:06:30]] For -14 Correction not supported. Amendment 257. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u494	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. What I'm proposing is that I propose an increase in the recovery part and the natural capital of Ukraine to provide, especially through the growth of its natural-command fund core. Because of the situation we are facing right now, the previous president has issued a series of decrees to expand the security areas. Now the current authorities are blocking this process, blocking it in places and blocking it at this national level. It's a very bad situation, it's not a policy of the previous president's revision, it's a policy of destroying our citizens' environmental clean environment. That's why I think the policy of expanding the natural reserve fund as the nucleus of natural resources is this policy that corresponds to the XX1 century, this policy that will make our economy competitive, this policy that will make our social policy effective, because without a clean environment there is no economy or social policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u495	I bet on the vote of Amendment 257. [[22:07:59]] For-9 Correction not supported. 261 Amendment John the Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u496	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. I propose to add such words as “on the basis of an integrated state administration system and natural resources” to the point that the world today manages natural resources no longer according to a prominent principle as was the case with the Soviet authorities when a committee or ministry was created under a single natural resource. Now the world is running an integrated government, that is, the government authority is running the land there at the same time with water, nadrama, forests and so forth. When I was Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, that was the ideaology that was then realized. Unfortunately, we've drifted away from this ideology, and today we have a broken state administration, today created structures that manage individual natural resources -- that leads to the fact that resources are being used ineffectively, that goes without saying. The energy from this effect. So this principle is a new principle, it's a principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u497	I bet on the vote of Amendment 261. [[22:09:32]] For-12. Correction not supported. Amendment 264, John the Rabbit microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u498	I would like to write down this point: “cooperation with the environmental public”. Let's face it, today this cooperation has broken, it's broken because government authorities and local self-government are very often breaking laws and making decisions that lead to a sharp reduction in green plantings that lead to the destruction of very valuable lands that make the environmental situation worse. And it must be acknowledged that in a democratic society, civil society is the very co-operation of power with economic society today. We see these things in the European field, and we are from whom to follow the example. So I think ignoring that kind of cooperation, that kind of principle, is just digging a hole. Because the environmental community is very proactive, it's people who not only produce intellectual products, they're doing a lot of practical work to improve our environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u499	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 264. [[22:11:03]] For -8 Not supported. 265th Amendment. John the Rabbit's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u500	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. A deputy came up to me and said, “Where did you learn such a ‘promotion of oppression’?” So I'm going to answer him, so let's let the deputy, let's say he's going to go ahead, and I'm going to give him this living bill, where it's all written, but he's going to get mixed up in two theories. That's what my big job is for you to know, Mr. Deputies. And now, essentially, my repair. The point is to write down the words “encouragement and spread of environmental education of citizens”. The thing is, in Ukraine, it's a nation of great nature. We have this irrigation in our tradition, in our custom, it went through our literature, through our poetry, read Shevchenk, read Kotsubinsky, and you'll see how this naturalization speaks in every line. But we're out of this system, and we don't have any education. So let's be clear that we need to increase environmental education, or we won't get a man of the 21st century. Today, we cannot be without ecological education that is deep.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u501	I bet on the vote of Amendment 265. [[22:12:32]] For the 10th. No correction supported. 266 revisions. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u502	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Again, I propose a very serious text. I propose to introduce the principle of prevention and prejudice of natural and technological disasters. You've learned from your own experience that the politics of any authority and of the present is only a response to natural phenomena, to all of these cataclysms, it's a tail fight. The rule of law pursues a policy of prejudice. Now, we're talking about floods today, but we're not implementing prejudice programs for these floods, we're not regulating the flow of water, we're not clearing the russels, we're not creating subtleties for all these floods, we're not doing much other work on shores, and so on. We are already looking for money only when the disaster has come to human homes. It's not politics. It's against citizens. So I propose the principle of preventing these disasters and reducing their consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u503	I'm betting on a vote of 266 amendments. [[22:14:04]] For the 10th. No correction supported. Amendment 269. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u504	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The idea is that the basic principles of internal politics in the humanitarian sphere should be the principle of promoting the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, historical consciousness, traditions and culture. I think it's a very good amendment. It's in line with our Constitution. It's in line with the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. We're going to celebrate the 20th anniversary on July 16th of this year. Why not accept this amendment? Why not make it the principle of public policy? It is the consolidation of the Ukrainian nation, the correction of distortions in the historical and other spheres. This amendment is therefore designed to ensure the normal development of our Ukrainian people. This amendment places a commitment on the state, on the power to develop as European nations do. And it doesn't suit you. I'm just wondering what you're good at after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u505	I'll bet on the vote 269 of the amendment. [[22:15:33]] For-13. Correction not supported. Yeah, let's move on. John the Rabbit, 280 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u506	This is an extremely serious amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u507	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u508	One minute, where's your 276 amendment? 276th, this is Alexander Ephraim's amendment. Counted. Dear colleagues! Please, the microphone, Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u509	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'm addressing you because 276 amendments to Mr. Ephraim are taken into account. As a result of this amendment, the words “other languages of national minorities” are now recorded in article 10, part 1, replaced by the words “other native languages of Ukrainian citizens”. I insist that this is an unconstitutional thing. This matter violates article 10 of the Constitution. This violates all the other laws we have in this area. And it would be more logical to write that this is the implementation of national language policy and all the provision of the function and comprehensive development of Ukrainian language as the only national in all spheres of social life and the guarantee of the free development of the use and protection of Russian and other languages of Ukrainian national minorities. Instead, other native languages appeared. I insist it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u510	Dear colleagues, Why is Vladimir Mikhailovich here? Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote Amendment 276. The committee counted it. At the request of the National MP, I will vote on amendment 276. Why do you have the word here? I bet on the vote of Amendment 276. Please vote. [[22:18:00]] For 232 The amendment has been voted on. So the 280th John Hare amendment. John the Rabbit's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u511	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we've reached the point where I remember what you said and where you're sitting. If there is no record in this paragraph that Ukrainian is a national language, you will not vote for all these things. If we leave now in an editorial that we voted in, it means that we have deviated from the Constitution. We want to solve language problems on international law, not on the Constitution. That's why I'm proposing to write down such a thesis that the Ukrainian language as a national language is what corresponds to the Constitution. Otherwise it's all a revision, and Janukovic said that he really understands that Ukrainian language is a function of the state, and it should be in this document. Because if you don't vote, that means there's an audit going on here, there's a dismantling of the Constitution, there's an anti-Ukrainian anti-government game going on here. This is a key point. And I don't think your faction should vote for this law if it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u512	Dear colleagues! I think let's do it this way. The faction will understand how to vote, as will each MP personally. But at the same time, both the President of Ukraine and everyone is stressing that Ukrainian is a national language, because in this case we are voting for the clarification that we have to make in the law, it will be absolutely right. So I put to the vote Amendment 280 by John the Rabbit. Please vote. Please vote. [[22:19:57]] For-38 Correction not counted. 283. Dear colleagues, I can't understand one thing: your sarcasm when we live in a state and we can't understand one thing about protecting what is a state. Who do I serve? Well, there's got to be some kind of conscience. If we declare it, let's vote. 283 revisions. Blacksmith, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u513	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well first of all, I thank you for the second time you've made a werewolf. First time the committee, now the parties. factions of regions. But it would be good if you put the factions to the vote for it. And by the way, I'd like to say that there are people in our room that are only 55. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u514	Let's make it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u515	I don't understand all these votes. But I still want to make it right. You write “protection of Russian, other languages of national minorities”. Isn't Russian the language of national minorities? Why do we separate it? The language of national minorities. It's okay. But those who are really national minorities in Ukraine and are really represented, because the amendment that Mr. Ephraim had made to me didn't give me the words then, other languages of Ukrainian citizens as you're going to protect, guarantee, free development, protection of, say, Afghan tribes there. Which we have here are citizens or Nigerians, or Ethiopians, or, say, the same dummies or Crimean Tatars. You. Or these. It's either posterior tattars or Siberia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u516	I bet on the vote of Amendment 283. [[22:21:59]] For -14 Correction not supported. Amendment 289. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u517	My amendment is to write down the speaking and religious identity of all the indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine. This is about the identity of the regions. What regions? What are you talking about, Your Honor? A person needs to see the community, not see a faceless society. And what you've rejected for the Ukrainian language today is an anti-constitutional decision, but it shows that there are no patriots in Ukraine. Where are you Ukrainians? You did. Where are the left ones that protect national parameters? If you are statesmen, you would defend what is written in our Constitution and is the essence of the Ukrainian state. It's the only national language. You're doing an audit. You want to change the language situation today at the legislative level and set Ukraine on fire. Today we have no grounds for indignation, and you want to let a snake in between our citizens. Where you're going.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u518	I'm betting on a vote of 289 amendments. [[22:23:30]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 293 revisions. John the Rabbit. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u519	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am addressing you as the Ukrainian national deputy to ensure that the activities of the Supreme Council are broadcast because the broadcast has been turned off. That means there's a coup, or I can't call it that. Satisfying the national and cultural and linguistic needs of Ukrainians living outside the country. I suggest you write this down because this is a position dictated by the Constitution, this position is dictated, if you want, by national interests. Because the Ukrainian nation is not just citizens who are in the Supreme Council, it is also our fellow countrymen who live outside Ukraine. And it's our duty, our duty to have these relationships nurtured, because it's a great potential for us to be people who live in other worlds and help their own nation that. What don't you want? You want to make a ghetto out of Ukrainians? That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u520	I'll bet you 293 amendments. [[22:24:58]] For the 10th. I ask the Regulatory Committee to make proposals on how we should regulate the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working after 18 hours, because this is a fair point, but we need to settle this issue. 298. Amendment, John the Rabbit microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u521	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. I am still protesting Volodymira Mikhailovich, and I believe that what is being broadcast through the "Council" channel is a conscious policy, a conscious policy, not to hear what arguments are being made for our amendments, what arguments are being made against this document. That's why I'm talking to you, so get a broadcast, and no one has the right to rule out the broadcast of the Supreme Council because it smells like a coup d'état -- it smells like totalitarianism. And please take these measures otherwise this consideration is absolutely groundless, this consideration is unnecessary. You haven't found another answer to our revisions and our arguments -- how to turn off the broadcast, limit the publicity of our authority, we'll go a long way if we keep going. So I'm asking you to turn on the broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u522	I put to the vote 298 amendments and ask the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to find out how we can solve the problem that our colleague spoke about. [[22:26:45]] For -6 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues! Take it easy. We're working on it. Amendment 306. Peter Simonenko, are you insisting on her? This is 59 pages. No, it's not. The amendment is being removed. Let's go. John the Rabbit. 315 revisions. Please, there's Rabbit, Costenko, Jojik, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u523	John the Rabbit is the Ukrainian National Party. Clearly, the broadcast has been turned off! Because we've come to the key point of principle -- that's until the moment of non-lock. And of course, the coalition was afraid of our arguments, and it was afraid, and it wanted people not to understand what was going on. My amendment is to remove the word “block” from the first part of article 11, because there is no such concept in international law as a “blocking state”. And I don't even know what non-blocking is. If you are referring to neutrality as being constantly active, please tell your people how you will be in a globalization and threat situation: such as terrorism, such as uncontrolled migration, such as cyber attacks, to protect Ukraine. How? With the money you're spending on the Ukrainian Armed Forces, or with the money you're spending on KPC, you're especially disarming Ukraine, isolating Ukraine because non-blocking is the isolation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u524	I'll bet you a vote. So that's your amendment! John, one of the authors is speaking! I'm asking you, dear fellows, I'm demonstrating tremendous tolerance, but the concert won't go away! The amendment was made by the National MP, and I'm putting it to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you, 315 amendments, one of the authors has spoken. Vote, Your Honor. I read what the committee wrote. [[22:29:15]] Z-11. John the Rabbit, 319 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u525	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. 319 repairs, yes, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u527	This is about replacing the words “the citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities” because it is such a term, you know, taken from the ceiling, by constitutional terms. This is “all the indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine”. This is a constitutional term, and the rest is, you know, it's all from the evil one. I understand the revision is coming, I understand that the Ukrainians are going to be cornered today, but I can't understand one thing: why don't you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, take measures to broadcast the Supreme Council's work? I think you're doing it wrong anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u528	I'm voting 319 amendments and I'm informing you at the same time that I've now given a mandate to find out if there are people at work. [[10:30:29]] For -14 No correction supported. John the Rabbit, 321 amendment. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u529	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I propose to replace the term “lead” with the term “decent” because what is “leading”? He's the one who's in charge. What is “the worthy one ”? Well, it's self-sufficient, it's pride and so forth. Where do these terms come from? Is this from a misunderstanding of the Ukrainian language? And you, honourable deputies, you see, and you reject Ukrainian as a national language. Are you simply not concerned about the responsibility of creating this bill? Where does it all come from? I propose to accept this amendment after all. I don't understand this evaluation term. Who's going to determine which way they're going? Let's be honest. This is about serious things: it is about establishing the place of Ukraine in the world, in the system of international relations! Do you want to become a superstate? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u530	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 321. [[22:31:58]] For 13 Correction not supported. Correction of 322. Microphone Ivan Hare, please, yours. FROM THE PLACE. What about 331?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u531	Well, we just saw 321, we voted, we didn't support it. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u532	Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u533	And now for the 322nd, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u534	Vladimir Mikhailovich! We need to keep an eye out. I understand you're tired. I think I'm tired of the MPs. But look at Amendment 331.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u535	Ivan Alexanderovich! We do. I just don't know who's tired. We voted on your amendment 319. She received 14 votes in favour. Then there's your 321. And please don't make any remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u536	22nd or 21st?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u537	Well, then, why don't you just argue? Just make it 321.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u538	In the 321st Amendment, I propose the fifth paragraph of article 11, paragraph 2, of the 11 words, of the words. That's what we said. 322, Volodymyr Volodymyr. Mikhailovich! What are you guys doing? Well! We already voted in 321.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u539	Ivan Alexanderovich! Ivan Alexanderovich! You've justified it, we've voted on it. After that, you want to vote again. I'm betting on the 321st vote. We... we didn't get it. We didn't get it, you didn't get to vote. Please, the 321st vote is amended. [[22:33:32]] To the-8. Correction not supported. Correction is now 322. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u540	Ivan Rabbit-Ukrainian National Party. I propose that the seventh paragraph of Article 11 be deleted. Because this article refers to a European system of collective security that does not exist. This article deals with cooperation with other military and political blocs on all issues. You know there's two blocks on the Euro-Atlantic space. This is NATO block and Tashkentsky block. So let's be clear that you're proposing this amendment in order to give up European choice and move in the east direction. You're getting out of the box. What a blockage you're talking about today when the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation is in Ukraine, and you've continued your stay for another 25 years after 17 years. What blockage do you speak of in such financing of the Armed Forces that we have today? That's why this item needs to be removed. It is harmful to Ukraine’s national interests. This is a revision of our European choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u541	I bet on the vote of Amendment 322. [[22:35:02]] For 13 Correction not supported. Next amendment 331. Maybe we'll ask Jaroslav Jojik to back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u542	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I stress that the “Council” channel is specifically designed to highlight the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I also point out that the "Council" and radio broadcasts have been shut down in sync. This means that the right team has arrived. Do you think as Head of the Supreme Council that you are obliged to conduct a service investigation now and find out who gave the command to exclude the broadcast to cast a shadow on the Supreme Council of Ukraine? What is involved in making decisions at night and without public awareness of what these national MPs are doing. Please immediately conduct a service investigation and resume broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u543	Dear colleagues. I'll put 331 amendments to the vote. As the vote goes on, I would like you to find out, Adam Ivanovich. We made an obvious mistake when we made a decision to work on the issues identified by today, and we would have to make a decision on whether to broadcast in a simultaneous manner. I'm saying there's a problem here. [[22:36:37]] About 14 The decision is not taken. 332 revisions. Alexander Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u544	Dear friends, this is what happens when we make stupid decisions like working at night. Look, there's an empty hall, nobody wants to work, everybody's in a hurry. And we make mistakes, including in light. Now it's in the text. I propose in the seventh paragraph of article 11, the words “observance of Ukraine's political non-blocking, which means Ukraine's non-participation in military and political blocs” are deleted, because this is really what you are accepting, so you are reviewing the old Law on the Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy.” But believe me, Ukraine's path towards integration into the EU is impossible without integration and into NATO. Well, when we actually decide to create a broader system of European collective security and all that, will we make changes to the law or what? I don't think we should do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u545	I bet on the vote of Amendment 332. [[22:38:09]] For-13. No correction supported. Yes. Let's move on. 337 revisions. John the Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u546	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to stop the work of the Supreme Council or turn on the broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u547	Please, Ivan Alexanderovich! You don't run this place!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u548	No one made a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u549	You're going to have to make some adjustments. We're looking for coworkers right now to get the broadcast back on track. Do you need a TV or do you need to make a decision? Get to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u550	No one made the decision to turn off the broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u551	I'll tell you one more time that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed an announcement where it's supposed to be at 6:15 p.m. And calm down and let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u552	Is There Any Decision at 8 / 15 None. There's no such thing. Don't lie!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u553	I'm asking you, Your Honor, to vote for us to be able to broadcast. Please vote in favour. Please vote in favour. [[22:39:30.]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Please, 337 revisions, prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u554	John the Rabbit, Ukrainian National Faction. I want to fix these abracadabras, where it's about that we need to put in place the principle of compliance and implementation, of making new principles. I propose that these words be replaced by the words of popular principles and norms of international law. Because I don't know that one. There's finally some terminology that's been established in international relations, in government activity, and I want it to be reflected. Because what's written here is just not clear. What did the authors mean? I'd like to, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if I'm not the chairman of the committee or the committee representative to explain, why don't you explain to me what this means? Because it's not just, well, a circus, it's a parliament, it's a legislative body, and you have to write some legal language, use some legal terms, not just do something like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u555	I explain that I fully agree with you that the best would be a term and a more used “generally accepted”. Regrettably, once again, I find that the Nechlai committee has considered processing the second reading of this bill. There are a number of positions that would improve this bill. And there's absolutely no burden on these ideological proposals. We would have passed the law and the high condition for a long time. I'm voting on amendment 337. [[22:41:27]] For-13. Correction not supported. Now, honorary colleagues, the 343, microphone of John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u556	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, how much time do you need and Adam Ivanovich to find out whether there is a broadcast or not? Why don't we stop this circus? There is no broadcast because the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not supported the broadcast and please calm down and report in position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u557	Do not tell, nor should you vote on, not on maintenance, that is, you have limited our citizens in obtaining information. Now I understand why you and these guys didn't take it because you don't want to give it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u558	Turn off the microphone. I'm asking you, if you're going to be amended, you need a TV or you need to adopt a law. I realized you needed a TV. I'm voting on Amendment 343 of John the Rabbit. You're not in a chat room. [[22:42:36]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Amendment 347 John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u559	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. You see Vladimir Mikhailovich, he didn't even let me tell you what kind of correction it was. It was about getting the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation out of Ukraine, so don't use these receptions, we all understand why there's no broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u560	Basically, it's a fix.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u561	Basically. Paragraph 20, paragraph 2, of Article 11, after the words “in the European Union” add to the words “and in Euro-Atlantic security space through the acquisition of membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. I come from the fact that there is no system of collective security in Euro-Atlantic security other than NATO, and from the fact that globalization is a security challenge not only for the Ukrainian State, but for other European states, it leads us to understand that we need to work together today at the level of security. I mean, being NATO members, if you don't understand that, then you don't want to defend your Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u562	I'm voting on Amendment 347. [[22:44:08]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Correction 348, Alexander Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u563	Dear friends! See, I propose paragraph 12 of the second part of article 11 to read: “Encouraging Ukraine's integration into European political, economic, legal and Euro-Atlantic security space with a view to gaining membership in the European Union”. Why did I link these two questions, and why is this necessary? We have a very successful experience of former Soviet republics, and now independent states -- Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia. That's the way they've gone, and now they've got a pretty good security system, and they've got good economic gains. We have the same experience as the former satellites of the Soviet Union – Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania. I think that's an example for Ukraine, that it has to go this way too. Not just to integrate into economic space, but also into safe space, because otherwise we just don't see the European Union and any integration. That's what you need to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u564	I'll bet the vote on amendment 348. [[22:45:39]] For -14 Correction not supported. Yeah, let's go on with the repairs. 351st. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u565	By this amendment, I propose to unite the people of Ukraine, showing that our relationship with the outside world will be beneficial for Ukraine. This affects both the Russian Federation and the United States, which touches the People's Republic of China, the Far North, Latin America, East Asia, the Middle East and the Persian Gulf. We're talking here about how we're going to pursue balanced foreign policy in the interests of the people of Ukraine. We also suggest that normal cooperation be ensured in the territory of the Commonwealth of Independent States. So I'm proposing exactly what will benefit the people of Ukraine, which will unite the people of Ukraine, which will strengthen the economic potential of our manufacturer, which will reduce the pressure on our citizens when we discuss the socio-economic consequences of the so-called reforms or in the past of that foreign policy that the orange gang has been conducting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u566	I bet on the vote of Amendment 351. [[22:47:21]] For-34 Please, Peter Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u567	Simonenko. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, members of the coalition, please let us vote on this amendment for the first part. If you have doubts about the fact that we have not addressed the issue of Ukraine's future cooperation in the Single Economic Area, then let us vote on the first question: deepening cooperation with the Russian Federation, the United States of America, also with the People's Republic of China, the countries of North and Latin America, East Asia, the Middle East and the Persian Gulf. Let's vote on this! This is exactly what it will take for us to be with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u568	Dear colleagues, I'm going to do it this way. In order to comply with the Rules of Return to this amendment, I shall then put to the vote, if we return, in parts. I'm voting back on Amendment 351. [[22:48:45.]] For 209 The offer is not supported. John the Rabbit. Amendment 356.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u569	John the Rabbit is the Ukrainian National Party. What is suggested in the first article of Article 12? In fact, the exclusive authority of the Supreme Council to formulate the principles of internal and external politics is eliminated. And it all appears to be some kind of Supreme Council mixer, government and president. So I would like to make it clear that the definition of internal and external policy is being carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of close interaction with the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not as it is now recorded. You don't have to delegate your functions to anyone, you don't have to do the revision of the Constitution. So I just don't understand why my amendment isn't accepted right now. I don't understand the people's deputies, the role they play in the Ukrainian Parliament, the only legislative body. Have they long come to terms with the fact that she is on the dance floor in the clans or other authorities? I don't understand this policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u570	I'll bet you the vote on 356th. [[22:50:17]] Z-11. No correction supported. Dear colleagues, the amendment procedure is defined. Please. You'll be out in a minute. The procedure for consideration of amendments is defined. Yuri Carmazin, 361st Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u571	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, 22 hours 50 minutes. The Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" is ignored. I remind you that I propose to exclude part 2 of article 12, which states that the principles of domestic and foreign policy defined by this law should be taken into account when drafting legislative and other legislative acts, because, in accordance with part 2 of article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine is the basis for the adoption of laws, since it is an act of establishing the authority of the people and has the highest legal power. In the case of the adoption of this rule, the law will essentially have more legal power than other laws, although under the Constitution all laws have the same legal power and are less than the Constitution of Ukraine. So I suggest we rule this out so that we don't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u572	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on amendment 361. [[22:52:00]] For the 15th. Correction not accepted. 362 Amendment John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u573	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. I propose that part two of article 12 be excluded and that part three and fourth be considered part two and third respectively. My position is based on the fact that through paragraph 2, you are the honourable deputies of the majority, the coalitions want to give the principles more legal power than the Constitution. There has been such a vote in the Supreme Council on more than one occasion since 1998, but the national MPs have always found their will, found the wisdom not to vote in favour of such amendments, not to vote in favour of such norms. Because the Constitution is the basic source document and there can be no law that is above the Constitution that should be taken into account in the drafting of other bills -- at least read the conclusions of our Legal Office to see that what you do is true -- it's an anti-constitutional coup, it's a coup.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u574	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Amendment 362. [[22:53:38]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Thus amendment 367 John the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u575	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. I propose the deletion of article 12, paragraph 3, of the “authorities for the definition and implementation of the principles of internal and external policy” and the Supreme Council of Ukraine went and went there to the government of that kind. This is where all the concepts are mixed up. You have to understand that the Supreme Council, it defines the principles that implement these principles of the Cabinet of Ministers. Once again, there is an expansion of government powers that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and that undermine Parliament because it is deprived of its inalienable rights, its inalienable powers. I don't know what the Supreme Council wants. If you want to, you seem to have turned into an organ that doesn't have any power, and you want to work under someone else, so let's do it, but I don't want to. I think there's a Constitution and you can't break the Constitution. Again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, where are the broadcasts? I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u576	I bet on the vote of amendment 367. [[22:55:17]] For-13. No correction supported. 374 revisions. Alexander the Blacksmith's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u577	Dear friends, look, we're writing completely trivial things in this paragraph. [[This is part one of the third part of article 12]] We count the Supreme Council as a state legislative body that defines it and so on and so on and so forth. Well, it's all in the Constitution that the Supreme Council does, so it's absolutely ridiculous. Moreover, we write: making changes to this law if necessary. Well, obviously, the Supreme Council can make changes to any law if necessary, so I don't understand this text at all. We've rewritten the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, so why do we do that? Therefore, I propose that the words “imposing changes to this law if necessary” be deleted. If someone wants to read it, he does not understand what he is talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u578	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 374. [[22:56:42]] For-13. Correction not supported. Amendment 377. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u579	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm talking to you because there's another novel written here. For example, the application of the third part of article 12 of the third part of article 12 reads: “The application of the veto to the laws adopted by the Supreme Council.” It's the President's right. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. including, for reasons -- think about -- their inadequacy to the internal and external policies defined by this law, the coma, the implementation of human resources policies within them. “ I don’t know And so on. Thus, this provision duplicates the standards of a valid Constitution, and in addition, this rule of veto law applies to adopted laws, including the grounds for their inadequacy with the law of the outside. She's putting this law over the Constitution. One. It's a way out of commission. These are additional powers of the President that are not provided for by the Constitution. The existence of such a rule in the law makes it impossible for it to be legal at all. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u580	I bet on the vote of Amendment 377. [[22:58:15]] For-16 No correction supported. 380th Amendment. Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u581	Dear friends! Here is what the Supreme Council said about this paragraph. Well, we rewrote the President's mandate, which is enshrined in the Constitution. From. Well, it's a totally stupid article that, well, duplicates again. It turns out the law is about nothing. And now look. So I propose in the second part of the third part of article 12 the word "referring with annual and successive messages to the Supreme Council on the internal and external situation in which the definition is proposed, correcting the principles of external and internal policy, taking into account the internal and external situation of Ukraine" deletes, because, in fact, the President can address and has a duty to address the Supreme Council, but he cannot correct his references by what we adopt by law. He has the right to legislative initiative, he can make his proposals to the law, changes to the principles of the law. It's not foreign politics, it's the rule of law. He can take and veto, but he cannot by any means correct the principles of foreign domestic politics with his letters. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u582	I'll bet the vote on amendment 380. Please vote. [[22:59:47]] For-13. Correction not supported. Alexander Blackwolf, 381 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u583	Once again, back to this paragraph. It is suggested in the second paragraph of article 12, paragraph 3, that the words “including, on grounds of their inadequacy, the principles of external and internal politics” be excluded. Why? Because it fits these laws or does not respond, the President has an undeniable right to make any laws or amendments and additions to any laws. He has the right to veto. Why do we write about it in this law that it can do so? And according to the Criminal Code, if it doesn't answer, either the Constitution or some other law. Obviously, it is the President's right to follow the legislative process and make proposals. We're writing completely ridiculous phrases that we don't know how to use. Why is this written? Our children are reading us! Why are we writing such nonsense? And then we wonder where we have so much demagogies in Ukraine. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the voters ask us, are we going to end this law today, or are we going to continue on schedule until 6 a.m.? How will we do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u584	Let's finish this consideration, and then let's figure it out. I'm betting on a vote of 381 amendments. [[23:01:24]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Please, Jaroslav Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u585	Jaroslav Jodzik is the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Supreme Council is working today during the operation of the Decision “On the Provision of Broadcasting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. So to ask you the question of whether or not you can confirm the broadcast, it's totally wrong. You could ask questions about the broadcast, but you didn't do it for some reason, so you wouldn't be accused of hiding something from society. Hence, today certain officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have violated the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You were talking about starting a service investigation on this point. Please inform the deputies of the results of this investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u586	Now I'm going to give you a job to keep an eye on your changes and I'm going to do your job. Dear colleagues! I would ask you somehow to be tolerant of each other. I'm in charge of a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand you've been left behind, three representatives, so you can get on my nerves. That's obviously how it works. You may already have a conscience. Amendment 382. National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u587	Dear friends! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, first of all, I don't know who left us. Secondly, Amendment 382 has already been discussed with you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Amendment 382, we have already considered. Tell us who left us. It was considered and voted after 381. And then there's my 388.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u588	Because there are no deputies to defend and vote for these amendments. They're gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u589	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and most shouldn't vote for it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u590	Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u591	What National Deputies? Ask your faction! What are you asking us?Oh, my God! No one left us. We're on our own. The most conscientious of all the factions. Right, Ivan Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u592	I thank you personally for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u593	Thank you. So do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u594	I'm betting on a vote of 382 amendments. If we are so in pain, dear colleagues, for making the right decision, then perhaps the factions, all factions, would sit and work. You'd sit and work. [[23:04:04]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. So it's not a decision, it's a process, obviously. Yuri Carmazin, amendment 385, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u595	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remind you as the Head of the Supreme Council, 23.04 now. This is about the 385th Carmazin Amendment. I want to say that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, your hands are now destroying parliamentaryism in Ukraine. What's going on is that after that, it's only partisan war that can be. What you are doing now! Stop! Stop and wake up! In accordance with article 107 of the Constitution of the Council of National Security and Defence, it does not determine whether or not it implements the principles of internal or foreign policy, it is only a coordinating body on national security and defence issues with the President of Ukraine. The National Security and Defence Council coordinates and controls the activities of executive authorities in the area of national security and defence. This paragraph four parts of the third article 12 should be deleted because it is contrary to the Constitution, and I have not in vain emphasized to you that it is already 23. 05 for it to be looked at later in the Higher.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u596	I'll bet the vote on amendment 385. [[23:05:39]] For the 17th. No correction supported. 388th Amendment. Alexander the Blacksmith's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u597	Dear friends, same story. Well, look, we're rewriting the authority from the Constitution. Before that, we rewrote about the Security Council what it's doing. Well, obviously we have it written in the Constitution. Now we're talking about central and local organs and all that. Well, please, let's not repeat what's written in other laws and in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u598	I'll bet the vote on amendment 388. [[23:06:31]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Amendment 391. Alexander the Blacksmith's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u599	Vladimir Mikhailovich, right now the voters are calling and asking where I am and what we're not being shown. The wife calls and asks. It's not serious at all. Well, how could that be? Let's make this right. Paragraph 5 of the third article of the 12th Bill before the words “central and local authorities” we should write “Minister's Office” and “local authorities” should be removed because of what? Local executive authorities are developing draft laws within the limits of their competence to implement external and internal policies. What does the local executive authorities have to do with drafting laws? What limits of authority have they been given? Well, it's poorly written, you say. But let's stop it and send it back to second reading. Please don't embarrass the Ukrainian state!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u600	I'm betting on a vote of 391 amendments. [[23:07:54]] For-13. Correction not supported. And, dear colleagues, for comments. If anyone needs the help that was at work at this time, come all of you after they're done, I'll write you all some help. () [[Applause]] 393 revisions. Please, John the Rabbit's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u601	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I propose not to engage in this anti-constitutional coup d'état with political parties and public organizations. If you, the national MPs, have passed the Law on the Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy, if you've adopted these points, who implements them, who controls them, you've written there that the Supreme Council does it, the Cabinet of Ministers does it, and that's what the President does. So why are the parties here and why are the public organizations here? Why do you involve them in these anticonstitutional actions? Have courage, acquire wisdom, national MPs, and do not do this thing. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again, where did the broadcast go? Why do we need the Supreme Council to go down to the buffet and shut up, any decisions you make with your pens and everything, because when people see how Parliament is doing, it's a disgrace to the whole world. And we will address both the Council of Europe and we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u602	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's humanize this issue. Let's do it humanly, finish the discussion, if someone is baking in a buffet, then we're going to call the workers to get you to the buffet, not everyone needs to be sent there. I'm asking you to do it humanly, tolerantly. 393 An amendment by John the Rabbit is put to the vote. [[23:09:51]] For-16 Correction not supported. 395 revisions. John Hare's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u603	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. People's deputies! Listen patiently, honor my work, none of you together will prepare as many amendments as I have prepared. That is no longer the case, for it takes knowledge and great work on itself. I propose article 13, in general, because to rule out again what I said before, “that control over the maintenance of internal and external policies is carried out by the Supreme Council, the President, the National Security and Defence Council” – went and went. So all the powers of the Supreme Council, the President, the government, the National Security and Defence Council are completely mixed. So there's a blow to Parliament because there's an exclusive mandate for Parliament to set these things up -- there's parliamentary control and there's structures that have to implement all these principles. You give your authority to what organs, I don't know if you're a national MP or who you are. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u604	I bet on the vote of Amendment 395. [[23:11:20]] For-16 No correction supported. Amendment 396. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u605	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I am reminded of 23 hours 11 minutes of the Supreme Council, without interruption, to continue to address the issue in an anti-constitutional manner without broadcasting in violation of Ukraine's Pro Rules Act. Part 1 of article 13 suggests that we do so. The internal and external policies are monitored by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, other authorities within the limits of their powers as defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. After removing the mention of the National Security and Defence Council from there, because it is only a coordinating body for the security and defence of the President, and according to the Security Council Act, it has only three functions. First. Proposals made by the President. The other one. Coordination and monitoring of activities in the peacetime of the organs. Third. It is the coordination of executive powers in military times or extraordinary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u606	I bet on the vote of Amendment 396. [[23:12:52]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Now it's 397. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u607	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you change and move on to the final and transitional positions, change the name here, and read at least what the legal administration says to you. You wrote in paragraph 2 of the Transitional Regulations: before bringing legislation into line with this law, laws and other legislation are applied in a part that does not conflict with this law. In doing so, you have laid down this law over all other laws. This is the first time. The other one. In the third paragraph of the Final Position, in the 14th, you predicted as well. And this is totally unacceptable, as the legal system has also pointed out. See what the legal authorities wrote: these items should be removed as anticonstitutional. That's why I'm offering the End position as it is. The second and third paragraphs are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u608	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 397 Yuri Karmazin. [[23:14:23]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Amendment 400. John the Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u609	I propose that part two of article 14 be ruled out as anti-constitutional because here it is that before legislation is brought into line with this law, the law and other legal acts are applied in a part that is not in conflict with this law. It's an absolute anti-constitutional norm. It makes these principles higher than the Constitution, and this is actually a coup d'état. I don't understand who went to such a standard, how, who would that bring all the legislation into line with this standard? It is clear that there are designs on certain articles, particularly those on NATO, especially in Ukrainian. But you will not be able to review language politics because it is enshrined in the Constitution, it is in chapter one. And you will continue to make illegal decisions and anti-constitutional decisions. And sooner or later, justice will find you people's deputies for such a willful violation of the Constitution and of the current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u610	Honorary colleagues, amendment 400, also refers to the observation made by the Chief Legal Authority. We need to make such a decision that the paragraph is deleted: “To bring legislation into line with this law, laws and other legislation are applied in a part that is not contrary to this law. “ I don’t know And this is where Yuri Carmazin spoke. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to ask that we vote now, because when I put it to the vote as a whole, I'm going to put it to the motions of the judiciary. Let us stick to the requirements of the Constitution in these matters. So I'd like to get ready for the vote. Please vote for the 400th amendment. Please vote. [[23:16:45]] For 104 Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority, as well as a number of deputies, consider that there is an anti-constitutional norm according to which laws and other legal acts are applied in a part that does not conflict with this law. Well, it's an anti-constitutional norm, and we need to remove it, and we agreed on that. And given the proposals made by the deputies and the Chief Legal Authority, we need to vote. I'm going to tell you, if you don't support me, I'm going to put a motion to the vote in this paper: vote with the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. Let's stick to basic legal cleanness. So please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to consider Amendment 400. Oh, I'm sorry. Cancel the vote. I will put to the vote the motion to return to the vote Amendment 400. Please vote. Dear colleagues, if you think we're going to make decisions for those who don't need to, that's not going to happen. Kill the whole law! And let's not run it here. Please, there are basic rules to be followed. We won't, come on, that's it! [[23:18:10]] For-55 So, come on, get ready. In the final vote, I'll put it to a vote, taking into account the legal administration's proposals. () [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to! The Supreme Council should be the Supreme Council of Ukraine in any way. We won't be like that. Let's go through, and then we'll come back, let's go. Amendment 406. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u611	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm glad it's been there for some time, but you've already seen this and taken into account the opinion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Legal Department. My amendment concerns the removal of part three of article 14, because paragraph three of article 14 of this Act amends, inter alia, the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on the Fundamentals of Security, which now defines the term “national security” as “the protection of the vital interests of man and citizen, society and the State under which permanent development of society is ensured, timely detection, prevention and neutralization of real and potential threats to national interests”. The proposed supplement was not considered on the basis of a violation of article 116 of the Act on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I remind you, it's 11:00 in the morning. And it's unacceptable as something that goes beyond both common sense and reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u612	Puts to the vote Amendment 406. I'd like to make up my mind. [[23:20:16]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 407 revisions. Pisarenka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u613	Dear colleagues! Amendment 407. I ask her to vote in the first edition as she was presented, because the committee took her into account with editorial clarification. I ask you to vote, put it to the vote in our first sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u614	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way, according to the Rules. I'll put it to the vote to confirm the amendment. If the Supreme Council does not vote on the amendment, then the original edition will remain. And it's gonna be okay. Am I asking the right question? I'm voting on the confirmation of Amendment 407. I'd like to make up my mind. [[23:21:18]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 410. Ivan Hare, please. Or Jaroslav Jojik. Identify who will be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u615	Jojik. Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u616	Jaroslav Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u617	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to point out that right now we've come to one of the main points for which this whole farce has been organized and for which you've all been cut off from your families so that you can accept this point at night. I would like to remind all of us that in 2003, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovič was on his way to Euro-Atlantic integration. That is how virtually all Eastern European countries have done so, and in this way security has been resolved for them once and for all, and they are prosperous nations. So I am calling on today’s coalition to confirm the course that Ukraine has been in since the 2003 Prime Minister’s course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u618	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the 410th amendment. [[23:23:00]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Now the 414th amendment. Jaroslav Jojik, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u619	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Once again, I would like to remind you that the NATO course was adopted in 2003 for the initiatives of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic. I would also like to remind all of us that the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service recently declared a threat to the safety of President Viktor Yanukovic's life. In some cases, these events are a threat to life and a rejection of the euro. There's something happening in sync with Euro-Atlantic structures. Ukrainian society should know if there is a relationship. Therefore, according to the Ukrainian People's Party, it is unacceptable to vote in such uncertainty on such defining moments of the further movement of the State. So I'm going to the coalition, not vote on the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u620	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on amendment 414. We'll be back in a minute. Let's get through here. We'll be back. [[23:24:36]] For -14 Correction not supported. Yuri Carmazin, amendment 417.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u621	Yury Karmazin Party of Motherland Defenders. Now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich 23 hours 24 minutes of peace time, no military action in the country is observed except against the opposition of military action. I propose part five of the Final and Transitional Regulations as follows: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, shall ensure that, once this law has been published, the implementation of an expert study on draft laws and other legal acts on the relevant internal and external policies defined by this law is carried out within a monthly period of time from the time they are introduced in accordance with the established law, as well as the provision in the database of the bill on the official website. To prepare and submit to the Supreme Council a bill to amend and supplement Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the adoption of this law. Bring in, ensure review and repeal by ministries and other central executive bodies of their laws that conflict with this law. I'll give you a reason. Today is an expert day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u622	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 417 Yuri Karmazin. [[23:26:14]] For-16 Correction not supported. Now, dear fellows, Amendment 419 I would ask you carefully, all the national deputies, to look closely at the amendment. What is it? That the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in a month's time to secure. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will ensure the implementation within the month following the publication of this law of an expert study on draft laws and other legal and regulatory acts on the relevant principles of internal and external policy defined by this law. One minute! That's right! So I want to tell you right now. So then any bill that's going to be submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy will first be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, and then we'll say you can bring it in for consideration or not. And then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will lose the right to legislative initiative. If that's right, let's leave it. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to tell you that the Ukrainian national MPs, like the President, and the Cabinet of Ministers, have the right to legislative initiative. If we leave this norm, you have to be aware that now no bill will be able to be considered until it goes through expertise. This will be a limitation on the rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's the second step. The first action was in the Law on Regulatory Acts. So we have to vote, remove this position from the law. Please, Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u623	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, you understand the content of this provision quite correctly, because this is really about the analysis of draft laws. I therefore propose that the word “projects” be removed because, once this basic law has been passed, we will really need to determine which laws currently in force are contrary to the provisions of this law, what is said to be the 400th amendment, and already to develop an action plan, to bring them into line. Therefore, it is necessary to examine existing laws, not drafts, but laws in force. Without expertise, we will not understand how we need to finalize the existing laws of Ukraine. The word “projects” should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u624	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. I ask you to listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u625	Dear colleagues! First, what Alla Alexandrovna says is she's half right, because the following articles say that the Cabinet of Ministers has conducted an expert study of the existing legislative acts. Then there's the talk, acting on it. And I'm proposing that we take an article on the fact that all of the bills we're going to be preparing don't matter what if we leave this article, until the Cabinet of Ministers in the Ministry of Justice gives an expert opinion on what it's responsible for internal and external policy, the Supreme Council bill has no right to consider. That's the first one. The other one. Anyone, I'm sorry, any cleric on your bill could write that he doesn't think he's responding to the ambush. And the Supreme Council, the people's deputies, and the President, including essentially losing the right to legislative initiative. So I propose to exclude this position from the law, because what Alexandrovska says is still in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u626	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u627	John the Rabbit is the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that there's an amendment to 420, but there's a technical error. It says "second paragraph" and should be written "first paragraph", because then, 421th, this is the second paragraph. This point cannot be left out of the fact that it is not simply the issuance of powers by the Supreme Council in the hands of a minority or any other structure; it is simply the elimination of parliamentaryism. Now that the media are blocking what censorship is, there is already a ban on the activities of Ukrainian national deputies, that is, President Yanukovic and the coalition are banning the activities of Ukrainian national deputies. After all, you have the right of legislative initiative under the Constitution. And no one can deprive me of that right!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u628	Dear colleagues, please let us have an understanding here that the Supreme Council should have the right to introduce draft laws in the person of the deputies without any prospect, without any evaluation. That is why I am voting on the deletion of the clause: “In the month following the publication of this law, to ensure that draft laws and other legal acts are carried out in accordance with the principles of internal and external policy defined by this law”. Please vote. Dear colleagues, then I will put it all together. All right. Then, in general, when I vote, I will put it “in the light of this proposal”. No, the law will be burned, that's all. [[23:31:57]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. () [[B in m in s a l in]] It is all there, it says, “To bring the acts into line”, - you have already been explained. 420 revisions. Please, Ivan Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u629	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you were at the time discussing with the people's deputies who don't understand the anti-constitutionality of paragraph one. Who am I telling, Vladimir Mikhailovich? The point is that Amendment 420 is an amendment to this paragraph, which has not been voted on. Because there's just a technical error. The second part of the fifth paragraph is written there. Then again comes paragraph 2 of the fifth paragraph. So it's just a mistake. We've talked about this before. This is the first part of the fifth paragraph in 420. The following amendment will apply to paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u630	I'm voting on 420 amendments. [[23:33:36]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. 421 repairs. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u631	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I propose that the second paragraph of Article 14 be deleted. Because this paragraph discusses how to prepare and submit proposals for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring Ukraine’s legislative acts into line with this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u632	I'm putting to the vote 421 amendments. I put her to the vote twice. Another 422, Ivan Aleksandrovich. 422 amendment, Ivan Alexandrovich. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u633	I propose that the fourth paragraph of Article 14 be deleted, where it is a matter of ensuring that the abolition of their laws is reviewed by ministries and other central executive bodies that are in conflict with this law. The point is that this law cannot be higher than the Constitution, and this law cannot open a revision of all Ukrainian legislation. I understand the idea of those who created these principles is to use this law to review the legislation I see by going through the Constitution. Because these people don't respect the law they don't need the law, they don't need the procedure, they don't follow the Rules Act they just need the fact that they're making a decision. Because it's not parliamentaryism, it's people who act on concepts, not the Constitution. So I suggest we remove these positions -- they're anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u634	Dear colleagues! I ask you now to put to the vote amendment 422 John the Rabbit. We're still going to be able to figure it out. [[23:36:10]] For -14 Correction not supported. That's how. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not voting right now. When before the vote, there will be motive. Let's calm down now. Now, Pisarenko, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u635	Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I want to put a motion for a vote: go back to the vote on the 407th amendment and vote on the 407th amendment in the author's second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u636	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'll explain the situation to you. The 407th amendment, it was edited. I put in for confirmation of this amendment, the Supreme Council did not support it. A colleague now asks that we put to the vote the amendment in the form in which he made it. So first of all, one minute, I'm going to put the vote on the return to the amendment, if the Supreme Council supports it, then we're going to move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] About getting back to the 407th Amendment. [[23:37:43]] For 240 They're back. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! What? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! What are you doing? We're talking about a completely different amendment. I'm voting on the proposal to support Pisarenko's revision of the author's paper. [[23:38:21]] For 244 Correction counted. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u637	Then let's vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u638	Dear colleagues! Let's go back to Amendment 419, where it's about that the Cabinet of Ministers will have the right to have an expert opinion on any bill. I remind the Constitution that “the subjects of the legislative initiative are the President of Ukraine, the National Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers. I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers won't know themselves, because it's the Cabinet of Ministers, and any bill of the President and the bill of each of the 450 national deputies will be considered by the Cabinet of Ministers. Kim? I see who's who. The Ministry of Justice. Who's in the Ministry and so on. So you and I are essentially going to be deprived of the President's right to legislative initiative. It is therefore proposed to withdraw the 419th amendment, where, “in the month following the publication of this law, it is proposed to take away the expertise of draft laws” and, where it is said, “the Cabinet of Ministers within three months to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a proposal to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with this law” - “to bring its legislation into line with this law and to ensure that the ministries and other central executive bodies review and repeal their legislative acts which conflict with this law”. Please vote in this order. [[Noise Nodes]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u639	Dear, distinguished colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I will now put to the vote to remove the position “in the month following the publication of this law to ensure the introduction of an expert opinion on draft laws and other legal and regulatory acts in accordance with the internal and external policies defined by this law”. And then the text. “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” remains, as the committee suggests, “at three months' notice, to prepare and submit proposals for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with this law, to bring its legislation into line with this law and to ensure that the ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch review and repeal their legislative acts which conflict with this law.” That's not all. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. It's a new edition. [[23:44:26]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is the new edition that we voted for here in batch. We don't have to go back to that. All amendments have been considered. We're going to vote now. With one minute's fractional motivation, please. Sign up for your motives. Identify which of the factions will speak alone. Maybe Yuri Carmazin didn't speak much today. One person. Please, Yuri Carmazin's microphone. You have one faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u640	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I remind you, 23 hours 46 minutes. And in a very unconstitutional way, without complying with the Rules of Procedure, I'll remind you that it was only given out today, that it was only given to the Legal Department this morning, and only after lunch did we get their conclusions -- small, short ones, because the conclusions couldn't be taken so quickly. I emphasize that this law is an attempt to change the Constitution, the constitutional system, to change the attitude to the root languages, to the root language, to the Ukrainian language. This law also brutally violates the principles of Ukraine's foreign policy, and we have even entered into the Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine, which has also worsened the current state of affairs. So we need a third reading for this law, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to clean up the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u641	Dear colleagues! Who else from the factions that didn't take advantage of the law? Alla Alexandrovska, please. Then Oleg Zarubinsky. There have already been speeches, John.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u642	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. The city of Harikov. Dear colleagues! Finally, a very important law has been adopted for Ukraine, for the people of Ukraine and for us, for Parliament, on the principles of internal and external policy. And it is quite right today that we have said that, of course, in order that our intentions as enshrined in this law will become a reality of our lives and ensure Ukraine's sustainable development, the strengthening of statehood, sovereignty, the strengthening of the protection of human rights. In order for this law to guarantee the well-being of the people of Ukraine, we must also implement it in future draft laws and in those laws that we will adopt and, of course, implement in the current legislative framework of Ukraine. Therefore, the Final Provisions have been correctly formulated here. And I am confident that we, the majority of us in Parliament and the Parliament as a whole and the authorities in general will abide by this basic law, which is very important to all of us and Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u643	Oleg Zarubinski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u644	Dear colleagues, lack of law, lack of principles of internal and external politics, what was to be implemented after 1996 according to the direct distribution of the Constitution, the absence of this for 14 years has led every new president, every new prime minister, to treat the current legislation of Ukraine, both inside the internal and external policies, including both conjunctures, including the political ones. To say that it is right not to accept the basic principles of internal and external politics is right, it is not a state position. Another issue is that the legislation that is to be followed should be in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine and this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u645	Dear colleagues. Alexander Efraemov, the performance of the faction was. Dear, well, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u646	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to thank all the members of the people who have participated most actively in the work on this bill. I would like to emphasize that it has been considered in accordance with the Rules Act, which we have adopted with you. And our colleagues from the opposition would like to stress that this law will discipline everyone and you will have to learn discipline. The five years you've been unpacked when you've let the whole country down are over. You need to understand that there is a new time when professionals will be appreciated, not boulders. And we must make concrete proposals to the legislative acts that are being tabled today, and these proposals will be assessed on whether they benefit the development of our State or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m1.u647	Dear colleagues! We completed our consideration of the draft Law. Let's move on to the vote. I'd just like to ask us to. We have three more votes now on two other issues besides everything else. So I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law. I'm asking you again. Dear colleagues! Calm down. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy, registration number 6451. Please vote. [[23:51:21]] For 259. The law is passed. [[Applause]] Thank you. The factions, please. Dear colleagues! Region Party – 171, “Timoshenko Block” – 25, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 13, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional - 4. I thank all the deputies who participated in the preparation and discussion of this bill, especially John the Rabbit, Alexander the Blacksmith, Jaroslav Jojik and Yuri Karmazin. Now, dear fellows! At the Conciliation Council, at the invitation of the Head of the Committee on TeKu Issues and at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it was proposed that we include in the agenda so that tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine could consider the draft Law on Principles and Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, which is registration number 6564. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Principles and Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. Registration number 6564. Please vote. [[23:52:36]] For 249 They've put the question in order of the day. And now, dear fellows! We need to vote on another proposal. To conclude the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm voting on the proposal to conclude the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can continue working in plenary tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Please vote. Ivan Alexanderovich, vote! [[23:53:14]] For 251 The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we continue our plenary work since 10:00 a.m.
