ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:04:26]] They registered in the 379 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Council, in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, participate: President of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Anatoly Sergiyovich Golovin, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues. Please welcome them. This is Ahmed Rinat Leonidovich and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the issue of the release of judges. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u2	Dear Mr. President, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished audiences! At its meeting on September 20, 2010, the Supreme Council of Justice considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the dismissal of judges under general conditions. You are well aware of the procedure. Judges are in a guest bed. The Committee recommends that discharges be made in connection with the application for discharge at the request of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Sergeychuk Oleg Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Zaporoznik Mikhail Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Gultay Mikhail Miroslavovich; Donetsk’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Shaptal Natal Kostinovna. Please support the draft of Decree 7149.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Everybody ready? I'm betting on a motion for a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the release of judges. [[Registration number 7149]] Please vote. In general, adopt the draft decree as a decree. [[10:07:07]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. On the basis of article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the 10th consecutive meeting of judges was appointed by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Gultay Mikhail Miroslavovich, Zaporoznik Mikhail Petrovich, Sergeychuk Oleg Anatoliyovich, Shaptal Natal Kostinenovna. According to article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act and part of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Gultai Mikhailo Miroslavovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u4	I, Gultai Mikhailo Miroslavovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, please welcome Mikhail Miroslavovich. [[Applause]] To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Zaporeznik Mikhail Petrovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u6	I, Zaporozhye Mikhailo Petrovich, solemnly swear to honor and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please welcome Michael Petrovich. [[Applause]] Judge Sergeychuk Oleg Anatoliyovich of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u8	I, Sergeychuk Oleg Anatoliyovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u9	Please welcome Oleg Anatolyovich. [[Applause]] To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Shaptal Natalia Konstantinovna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u10	I, the Shaptala Natalia Constantinena, solemnly swear to honor and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u11	Welcome to Natalia Konstantinovna. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 5 and 9 of the Law “On the Supreme Council of Justice” on September 20, 2010, the President of Ukraine issued the Order on the appointment of Kobilian Mikola Henrichovich as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. On 16 September 201, on the basis of article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two of article 5 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, the tenth consecutive meeting of judges was appointed by the members of the High Council of Justice, Thoros Inin Aleksiyevna and Widowichenko Alexander Sergiyovich. According to article 17 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, part of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules before taking office as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice is sworn in at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Kobilian Mikola Henrichovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u12	I, the Kobilian Mikola Henrichovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u13	Let's welcome Mikola Henrichovich. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Thoros Inna Alexiyevna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u14	I, Odrás Inna Alexiyevna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u15	Welcome. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Udivichenko Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u16	I'm, uh... Widower Alexander Sergiyyovich, I have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u17	Welcome, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let us thank the President of Ukraine for his participation in our meeting, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Constitutional Court and the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and reports. I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Please, Yavorowski, the BUT faction. Prepare Martinek. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u19	I am willing to give the word to the head of the opposition government, Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u20	Please, Sergey Sobolev, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u21	Dear Head, colleagues, voters, the Supreme Council begins another session week under conditions when a new serious crisis unfolds in Ukraine. This time it's not an economic or banking crisis, or a financial crisis, it's a price crisis that strikes at the top of the ordinary citizens and the least protected population: pensioners, teachers, doctors -- those on the budget. Today, more and more people feel that way. This month, citizens’ tariffs and utilities pay 50 percent more. Daily food prices are rising from 3 to 5 percent on average. In addition to this, it is clear that we are experiencing an autumn period when there has always been a further decline in crop prices in relation to our own support households that this process has become uncontrollable. In some cities, in fact, the central authorities have been inspired by local authorities to raise prices and tariffs and utility bills uncontrollably. In fact, the situation in Ukraine allows. all the reasons to say that this is just the beginning of those negative trends that have to do with the uncontrolled issue of the central bank to which the government is pressing. And this beginning, in our view, will lead to an uncontrolled situation with prices on the market for services, goods, and direct food. A clear example of this is that for the first time in recent years, the number of people living outside poverty has increased by 10 percent in just four months. This is official information published directly by the United Nations regarding Ukraine. The reason for this is obvious. It is clear to us that all the screams and voices about the previous government of what has not been done are gone. We need to ask this government what it is that's done. And now it's clear that the deal is signed with the International Monetary Fund, which provides for the freezing of salaries for teachers, doctors and everyone in the state administration, the direct lifting of tariffs on gas by 50 percent from August 1st and from April 1st of the following year by another 50 percent, which entails the raising of municipal tariffs. All of this is a sign of that inconvenient agreement that was signed for one purpose: at any cost to the IMF. We'd like to give an example of the previous government that put almost $11 billion into the National Bank of Ukraine to support the national currency, and it didn't allow the price of gas to rise, nor the price of municipal tariffs to rise. This is an example of how to negotiate with international organizations. The openly populist statements of today's government that we're going to raise wages and pensions, ended in nothing at all: the wages and pensions that we promised to raise so actively in the elections are actually frozen today, and given the price increases, they are actually falling. In all of these circumstances, we offer four real solutions to this situation in the form of legislative initiatives, namely, the immediate consideration of the bill to impose a moratorium on the price of gas, which is the gas of Ukrainian production. The second is the imposition of a moratorium on the raising of municipal tariffs, because now the so-called independent body will do so and dictate conditions to the local authorities. The third is the imposition of a moratorium on all laws that provide for the rise of retirement age for women. And the fourth thing that's been promised so long by today's authorities, and in fact today we see in the Tax Code draft, is actually the pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, we're proposing to introduce five-year holidays for small businesses. It is these measures that will enable those truly underprivileged citizens to receive the necessary support to survive these calamitous times. And the last. We propose, considering that these days the journalistic world community has celebrated the anniversary of the death of Georgia Gongadze, to honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u22	Finish up. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u24	I gave the opportunity to finish, the man kept quiet. So I'm gonna talk for him?Oh, my God! Martinenko, please, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the same rakes are being attacked by politicians the next day. Closer to the next election brings new political upheavals to Parliament. Instead, attention is deliberately diverted from the mainstream, from the economy. In a figurative sense, instead of bread, people try to switch to performances artificially. From the session room, they're doing a political talk show. A clear example of some members of the coalition was the draft Law on Languages. It was not difficult to predict that he would provoke opposition in society and in Parliament. Not everyone in the coalition is thrilled about another language issue. Moreover, Russian language in Ukraine is not at risk. Obviously, granting it regional status is a direct way to abolish the state status of the Ukrainian language. On the spot, the “creature” has already begun to implement the law that has not yet been passed. Last week, Ms. Sevastopol gave birth to a brilliant idea of channeling road repairs to duplicate road signs in Russian. But when you jump on a bump, it's hard to read a sign in any language. So I call on all factions to abandon speculation on conflict issues and not to impose laws that deliberately split society. We have to do economics, raise people's living standards, that's what everyone declares without exception politics. But economic hardships did not end. Therefore, it is for the government and parliament to come to the fore with economic bills, starting with the Tax Code and the State Budget project for 2011. Despite all the promises, the government draft of the Tax Code has not yet been received. It is vital that he does not show another freshness, regardless of his eye commercials. The main thing is not to repeat mistakes with the previous project and to take the most responsible approach to the adoption of the Tax Code with a certain follow-up to all procedures. And the 2011 State Budget, the Cabinet of Ministers, has tried to quietly submit to Parliament on an old tax base, despite numerous promises to present a progressive budget that will boost economic growth and make life easier for people. But even the draft budget was not seen by any of the deputies. His mysterious appearance and his swift return resembled an attempt to create an alibi government, he said, all served the legal terms. In addition to these basic documents, a number of economic laws must be adopted. In virtually every field, parliamentarians owed a lot to society. Entrepreneurs look forward to the promised package of laws on business deregulation, including a major reduction in the number of licensed activities. Or take an agrarian branch. There are still no laws on cadastre, land market, and government mortgage banks. This list can be continued and continued. Legislatures should be repaid, but the quality of laws should be kept in mind. The head of the Supreme Council promised that he would no longer allow the people’s deputies to violate Parliament’s Rules. Better late than never. I have repeatedly called attention to numerous violations of the Coalition Rules Act, such as neglecting to consider projects on the first and second reading committees. Parliament's algorithm must be simple. Focus on economic bills. And bring them to their minds, according to regulatory procedures. Otherwise, I'm sorry about the pathetic, the economic stalemate could be a political disaster. I hope our politicians will have enough sanity to prevent that from happening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u26	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u27	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The first plenary week of the seventh session of the Supreme Council left no doubt about the real purpose of the opposition. In due course, its leaders almost destroyed the country, and now without any shame, they are trying to impose on Ukraine the need for their return to power. But is that what the people want? No doubt, no! The task of the civilized opposition is to point the authorities at its miscalculations and to offer reasonable alternatives. But our indigenous opposition sees the challenge only in destroying stability in the country. They are saddened by the political failure they face in the October 31st local elections by trying to embellish another portion of lies and dirt. The opposition today has nothing to offer to get the country out of the crisis. It seems that our opponents simply do not have the intellectual capacity to develop their own vision of how the country develops. After all, the moratorium on price increases is populism, which will lead the country into a deadlock, lead to a shortage of products and create a black market where prices will be even higher. The environment of the former Prime Minister is also cynical that the increase in tariffs today is a direct result of the chaos that struck Ukraine precisely as a result of the presence of Yulia Timoshenko in the leadership of the Government. As a representative of the responsible political force, with the support of millions of voters, we cannot allow any group of individuals to implement the destabilisation scenario in Ukraine. The Parliamentary Coalition on Stability and Reform uses all available legal opportunities to bring Parliament back to normal. We will not allow anyone with any slogans and flags to spread our common Ukrainian ship. We have enough votes to adopt laws that are vital to the country. And to our opponents, I refer to the words of the well-known public figure of Stolipin. You need great shocks, and we need a great Ukraine that is prosperous, free, democratic. Dear colleagues, the efforts of the authorities have already resulted in the stabilization of the economic situation and the creation of a stock of strength for systemic reforms. As President Herman van Rompei of the European Union has stated during his meeting with the head of State of Ukraine, Ukraine is now experiencing a period of political stability based on the coordination of the actions of the President and the Government and the support of the majority in Parliament. This not only provides an opportunity to move forward in reforms, but restores the trust vested in the former authorities in Ukraine by foreign partners. The successful deployment of Ukraine's Eurobonds worth $2 billion made last week in accordance with the State Budget Act 2010. The release of securities of value to the benefit of our country, as it has been quite recently, has generated unprecedented investor interest and has been the first successful eurobonding in Ukraine since 2007. Not all of them are clearly in power, but the work is going on, and our citizens will appreciate the result. The main thing is that all branches of government work for the first time in a long time as clockwork, stacked, clear, rhythmic. We are not hiding to build a quality new country, we will all have to go through the difficult but vital reforms initiated by the Head of State. In order to provide legislative support for reforms, we have a number of important issues to take. Among the priorities of Parliament's consideration of the draft Tax Code. This is a code that will conform to world business standards and create an enabling environment for investors. Tax reform is the cornerstone of the planned deep modernization of the Ukrainian economy. The Tax Code is intended to reduce fiscal pressure on business, creating preconditions for increasing budget salaries by one and a half times over the next two years. On the basis of the new code, a draft budget for 2011 will be developed. And let the opponents hear us, no excesses of you will interfere with the full consideration of this vital document in the walls of Parliament. Dear colleagues, one of the stages of Ukraine's development as a European State is the holding of democratic elections to local authorities. President Viktor Janukovic commissioned all verticals of power to hold elections on 31 October on the basis of respect for legitimate non-interference of power in the electoral campaign. But today, power in the regions, and hence the democratic responsibility of the electoral process, belongs not only to the Party of the Regions, but also to other political forces, including the opposition. On this basis, we invite all constructive politicians to change the agenda of the campaign and to move from baseless accusations to discussing ways to improve the lives of each region and every citizen. That is what the people of Ukraine expect of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u28	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Next is George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u29	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! The Communist faction has instructed me to speak today and to raise three vicious questions that concern the population of Ukraine today. I'll start with the credit unions. On one side, credit unions are one of the most accessible forms of consumer credit and it is not surprising, therefore, that out of one and a half million participants, pensioners and other disadvantaged sectors of the population make up the main mass. On the other hand, this is the subject of my speech today, in the Ukrainian realities, credit unions during the period of Yushchenko's rule in the hands of unprincipled machinators are rapidly becoming financial pyramids, such as the sad-known trust lochotrons of the mid-1990s. Remember, there were House Selling, Oberig, Mercury and a number of others. So far, according to the State Service, the total number of fraudulent investors in credit unions is estimated at tens of thousands, and the amount of untrustworthy deposits is already approaching one and a half billion dollars. Nearly 200 credit unions in Ukraine are in a critical position and require financial recovery. Political will is needed, and the strongest state control over the activities of credit unions is needed. Machinators and apherists must be brought to justice. Clearly, this is not a day’s work, so I believe that we are now obliged to extend our hand to those in need of protection and support. To that end, the establishment of the State budget for the next year should provide for at least 1 billion 800 million bracelets for the reform and repayment of debts to members of credit unions. The Credit Unions Act should also be amended. I think and believe that such rigid but just measures will help to establish order, restore confidence in the State and improve the material situation of workers. Second question. Bill 6694 on market surveillance and quality control of products has been submitted. It is not necessary to be seven feet in the forehead to understand: the proposed bill, a clean water affair, is aimed at discrediting the President and the coalition. In fact, the bill proposes to eliminate State and public control over the quality of products produced and imported into the country, to make the consumer market of Ukraine a different place of world production, and to deprive consumers of any opportunity to fight for their constitutional rights to acquire goods, services and high-quality products. I appeal to the President, and I propose to order the repeal of Bill 6694 as one against the interests of society, to begin to refine it in order to guarantee the State protection of the rights of ordinary consumers to quality food, medicine and services. I'm not going to open those television shows today, in the newspapers, when it's dangerous to drink not just water, but water from the artesian wells. And one last question. Another reform has begun in Minugleprom today. The Minogleprom plans to divide the mines into three groups. The first and second will be privatized and the third will prepare for closure. Where mines that will belong to the State are unknown. During the reform process, the safety of work has been significantly reduced. Coal is being implemented through opaque schemes, and most importantly, people have stopped paying their wages on time. In addition, following the withdrawal of enterprises from State control, the Government has lost the opportunity to influence financial and social problems in these mines. We are standing in Donbass before the technological catastrophe: Selidovo, Enakievo, Nikitovka to date can almost sink Donbass at any time. The point is, if we don't figure out that used mines have to be used as pumping devices, we're going to bury Donbass. And all this is happening with you and me, respectable colleagues, permissiveness. I therefore propose to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u30	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u31	Consider progress in the reform of the coal sector in the Supreme Council in plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u32	Yuri Litwin, please, your right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u33	"Block of Lithuania" faction, People's Party, representative of Kirovogradina. Dear colleagues, the issue of my speech is the problems of rural employment, which are common to all the territories of our country. The restructuring of former collective farms has caused many to lose their jobs. In recent years the rural labor market has not experienced the best of times. This is evidenced by the reduction in production volumes and the steady decline in the number of rural populations, which has a significant impact on the volume of demand and labour supply. A number of factors have affected the village’s decline. Whether it is a decline in birth rates or an increase in rural mortality is the most important. The specificity of agricultural production gives rise to a number of characteristics of the labour market. As a result, some agricultural workers are out of work, filling the unemployed for one reason: seasonality. So over the year, the ratio between demand and labour supply in the agar sector is characterized by uneven growth. No less important feature of the labour market as a whole, as well as of the agar, is certainly migration movement. The main reasons for the outflow of personnel from the village are the negative socio-economic factors that are manifested in inadequate housing and cultural and household conditions, the irrational working and rest regime, the decline in the attractiveness and prestige of agricultural work, the lack of efficiency in the social protection system for peasants and the imperfections of labour relations. The problem of population employment today is one of the most painful and acute problems in the country. Throughout all the years of independence, Ukraine’s village has consistently fallen out of the list of objects of annual and strategic employment programs, the employment of rural, rural populations, unfortunately, has not been the main criterion of agar reforms, despite their stated social orientation. The level of rural unemployment is at least one order higher than the official amount recorded in our country. Rural employment should be managed in two ways: by reforming income policies and their taxation systems by influencing economic values to enhance the resource potential of rural economic operators. In rural areas, the main means of subsistence for most peasants in terms of a steady decline in the role of wage employment in the official economy has been the personal support of the population, with an average of 54 percent of the total income of rural families. In recent times, there has been a trend towards an increase in wages for agricultural workers compared to other sectors of the economy, and at the level of pay for work it is in the latter place and at the level of debt from wages in the second place among the economic sectors. The main directions for implementing public employment policies in rural areas today are: this shift in tax legislation to rural business needs, which requires the expansion of a simplified business taxation system. With the process of moving hidden unemployment into an open form as a result of the acceleration of agrarian reform, small business must become a major segment of agrarian market infrastructure. The problem of lending the agricultural economy to the banking system should be addressed with the simultaneous overcoming of the price imbalance between agricultural and industrial production, especially between agriculture and the processing industry. In order to increase the employment of the rural population in the area of social protection, it is necessary to guarantee the payment of wages, which must not be below the legislative minimum wage level and the non-delaying of wages. Animal farming is one of the most laborious sectors in the world. The predominant development of animal production will contribute to the decline in the agricultural sector of seasonal unemployment. Today’s labour market needs both the high quality of the workforce and the ability to quickly retrain it according to changing requirements. The latter, and generally the low level of rural application, make it very difficult to employ people who have education. First of all, the category of hard - working people refers to young people after completing colleges, PTUs, and secondary schools, the so - called primary employment chain. The low retirement rate of older ones in rural areas will move them to work, including in private agriculture, to obtain additional livelihoods. Today, the status of self - employed peasants, owners of rations and personal support farms remains unregulated, making it more difficult for such citizens to deal with the employment center and lead to a reasonable payment of unemployment benefits. At the same time, employment in the informal sector is increasing as farmers become more self - employed in their own land areas without public registration as subjects of entrepreneurial activity. The labour market is a mirror of economics, socio-economic relations in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u34	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u35	In the social sphere, there are considerable challenges to employment in rural areas. Thus, the importance of regulating the employment of the rural population is certainly unquestionable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. With regard to the proposals made in the applications, reports and information of the national deputies, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, I give you the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 7 to 10 September. There were five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 43 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 11 laws and 8 regulations were passed, 7 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 2 bills were returned to the committee for further consideration, 13 bills and 7 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I give you a message in the form of a notice of expulsion from the factions of the Ukrainian National Deputies, from the BUT faction: Barbinka Vitalia Dmitrovitcha, Budgerak Alexander Aleksandrovitcha, Verevski Andrija Mihajlovich, Vorotnjak Igor Borisovich, Gacka Valerija Petrovich, Geyman Oleg Azikovich, Zadirka Hennadija Aleksandrovitcha, Zubova Valentina Sergiyovicha, Ivanenka Vladimiri Grigorovitcha, Kamka Valerija Grigorovitcha, Chaplinka Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, Constantinova Evgena Semenovicha, Kruk Jurija Borisovicha, Kouzmenka Petra Pavlovicha, Kurila Vitalia Seminovicha, Maliča Olegmirovicha, Olijnika Luslav Basilovica, Oslav Basilovica, Omeljanovića A total of 28 national deputies. I also inform you, honourable national deputies, of the updating of the leadership of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The leadership will continue with this: Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the head of the faction, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, the first deputy of the faction head, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, School Andriy Vasilovich and Stusik Olena Jurijovna, the deputy heads of the faction. Another announcement. Dear colleagues, prior to your announcement of September 8, 2010, the chairman of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine announced a change in the name of the deputy faction "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko" to "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland" on the basis of the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko". Since this is not in line with the requirement of Ukrainian legislation, as stated in a letter from the Committee on Rules, MPs, and security of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since September 14, 2010, this announcement has no legal effect. In this regard, I am tasking the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure that appropriate organisational and technical measures are taken to use the official name of the deputy faction, the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to cause any trouble on this matter. You will consider it necessary to name yourself. Dear colleagues, you will announce any name and it will be accepted. I have once again checked, in accordance with the Rules, that this cannot really be done, because the Rules require that the faction that was named during the electoral campaign should keep that name throughout all its activities. So I wouldn't want to see any political subtexts here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Andriy Anatoliyovich, I'm telling you that I wanted to propose and change the name of the faction that you do, but it turns out you can't do that, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, September 21. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On the Defence of Ukraine" and "On the Armed Forces of Ukraine". [[on intelligence activities]] Reporter – Minister of Defence Ježel Mikhailo Bronislavovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:47:04]] For 210 Michael Bronislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending Ukraine's Defence of Ukraine and Ukraine's Armed Forces is aimed at regulating the activities of the military forces and the units of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense's intelligence unit. The completeness and quality of the exploration tasks depends on the complex involvement of all components of the Ukrainian military intelligence systems: the Agency, the Radioelectronic, the Space, the Sea, the Air and the Special. At this time, Ukraine's military intelligence system regulates the activities of only the intelligence body of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Chief Intelligence Directorate. At the same time, for the timely identification of real threats to Ukraine’s national security, as well as for the preparation of the state for the defence and timely use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the purpose of the military part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces’ military intelligence, there is constant military rotation. At present, the issue of the involvement of the authorities and military forces in the exploration of species of the Ukrainian Armed Forces remains unresolved until they carry out their intelligence tasks in peacetime. The adoption of these changes and additions to Ukraine’s laws will ensure that the entire Ukrainian military intelligence system is resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, please support our proposals aimed at strengthening the defence potential of our nation. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u38	Thank you, Michael Bronislavovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, has a report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Our committee has been working on this bill with the participation of the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Intelligence Directorate, the Cabinet Secretariat, the President's Administration, and over the past few months, I have come up with a bill that I'm about to read. And if there was agreement in most of the Supreme Council, it could be accepted as a whole. This is our unanimity position of the committee. But for the protocol, for the transcript, I'll read it. Amend the following laws: article 3 of the Ukrainian Defence Act after paragraph 2 to add the following new paragraph: “Investigative and information-analytical activities are carried out in the interests of the preparation of the State for defence”. In this regard, paragraphs 3 and 16 are considered to be paragraphs 4 and 17. The other one. Article 1 of the Ukrainian Act “On the Armed Forces of Ukraine, after part four, add a new part five to the following content: ‘The military intelligence authorities and the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces may, in accordance with the Act, take part in the process of obtaining intelligence in order to prepare the state for defence and to ensure the readiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to defend the state.’ In this regard, part five and eighth are considered to be sections six and nine respectively. Third. Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law “On Ukrainian Intelligence Authorities” after part two, add a new part of the third such content, “The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense Intelligence Intelligence Authority may involve the military intelligence and military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in a manner determined by the President of Ukraine to take on intelligence for the purpose of preparing the state to defend and ensure the readiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to defend the state. In these cases, the provisions of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act and the operational and search activities governing the definition of legal status, the granting of powers and the guarantee of social protection do not extend to members of the military and personnel of the designated bodies and military units. In this regard, the third and fourth parts are considered to be parts four and five respectively. And the last. “Final positions”. This law takes effect from the day it was published.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u40	Please continue to make your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u41	The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a three-month period from the date of entry into force of this law, shall bring its legal acts into conformity with this law, ensure that the Ministry and other central authorities of the executive branch of their legislation comply with this law. I'd like to support this bill that's possible for our intelligence agencies, and if you'll accept it, take it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Prokopchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Please, from the rostrum or from the microphone? In the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u43	Yuri Prokopchuk, faction of the “Batakščina” – “Batakščina” – “Batakščina” – “Batakščina”. Undoubtedly, this bill needs to be supported because it deals with a very large number of issues that we need today, as we say, to be resolved for our intelligence agencies in order for them to work effectively. It will also really strengthen social protection, including those who work in these organs. And one more question. When recently the 10th anniversary of the death of the famous journalist Georgia Gongadze, who was brutally tortured by the “Kuchmew” regime, was literally marked. Please honor the memory of Georgia Gongadze and all journalists who died in silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u44	I don't understand what this is about. Please sit down. No, it's not. The speaker is still there. Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, really the purpose of this law is to ensure the regulatory and legal regulation of military intelligence and the functioning of all of these structural units of military intelligence. I only have one question to ask the authors. It's about protecting the state. What if it is not just the state but the citizens of the nations that are abroad? How is intelligence for the protection of the interests and lives of citizens of the state outside the State of Ukraine distributed? How does military intelligence and the Ministry of Defense Information and Analysis take part in this? I mean, I think it's the right thing to do, not just the state, but the citizens of the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? The committee's proposal is that, taking into account the committee's proposals, it adopts the law as a basis and as a whole. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of Defense, agrees. That's why I, my dear fellows, will first put the adoption vote on the basis of the committee's proposals. And then we'll continue to define. I'm betting on a draft bill, registration number 6490, based on the committee's proposals. This is a draft law amending the laws of Ukraine "On the Defence of Ukraine" and "On the Armed Forces of Ukraine". [[on intelligence activities]] Please vote. [[10:55:28]] For 282 Decision taken. No other comments, no warnings? So I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law as a whole as a law that takes into account the committee's proposals that we've already voted on. Registration number 6490. Please vote. [[10:56:01]] For-286 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, two factions: the BUT faction and the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” require a recess or declaration of a statement. Darchenko, microphone, please, or on the rostrum, please. I've already announced the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, today is the beginning of the sessional week, and we see the agenda, we see absolutely irrelevant questions for Ukrainian society. Today it was necessary for the Party of Regions under pressure here, under the protection of the plates from its party, to bring the carcass to the Constitutional Court. The questions raised by the opposition: the issue of a moratorium on gas, housing services are not being considered, the question of introducing a moratorium on retirement age is not being considered. Dear friends, today you are telling us clearly that it is possible to consider these issues on Wednesday when there is a day of opposition. There's no such thing as a day-to-day thing. The people of Ukraine need to understand that today this stability of society, today the order you're talking about, is being built with one goal: to build a favourable environment for the work of the gas mafia. Today you have to say clearly that you're building Ukraine, not for people, but for the gas mafia, for Firtash and Ahmedov. We're clearly asking questions about the issues that all people need -- a moratorium on utilities, a moratorium on gas, that's an increase in retirement age. Dear friends, all the conditions have been created to bring about reforms for the communal economy. Today’s laws have been passed, regulate, and implement reform in the LHC. Instead of working there, taking debt out of Firtas' lies, you raise gas tariffs for the population. Is that human? I want to assure you that the "Timoshenko Yulia Block", the "Fatherland" party, will severely block the rostrum, ask questions about how these issues will be dealt with in the day-to-day first, rather than building a stable government that aims to undermine people's interests today. Dear friends, what can we say? What are the economic reforms that are taking place? None of them happen. Today we can talk about economic failure, not the economic breakthrough of the Party of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u48	Yes, Jaroslav Jojik, please, what's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u49	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council has just voted Amendments to the Ukrainian Defence Act and the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Without questioning the appropriateness of adopting these bills, I point out to the entire room that this bill is far from the highest priority on issues related to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because the main problem we have today in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is the state of financing the Ukrainian Armed Forces. For several months now, he has received the approval and approval of members of the coalition, and from the opposition a bill of national deputies Kostenka, Hare and Jojik to secure funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces is no less than 2 per cent of GDP. I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, address you as Head of the Supreme Council immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u50	Dear colleague, I've heard. I ask the secretariat and the committee to submit this bill for next plenary week for consideration, especially considering that we will be adopting the budget for the following year. So let us make a final decision. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Registration of Covenants. [[Registration number 6697]] There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[11:01:22]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Justice Minister Valery Volodymyrovna Luzkovska, and the co-rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus Oleg Grigorovich. And unto your knowledge are the honourable ones of the nations, and those who listen to us. My colleague Odarchenka said that there are no relevant bills in our plan this week. They're all scheduled for this plenary week, let's look at them. Please, Valeria Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your view is proposed by a draft law that is closely linked to the Convention on the Implementation of the Will Registration System, already ratified on July 9, 2010. In order for the Convention to exist and be implemented in Ukraine, another bill would be needed to implement it into national legislation. This is the bill that is now being proposed for your consideration. This project proposes some changes to the articles of the Civil Code to determine that wills, wills, wills and will be amended, as well as inheritance contracts will be subject to mandatory government registration in the inheritance register in order to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, with the amendments to article 8 of the Act on Notariat, we propose to allow the right of any person, even if he is not an heir under the law, to witness the death of an heir, but considers himself to be a probable heir under the will to determine the existence of a will and its place of preservation. In addition, amendments to other articles of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat provide for registration of vows, new covenants, changes to the will and cancellation of the will in the inheritance register. It is proposed that this law will take effect six months from the date of its publication, and in the meantime the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will ensure the development and adoption of the statute of succession. In this regard, I ask for the adoption of the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Registration of Covenants as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u52	Thank you. Have a seat, Valeria Volodymyrna. Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, please, your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u53	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed the bill and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the adoption of the draft in the first reading. The proposed changes should ensure the proper fulfilment of our State’s obligations under this international treaty, namely the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on the Registration of Covenants in the National Legislation of Ukraine, the establishment of a mechanism for the implementation of this convention within the framework of the current legislation of Ukraine, and the improvement of the existing order for the implementation of the Covenants and Inheritances. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends the adoption of this project in the first reading on the basis of further comments made by the deputies. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council notes that the bill mentioned above has no impact on the income or expenditure of the budget. The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy supports the adoption of the bill, taking into account the position of our committee. Please support the committee's recommendation decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u54	Oleg Grigorovich, thank you. People's deputies would like to sign up for a bill. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u55	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland”. Dear colleagues, for Ukrainians, the adoption of this bill is indeed very, very important. The thing is, our Ukrainian people are literally scattered around the world as a result of various peripetions -- historical, military. And indeed, I could call here a few episodes that I personally know about when, let's say, there's a Ukrainian lonely, usually a Ukrainian dying there, leaving very large possessions, or medium assets, on which then his relatives from this, in the Great Ukraine, as they call, simply-just couldn't reach them and couldn't, let't, let's say, transfer them to their property. Because of this, it seems to me that this approach to such an international arena in this matter is, indeed, very important for Ukraine and needs to be brought back to normal. It's important, indeed, especially today, when there's a third wave of economic emigration, it's when people go to pay. This applies to them the same way. Because Yulia Timoshenko will vote in favour of this bill, it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u56	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions will also support this bill, but I have asked words to draw the attention of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, using the presence here of the Deputy Minister of Justice of Lutkovska Valeria Volodymyrna, to the fact that the wills today are in the state's notarial contraries. And does the Ministry of Justice know that the district administrations of justice, which are done in these state notary offices, when a person needs to come and do some kind of recording or some other act? The queues are busy at night, in the morning, and the queues are unbearable. In general, if you and I were to now decide whether to listen to any other question at parliamentary hearings, for example, I would suggest that you listen to the question of eliminating the queues in which a Ukrainian citizen is forced to stand, whether trying to get help, or even a notable attempt to pay for that crazy quarter, or trying to make other acts, it's what, and what, once, during the Soviet Union all the time. Today, unfortunately, these times return to the worst of times when the turn takes up free time and is, in my opinion, an open and frank humiliation of a Ukrainian citizen. Whether in BTI or in landowners, you will not be able to obtain the necessary document in a calm, normal atmosphere and an answer. So I would ask the Ministry of Justice to carry out such a complex examination of the activities of the state notary offices under which they work, whether there is room for people to wait, or why there is such a crazy queue? Are they, at times, created in a special way? We should improve our lives, not make our lives worse. And this bill certainly needs to be decided and the convention deserves to be amended by the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I put to the vote, please note, the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Implementation of the will registration system. [[Registration number 6697]] Please vote. [[11:09:57]] For 287 Decision taken. Please note the microphone of the Vice Minister of Justice of Lutkov Valeria Volodymyr. As far as you're concerned. Yes, you can. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that there are, in fact, a few comments made regarding this bill. In particular, the first remark concerns what we are asked to take into account that the Reserve has the right to refuse to register the will, but I would like to point out that article four of the convention states that the Reserve has the right to refuse to register the will if the law of the Contracting State does not prohibit such refusal. That is, the State does not rely on such an obligation to establish such a right for a commandment. What's more, if we want to put order in order, if we want to make arrangements with the vows that we have today. We know there are some problems, so the registration should be for everyone. And if it is possible not to register wills, it will not solve the problem and there will be no real implementation of the Convention. In addition, it is suggested that during life the promise of a will registration is not to be made public. The point is that this has already been reflected in article 8 of the Notaryate Act of Ukraine. In particular, part eight. Article 8 of this Law proposes to determine that an extract from the inheritance register of a covenant that has been made for the disfellowshipping of a covenant is to be issued only after the death of the commandment. So this is already considered as such. Suggests to remove from the project changes to article 13. 04 Ukraine’s Civil Code on Registration of Inheritance Contracts, since the Convention provides for registration of only wills. But in accordance with article 11 of the Convention, each treaty party is party to it. The State has the right to the conditions defined by it to extend the will registration system to any other will not specified in Article 4 or any other document, which means that the State is free, to which it can extend the operation of this Convention. And according to the essence of the inheritance contract. This is exactly the kind of document you need to extend your registration to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u60	Please, everything, right? Dear colleagues, this is an explanation we have received from the Ministry of Justice. If we accept these explanations and explanations, we had reason to put all the adoptions of this law in general so that we would not drag and drag again and delay the final decision. Is there no objection? Since there is no objection, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the ratification of the Convention on the Registration of Covenants as a whole. Registration number 6697. Please vote. [[11:13:15]] For 284 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider two bills in order to bring them into the agenda. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports its inclusion in the agenda, we will have the opportunity to consider them at an evening meeting, provided that the committee decisions are appropriate. The offer is understood, is it understood? That is why I am now voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Restraint Act in Ukraine dangerous products. [[Registration number 7094]] Please vote. [[11:14:12]] For 251 Decision taken. I'm asking the rapporteur for 16 hours from the government, from the President, to be prepared to address this issue. I now put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on the financing of the local elections]] [[Registration number 7142]] Please vote. [[11:14:58]] For 245 Decision taken. Likewise, I ask the committee to prepare. If the committee is not ready for 16 hours, then on Thursday we must consider and make a final decision. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues related to the ratification of treaties. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. [[Registration number 0171]] Rapporteur – Deputy Justice Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrovna, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus Oleg Grigorovitch. And I'm asking for a very brief and concise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to ratify the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Brazil on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. Under this treaty, individuals who are citizens of Ukraine but who have been sentenced in Brazilian territory will be able to be punished in Ukraine for their further normal resolidation of their return to society and, accordingly, Brazilian citizens can be punished in the territory of their country. Such agreements have already been made by Ukraine, and this has vindicated itself, for this really helps to resocialize the condemned. Today we have no Brazilians in our prison, but we have two Ukrainian citizens serving sentences in Brazil. And I ask you accordingly to support our proposal to ratify this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u62	One minute, perhaps there are questions, dear colleagues. If there is, please log in, if not, then do not write it down. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Horny, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u63	Your Honor, I have a very interesting and very relevant question right now, considering that you represent the Ministry of Justice. Today, in some areas of the administration of justice, violations of the Law on Political Parties, so - called clones of political organizations, are registered. How do you feel about this, and what do you propose to do in this case with our party organizations?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u64	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you that we would essentially discuss the matter. If there is a problem with asking questions to the Ministry of Justice, I ask you for the next plenary week on Friday “on the hour of the Government” to invite a representative from the Ministry of Justice, and all questions will be answered, more specifically, by the minister, because this plenary week is invited by the Minister of Social Policy and Labour. Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u65	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. That's my question. Of course, that statistic you're talking about is very good, because only two Ukrainians who are convicted in Brazilian territory are positive and say that Ukrainians are conscientiously implementing legislation in the country where they live. At the same time, I have a question of the following character, whether you have information, those countries that we have not ratified, but our citizens or citizens of those countries that need to consider today. Do you have such information about the need to ratify in order to be able to exchange those condemned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u66	Thank you so much for asking. I must say that it is difficult to say that we have bilateral contracts and that we have multilateral contracts and that the work of transferring those condemned to the State of which they are citizens is carried on constantly. I could say that, on average, we pass on, we make decisions about the transfer of 5 to 6 people per week. Regarding what needs to be done next, here I can say that this work is also being done, the President’s decree has created an appropriate expert group that is constantly working to increase this contractual base and, as soon as information on the condemnation of Ukrainians in another state appears, we are trying to make an appropriate agreement and make it effective as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u67	Thank you, Valery Volodymyr. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee. The committee's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u68	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered and discussed this bill, its adoption, its ratification, will allow the parties to provide mutual legal assistance to each other, the country will provide mutual legal assistance for the transfer of convicted persons to the State of which they are citizens. This is normal international practice, and it has proved to be productive in terms of the socialization and rehabilitation of convicted persons, as well as the protection of human rights. The adoption of this law does not require additional financial costs from the State budget, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers the treaty between Ukraine and Brazil to be an appropriate ratification. And the Committee on Rules of Procedure found no comments. The Committee on Law Enforcement is of the view that it is appropriate to adopt the bill. Please support the committee's recommendation decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question for the committee? Oleg Grigorovich, there's a question about Sergei Shevchuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Dear head of the profile committee, please tell us how relevant this question is, how much time do we spend on? After all, there are no Brazilians in Ukrainian prisons and only two Ukrainians in Brazilian prisons? Is this really an urgent, up - to - date question? Now, I know that recently our guarantor was in Hong Kong and recommended the creation of a visa-free regime. This means that in Ukraine, millions of people are now potentially able not only to Hong Kong but also to come and do all sorts of things here in China, and this is much more relevant than in Brazil, where no Brazilian is in prison. Why ask a question that is not important to Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u71	Dear colleague, this is a mere framework agreement of the country under the conditions of globalization, and the intensity of international, commercial economic, humanitarian relations is in the process of concluding these agreements. Even if one is condemned, he has human rights and should be guaranteed as a state. It's about resocialization -- restoring this person to society. So the deputy minister reported that the number of those convicted on both sides was increasing. Every day we have to decide the fate of about 5 to 6 people, and this is an increasing process. Therefore, surely, the agreement that has been signed must be ratified by our Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u72	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? You don't? Is it? Please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yes, please show me from the MPs who will be speaking? Names on the board, please. Gregory Smythuch, Taras Cnerwell, and Vladimir Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Garbage, Party of Regions. Of course, this law, which has a bilateral relationship between our country and Brazil, needs to be ratified. Moreover, he does not bear any national or other issue that is and needs further discussion. But at the same time, I took advantage of the opportunity to go to this rostrum on the basis that, of course, bilateral agreements only need to be made. And when they're signed, and they have parity origins. The fact that I was represented here by a representative from the BUT faction, I did not confirm once again with my actions, speeches and legislative acts that are being submitted to the Supreme Council as to what Ukraine needs, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Justice to activate its work on the grounds that our parity attitudes are not built only to ratify such agreements that we are considering today. And on such agreements as apply to a large part of our population. Why do I say that? You know that Ukrainians work more than 5 million abroad. They have an emigration status for the time period. Because this part is increasing in summer, the winter is shrinking. But in general, this refers to a very large part of the population, our population. And of course, people who work abroad or are temporarily abroad need our protection. Or at least the attitude of our country. Well, part of the visa. We have repeatedly raised questions about the visa regime with those countries with which we have open gates. Of course, the European Union there tells us that this issue will be addressed in autumn-winter, but there are a lot of countries that we give visa-free treatment, and in our side this question is not being raised, discussed and so on. I think that in this part we as a state and our legislature are not paying enough attention to protect the rights of our citizens. So I would go to the Ministry of Justice as a whole, and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and to the committee that this work needs to be revived, and that this work needs to be stepped up in order to really worry about our citizens. And this agreement, even though it has such little statistics, has to be ratified, it's going to pose for the future as a matter that's already settled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u74	Taras Cranville. Microphone, please turn it on. It's postfractional. And then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u75	National MP Taras Czarnovil, MP “Reforms for the Future”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I would also like to ask you to support the ratification of this agreement in view of the fact that, first, it really creates conditions for a more complete fulfillment of the human rights background, the rights of Ukrainian citizens who may be in a very bad situation abroad, especially in countries where, we know, the penitentiary system is, in fact, in a rather terrible state. And as for the very narrow amount of the need for this law, I'd like to make a warning here. We know that Brazil is increasing its tourist potential, which will also be there, a series of powerful sports: both the Olympic Games and the World Championship, a large number of Ukrainian citizens will be going to this country, and there may be some major misunderstandings during mass action, perhaps even some petty hooligan action by our citizens, and we can imagine what their condition will be when they find themselves in those prisons. Today, there are two people whom we must protect, even if they are one person, we must make the right decisions to do so. There may be a significant increase in the number of people involved. Therefore, it is obvious that we should vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. But I would like to pay attention here to the Ministry of Justice, and we need to produce a very clear mechanism and make it public, so that our citizens know about it, and so that they know about it the contractual sides, that people who will be transferred to Ukraine for punishment here, really, for the crime committed will be taking place. Or if our court finds that they are not guilty or their fault is not fully proven, or the penalty measure is defined as excessive, then in such a case that the review takes place in very clear functions, clear rules on our judicial system, so that it is not possible to make this a culinary decision so that it is not to release these people from custody, with maintenance, in a corrupt way. These are the steps we need to take in the future, although they are still partially settled today. As for the Ratification Act itself, I ask everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u77	“BUT – “Fathership”, Kirovograd, Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, although today’s order is like an empty space that is being pursued, there are some questions that attract both social attention and this and including. I'd like to say something with this kind of information. Of course, it is a pleasure that only two Ukrainians were taken as far as Brazil, and two of our thieves were caught there and so forth. That's just two. But I think we really need to vote for this document even though Brazil is a very distant country from us, but I would like to remind you that there is a huge Ukrainian segment in Brazil. Yuri Szczerbak and Yuri Kostenko, who isn't listening to me right now, we used to go to Parana State -- this is an amazing state where, by the end of the 19th century, we went to the Ukraine of the same Stephenian set, and they kept their Ukrainian schools in the town of Pridandopolos, they kept their Ukrainian language under the windows of almost every sunflower. Think about it, it's been almost a century and a half since then. And Yuri Kostenko will confirm that when we came to this state of Parana, a huge negro orchestra played "Not yet dead Ukraine." It's on this paranian field. Because of this again, this is a colossal example of those Ukrainians who moved there to preserve their identity. Today, we have a different language here on our home land. Because of this, I am convinced that we need to vote in order to have normal civil relations and in this regard with Brazil, which. By the way, then, Yuri, you remember, she was then, Brazil, in terrible stagnation, today's Brazilian economy on such a good rise, that is, we need to turn our heads and learn a lot from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. [[Registration number 0171]] Please vote. [[11:32:20]] For 268. The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Measures against Trafficking in Persons. Reporter – Deputy Justice Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna and Co-Rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u79	Thank you very much. Dear National MPs, having listened to the wish to ratify and accede to those documents that protect the maximum number of people, we propose to support the ratification of the European Council Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings. I have to say that this Convention is one of the comprehensive instruments that just sets international standards for the cooperation of all the member states of the Council of Europe in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The purpose of this convention is to protect victims of trafficking in human beings, to prevent trafficking in human beings as such, to ensure effective criminal persecution of persons who engage in or engage in the exploitation of victims of such crimes. The ratification of this convention will enable Ukraine, along with other states that have acceded to this convention, to introduce modern international legal standards in the area of combating trafficking in human beings, which will further enhance the status of the transit State through which living goods are supplied. Please support the ratification of this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u80	Thank you, Valery Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, there are questions before. Please sign in. Sergey Shevchuk, please. Others, please sign up. I already announced: Sergey Shevchuk. Then there's Yuri Carmazin as the nominee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Dear Valery Volodymyrical, please tell me. Under the Law on Rules – and you know this very well as an experienced lawyer – if any treaty or convention is ratified, it is absolutely necessary to submit draft laws of Ukraine arising out of this convention, in this case, laws that make it impossible to trade in human beings on the part of Ukraine as supplier countries. I have a question: why didn't you and Minust make such proposals to the President as you did today to ratify the goal convention? Do you think that our Ukrainian legislation in this regard is so perfect that it is Europe that joins us and we do not have to adapt our legislation to European standards?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u82	Thank you for asking, Sergey Volodymyrovich. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the next thing in the day is a draft law that is actually in place for this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u83	Yes. Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Valery Volodymyrical, I will certainly vote for this ratification. I just want to ask you two things. First. Why have we not ratified this convention since 2005 – since we signed on 17 November 2005 – because this was absolutely necessary? During this time, several governments have changed, and the presidents have changed, but this is certainly not in favor of Ukraine. And the second question is, how do you think you're going to implement those observations by the scientific and expert management of the head, which gave, in particular, by attracting legal persons for the activities envisaged by this convention, well, and for. by other parameters, by which were the observations made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u85	Thank you very much, Yuri Anatolyovich. I can say, really, this convention was only signed in 2005, and I regret that we didn't fully join in, that we didn't ratify this convention before. But I have to say that today this is really a very relevant question, and we've just figured it out, so we're taking it to ratification. This issue is relevant in connection with our efforts to enter into a dialogue on the visa-free regime with the European Union. Without that question, the dialogue would be simply wrong. With regard to the question of the liability of legal persons, criminal liability, in particular legal persons, I must say that, today, in a bill drafted by the Minust for the purpose of implementing the convention, it is proposed that the responsibility of carriers of legal persons from non-execution be established, or that the obligation to verify improperly before the international passenger transport of documents allowing entry into the territory of another State should be exercised. Therefore, some questions of legal responsibility are already provided for in the bill, which will be considered next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u86	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u87	Dear Valery Volodymyrable. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. I have two questions for you. Please tell me if you have any information about where Ukraine needs to intervene immediately on the side of the state where our citizens are, so to speak, in captivity, or sold, directly, and are in labor. or sexual slavery from countries such as the Middle East or Europe or other countries? Where is the statistics that she is impressive? Because from the media, it is clear that more than a hundred thousand of our women are today, in what is called sexual slavery, which can be compared to trade. Trafficking in human beings. And what in this regard do we need, as a legislative body, in your opinion, or a government to do immediately?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u88	Thank you so much for asking. Regarding statistics, unfortunately, I don't have statistics. If necessary, we are ready to provide such statistics because it is not a matter of the Ministry of Justice, but if necessary, the government will provide such information. With regard to what needs to be done in law, we believe that at least 90 percent of the problems that arise today will be solved in connection with the adoption, at least in the first reading of that bill, which is implemented and which goes ahead in the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u89	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u90	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has discussed carefully the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Measures to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings, and recommends it before the adoption of the Supreme Council. The implementation of the law will improve mechanisms to protect the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings, prevent trafficking in human beings, and ensure more effective criminal persecution of persons involved in trafficking in all its forms. According to the Ministry of Justice, there will be no negative effects on the budget. The European Integration Committee supports ratification, and the National Security Committee also supports ratification. And in the case of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, it insists on developing a whole series of implementing bills, which will probably take a lot of time. Please support the committee's recommendation decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u91	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovitch, sit down, please. I don't see any questions. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we will make decisions? Well, please sign up for the discussion. Please find out who the factions will be. Gregory Smythuch, followed by George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. I took that word because I believe that Ukraine is on the verge of a gap that makes it impossible to go any further in adopting one or the other measures to make it impossible for us to be in a terrible state that is today in relation to the citizens of Ukraine, especially with regard to our women. You know, from the media, unfortunately, we don't have statistics. And I would count that in this kind of information, the Ministry of Internal Affairs or other bodies, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should provide, and how many facts are reflected today, or at least there are no accounts of how many of our people are sold or sold in one country or another. And you know, we have two problems: this is about sexual slavery, where women are in labor, where our citizens are in one country or another, and then they have to take documents, and then they have to work their jobs to earn the opportunity to return to their Fatherland. And unfortunately, in my opinion, this amazing statistics that are today, and that's true, unfortunately, of European countries, because in Europe, what we're saying is that these are civilized and democratic countries, our statistics speak either of the media, or the journalistic investigations say that these cases are very and very many. It's not units, it's not hundreds, it's hundreds of thousands. And that's why the state can't delay. I'm sorry, there's no information to see today. Or do you know an example of a person in our country who is a member of a European country who is in labor or sexual slavery. I don't know that, even from the media, including electronics. So I would count today. To draw the attention of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and certainly to the fact that the Ministry of Justice, in the part where the State and the authorities on which its obligations have been fulfilled, are not working enough to protect and defend the rights of citizens. And I don't think there's enough going on that would make it impossible for our citizens to become our citizens for some reason or another, in labor or sexual slavery. I certainly support this step with regard to the ratification of this agreement. But at the same time, I point out that the country should also require countries that sign with us to comply with legislation, accordingly, their bodies should help our country to track those trends, so to speak, to raise them from the shadows and to help our citizens to be guaranteed rights and freedoms in this part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the matter of the Deputy Minister, I asked why, since 2005, when we ratified this convention, Ukraine has signed it on behalf of Ukraine, we have not ratified it, and why have we not implemented everything it says? Because this is an extremely important convention for the state, and it was long overdue to be ratified, and we had to work on it, and we had to work on a whole set of legislation. I'm told there was no one specifically responsible. Honorable and government, the whole state is responsible. Because article 16 here provides, paragraph 5, that each party shall take such measures as may be necessary to implement repatriation programmes involving national international institutions and non-governmental organizations that these programmes are aimed at avoiding re-victimization. That the 19th article stipulates that each party considers the use of such measures as may be necessary for recognition under national law, the use of services that are exploited. This is not what we see in the criminal cases under investigation about how our people were taken into slavery. Or take a look at the sanctions provided for in article 23 or article 28 for victims, witnesses, and persons who work with judicial authorities. This includes the protection of the victims and the witnesses who present the evidence and even the family members of the individuals mentioned in these paragraphs. So in all of the civilized world, this whole package of measures is being used, we don't. And now we need to make changes not only to the Criminal Code, but to the mass of legislation that comes out of this convention. This is a convention that will make money to our citizens who are protected abroad. This is a convention that will allow civilised cooperation between our law enforcement agencies. And I want to thank the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, who has noticed something from what is right, not everything, but especially that it has seen that it is necessary not only to recognize trafficking in criminal offences in relation to this convention, but also to use the services they provide to traffickers, if these people knew about the fact of human trafficking and realized that they are committing such offences. You know that this convention envisions the accelerated issuance of documents by persons who have been injured and other ways of protecting our people. So I think that as many people as 400 cards are, 400 cards have to be voted today in favour of this convention with the mandate of the government, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and our committee has every right to take steps to regulate this convention and implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u95	Thank you, Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u96	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to say that we shouldn't exaggerate the significance of the convention. If we're adopting a convention and we're not passing any implementation bills, it's just an empty sound, even on an important subject like human trafficking. Today, two conventions are in order: human trafficking, and the Cybercrime Convention. I want to give you an example of how we ratify 400 votes, Mr. Yuri Karmazin, and we think we did everything and we didn't do anything. For when five years ago they ratified the Cybercrime Convention, they did not indicate what authority. And for five years we did little. Today, when we talk about the important topic of “trafficking in people”, I asked the representative of Minsk, and where are the legislative initiatives that emerge from this convention, the requirements for the States parties that signed this convention? What did I hear? I've heard that the next bill is this very implementing law. It's about dealing with trafficking in human beings, teenage trafficking, children, women, the weakest link, that's what carriers are showing. And that's what the next law is about. Yes, the distinguished representatives of Minsk, do you not understand how complex, multifaceted this subject is, not just about crossing the border, but about companies that promise employment and deliberately mislead our citizens, especially young ones. These are tourist companies that are not responsible today and, by the way, a few bills that we are considering today so that these firms are not yet licensed. It is those who recruit, not just individuals, but organizations who recruit, knowing that they are interested, low-income citizens. Most likely, these victims are waiting. Where is the national, social, legal protection of these citizens? Why didn't Minust come up with these bills today and basically let the President down, because it's a hasty project, it's a hasty ratification, because we're not ready to do it, and we're going to be doing it again for five years? Why? Because it's an extremely profitable business, a business that comes in third place after drugs and weapons. There's probably just a fear of touching this business. And unfortunately, today's functioning authorities are simply showing this fear in today's world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u97	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Who else insists on the performance? None. I propose that the Committee approves the draft Ukrainian Law as the Ratification Act of the Council of Europe Convention on Measures to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings. Registration number 0176. Please vote. [[11:50:28]] For 312 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the liability of carriers carrying out international passenger transport. This is, by the way, the development of a convention that we just approved. Registration number 7010. I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please vote on this proposal. Roman Mikolaiovich, vote. [[11:51:07]] For 236 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Vice-Minister of Justice Lutkovska Valery Volodymyrna and co-rapporteur, the head of the Committee of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u98	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing a project that we think will at least allow us to make more effective use of the opportunities offered by the convention that was voted a few minutes ago for implementation in Ukraine. In particular, it is about a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility of carriers carrying out international passenger transport. We believe that we will solve most of the problems that exist with trafficking in human beings in the event that we put in place a procedure: first, border checks when crossing the state border not only with the passport of a Ukrainian citizen, but also with documents that allow for the right of entry into the territory of another state. In addition, the same obligation rests with the carrier, the carrier carrying out international transports. To date, this responsibility under the law is established only for air carriers. Before allowing the person to board the plane, they should check not only the ticket but also check the right to enter the territory of the State to which the plane is headed. Accordingly, this is the responsibility that we propose to other carriers — car carriers, railway carriers, well, and air carriers as such. Therefore, we ask that this bill be supported because it will allow a number of problems to be solved in connection with human trafficking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u99	Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u100	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed a draft of the Ukrainian Law to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility of carriers carrying out international passenger transport. This is an implementing law. And the committee at the deputy minister's side, after discussing it, had sufficient grounds for recommending the Supreme Council to ratify this law. At the same time, it should be noted that this is just one of the implementing laws. A number of others will be needed. And with regard to the impact on government budget spending, there are no negative effects. A number of committees supported the ratification. The main scientific and expert office considers it possible to adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the committee's decision in foreign matters and vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! If anyone insists on talking, please sign in. Please give me the names of the national deputies on the information board. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I support the adoption of this law as a basis and at the same time take advantage of the possibility of seeing this problem as well as international transport. And part of what you remember is my 2232 bill from 6.04. In 2009, he has been in the Supreme Council for two years and, unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, is still not a second reader. Because he was sent to the second reading committee. And this law says that the law on amending existing legislation in terms of regulating issues, migration issues. I would like to see this law put in place, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Because we are talking about passenger transport or the responsibility of carriers for international transport in Ukraine or Ukraine, and this is about the illegal residence of citizens of other states who are illegally in Ukraine or who are returning through Ukraine. This suggests that it gives additional questions to law enforcement authorities in view of the fact that we do not have sufficient control over the number of citizens who are in Ukraine, but only the Chinese, according to some statistics, we have about 300,000 illegal in Ukraine. And that's the threat itself. How does this threat to Ukraine penetrate? Of course, with those carriers carrying out international transports. And I would like to see the increased responsibility not only in part of what they're transporting illegally carried by these companies, but also by the authorities of others who control the transportation in part of the border crossing being carried out. And my law was aimed at strengthening these norms and protecting law enforcement agencies, such as border services and others, giving more rights. And unfortunately, somehow this law has long been on the second reading, two years on the committee, and such a law as this, we're looking at, it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u104	Submitted and immediately considered. That's why I don't understand the logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, since the discussion is over, there are no more speakers who are more willing to speak, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the responsibility of carriers carrying out international passenger transport]] [[Registration number 7010]] Please vote. [[11:57:42]] For 288 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask, Valery Volodymyrna, now you're going to say, maybe we'll finally accept it. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will not ask you to accept this final. I'd like to take a moment to listen to what's written on page two in the comments of the science-expert administration, which suggests, in accordance with article 20, that we criminalize certain actions that are now envisaged here, and that we anticipate changes in liability and when a crime committed by a criminal organization is committed in article 67 of the Criminal Code. Because if we accept you now, then we will not be able to add these articles under our Rules, and now it would be appropriate for us to vote in favour of this as a concept that we agree on, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and then, so to speak, would open the way for us to adopt the second reading of this law at a completely different level. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for being able to make your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u107	Valeria Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In this case, I will not ask that this project be adopted as a whole as a law, in view of what really needs to be worked out. There are some observations from the science department. And this bill, I hope, will be worked on by the committee. As far as criminalizing certain activities is concerned, in any case, Yuri Anatolyevich, the government will not stop working with this convention. And in any case, the necessary bills will be introduced. In this regard, I would like to support in the first reading only what the President has put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, therefore, the commission of the committee to work expeditiously with regard to the reasoning of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the scientific and expert administration, and to submit to the final review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We still have two documents to ratify. So we're going to look at them after the break or right now? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u110	We're continuing our work. We had to take a break. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of ratification issues. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention. [[concerning the authorised authority]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Interior Affairs of Montenegro, Sergey Petrovich. Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Oliynik Volodymyr Mikolajovic. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u111	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention, prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is proposed. The need for amendments to the Ukrainian Law is due to Ukraine’s failure to comply with its obligations under article 35 of the Convention on Cybercrime and its failure to define an authorized body. In accordance with the above article of the Convention, each contracting State appoints a contact authority throughout the week to provide immediate assistance for the investigation or prosecution of criminal offences involving computer systems and data or for the purpose of collecting evidence in electronic form relating to criminal offences. Considering that the vast number of crimes related to computer systems are investigated and disclosed by internal affairs authorities, the draft law proposes that the competent authority determine the Ministry of Internal Affairs. A 24-hour cybercrime contact point will be created on the basis of the Ministry within its current size. The draft of the Act was agreed without notice by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ukrainian Security Service. The legal expertise of the draft law was carried out by the Department of International Legal Cooperation. The implementation of the act will not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine and will ensure the fulfilment of commitments made by Ukraine after the ratification of the convention. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the question is to the First Deputy Minister? Please sign up for the question. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergei Shevchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u113	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Your Honor, well, you shouldn't convince the deputies of the importance of joining this convention. That's what everybody knows, because cybercrime is the crime of today and the future. But I have two questions. First. How Ready Are Your Frames? You take on, on your shoulders, an enormous responsibility and mission when an authorized authority is defined by the state as an IMF. Do you have a frame, or do you have a unit, or do you have experts who can at least theoretically compete with those modern hackers and their associations that carry out thousands of attacks a month on different databases? And the second. You said he didn't need any financial expenses. But we're here to give you something! You're just fighting this evil, not like the last four years when nothing was done in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. Well, frankly, the footage needs further training. Today, a decree signed by the minister: From the second semester of this school year, the University of Internal Affairs has introduced a course in cybercrime. This year, three months ago, a unit was created to combat cybercrime, where experts from the Department of State Crime Control, from the Department of Trade, entered. Combating human trafficking, other experts in this direction. And what I'm saying is that there's no need for extra budget funding, I mean that it doesn't need any extra funding for this point. It's almost made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u115	Yes, Volodymyr Romanovich Moysik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u116	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine! ” Please pass the word to my colleague, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u117	Who? Who? Ah, Vladimir Bondarenko. Please, the microphone. Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u118	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Mr. Deputy Minister, we all know that cybercrime, it's developed around the world, it's usually about interfering with the electronic money system, it's about obtaining illegal confidential information, it's about many other ways, including interference with people's personal lives. I wonder if any measures are being taken in Ukraine to combat crime in this area, which is being organised by the law enforcement services themselves, when without appropriate sanctions, particularly the Ukrainian Security Service, other bodies are interfering with the activities of sites that today provide free circulation of information, communication between citizens, which is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution. We sometimes look at some of the sharp materials that are related to Mikola Janovića Azarova, for example, were there for a period and a half on the site and then disappeared.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u119	Yes, please, Sergey Petrovich, you have something to do with this or not, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u120	Well, I repeat, the bill was designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers on February 22. First of all, this involved possible ways to improve the mechanism for combating crimes against sexual freedom and the sexual integrity of minors, particularly those committed through the Internet. What you're asking is if in the view of the coworkers who are going to fight. Cybercrime will receive information about violations of human rights and freedoms and will be properly documented and transmitted to authorized authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u121	Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u122	Pavlov Žebrovsky, NU-NS faction, political party “Ukrainian Platform”. Dear Sergey Petrovich, I have a question for you as follows: will this expansion of the units with the formation of such a unit need not be required? And secondly, isn't it time today to review the functions, the tasks of the police -- once and for all, at that wage that today gets so huge. Excuse me, who controls, who feeds on it, and if there are serious specs working on cybercrime, won't they feed on all this? Is the Ministry ready to review its tasks and funding today? Because if you take even that Georgia, 70 percent dismissed the police, raised the police's salary today above Georgia's average, and actually today there's a responsibility, and there's actually no food for what they're protecting. Are you going to the top of the Ministry, in fact, to reform the militia unit?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. Well, in your question, you've already answered a number of questions. I fully agree with you, and from the Institute, we may have taught and remembered that “to think in Russian, to think better, to think better, to improve living conditions, not to think the same in cabins and palaces. ” So, of course, that's what we're working on, and in the media, in mass media, you've read that today there's going to be some changes in the organ structure of both the Ministry and in the field services with a view to improving the work, the quality of the police. And what's relative to the negative that, unfortunately, is today, and there are militias that are corrupt is the service of internal security that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u124	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u125	He's working with the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, and so far, the self-cleaning process is under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u126	Yes, thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Oilworks Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Please take the decision of the Committee on Legislative Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u127	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, great colleagues! A bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention has been considered by the Committee on Law Enforcement. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Ratification of the Convention meet the principles of information security for Ukraine. Moreover, the adoption of the law will have a positive impact on the state of vital interests, namely: it will contribute to the formation of state policy in the area of information security in Ukraine, the further integration of Ukraine into the world information space, and the formation of a positive image of the State. It should also be noted that the provisions of the draft law on the definition of Ukraine's Ministry of Justice do not conflict with the rules of current legislation of Ukraine, in particular article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which deals with the investigation of criminal offences in the field of the use of electronic computing machines, systems and computer networks and electricity networks, are linked to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. [[computers]] In addition, the U.S.S.S. system already has a special unit for the detection and prevention of high-tech crime. In view of this, the implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State Budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the following considerations and proposals. The Committee thus recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in support of the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, that the results of the plenary session be adopted in the first reading by the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention on the Basis. [[concerning the authorised authority]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this matter. Please, Sergey Shevchuk. There's a need, I see. Then Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u129	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your word. I heard a note of disappointment about why we're stalling. And the thing is, we're looking at any convention in a hurry, we think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the President's Office, any president, is doing its job perfectly, but it's not. And it is by this convention that we can show how the authorities of Ukraine, including the parliament, acted carelessly. We ratified this convention about four, it seems, years ago, but first, we didn't specify what authority in our country is responsible for the fight against cybercrime. So we ratified the blank paper and we're proud that we did it. Today we determine that it is the IMF, as they say, “God give our calf the wolf to eat.” So far, I have the impression that there are enough qualifications there to be painted in contrast to other special organs. But if there is a wish and they are the initiators of this bill, let them work, our business is only to ask. But the second question. Ukraine did not fully join the convention. Ukraine respected that two positions regarding child pornography and child prostitution were not relevant to us, which was four years ago. And today, when the IMF is introducing a draft law, it's like it forgets about the deletions that Ukraine said were not relevant to them. In addition, there are two exceptions to the convention that Ukraine has rejected. It's about income access, it's about computer programs, it's about some other things that can certainly be used to fight this new evil that's in cybercrime. And you don't have to say that this is some secondary topic -- this is the subject of today and tomorrow. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you probably know that there are a lot of businessmen in Parliament today who may have made their first capital on the thimbles, there, for privatization, on the raid. In the following calls, a large group of cybercriminal businessmen will be sitting in this room, because this is the easiest, most effective, most intelligent way to make a lot of money and get into Parliament. And I'm not exaggerating that. A bunch of pirates, I mean electronic pirates, are already represented in Scandinavian countries and in the European Parliament. So this problem needs to be given great attention. It takes serious consideration of the profile committees to help our militia, because, well, people treat militia, you know, traditional, as a police officer with a scepter to a car: "Sergeant Petrenko, three children." And right, our colleague said, "He who works is fed." And here we need to take steps to ensure that our citizens are not affected by the first victims of cybercrime.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u130	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u131	It is certainly good that we make and correct what we have not done in the best way possible. And this convention was going to be ratified, and I think that another body, which is not going to be able to figure out how people are going to be in charge of that direction today. However, there is a huge problem today with what kind of police is, what is its essence? Does it perform the functions assigned to it? As much as they say, don't draw your grandmother, she won't be a girl. No matter how much we talk today about the fact that the police aren't like this, it doesn't matter if we don't make reforms in the militia sphere, nothing is going to change. Security, the protection of a citizen will be a key issue for the police, but to what extent it will be implemented. Today, of course, we need to be criticized, and we need to be self - cleansed. But friends, if the salary of a militiaman who can't feed his family and he has a gun, or he has a pay-per-view stick that he can earn one job for one day, it's clear that in this part of the defense, Ukraine won't have one. That's why I came to this rostrum on the matter of addressing the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In this system where you have one, you cannot change your function. You can't really do the Ministry of Internal Affairs, you need major reforms, and these reforms need to be in state cuts, you need to define functions, you need to define the local police and the criminal police, you need to get rid of the U.I.A. as an organ that doesn't investigate criminal matters, it's dealing with political persecution. To date, the police need substantial reforms. In the state where you are, clean yourself up, inner security, not internal security, you will not get the results that society demands of you today. That's why I went to this rostrum to go to the Deputy Minister, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs without reform prepared, if you went to these posts, you had to know what you wanted from this service and what it should be like, what the function of this service should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please note, I will put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention. [[concerning the authorised authority]] Registration number 0177. Please vote. [[12:48:37]] For 284 Decision taken. Please, the microphone of Cherny Sergey Petrovich. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u133	Thank you. The main scientific and expert body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is generally in favour of the bill, has proposed a change in the drafting of the bill. With regard to article 35, paragraph 1, in Ukraine, the authority to establish and operate a 24-hour contact network to provide immediate assistance in the investigation of computer - and data - related crime is the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The proposed edition is not significantly different from the IMF project, it is hardly different. So you can base an editorial that is proposed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u134	I'm, uh, thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we now need to make a decision: either in the editorial form proposed by the scientific and expert management, or in the two readings, that's the first. And the second. I am paying attention to you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, because it has happened that I have long understood the danger of this crime and have asked the question of it three years ago and two years ago, and thank you for having created a special unit this year, such proposals I have made to several prime ministers in this country and to the President, but we need to go back to what the national deputy Shevchuk was talking about today. Absolutely right, because we made a warning when we passed the Law on the Ratification of the Convention to Articles 6, 9, 24, and 27, 35 we are now correcting. And these articles will be entrusted to the relevant committees, developed, and seen if they can be taken into account at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, generalizing the proposals that have just been made, I propose the next algorithm for action. Since the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not deny that we have adopted the draft law that we have adopted as a basis for the formulation contained in the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. With regard to the proposal from national deputies Sergio Shevchuk and Yuri Karmazin, the secretariat has been instructed to prepare a commission for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine so that they can make appropriate legislative proposals, taking into account new realities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u137	Article 16 will be broken if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u138	Not now, we're not. In order for them to make appropriate suggestions, we have considered them further. Now, taking into account the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, put to the vote the adoption of the draft law as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? I am voting on this proposal for the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention as a law that takes into account the proposal of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please vote. [[12:52:29]] For 249 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. And the Secretariat please prepare the appropriate letters. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Northern Environmental Finance Corporation. [[Registration number 0178]] Reporter: Head of the National Energy Agency Pashkevich Mikola Alexandrovich. Correspondent Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Kojar Leonid Alexanderovich. Please, briefly and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u139	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Northern Environmental Finance Corporation. [[NEPHNO]] The Northern Environmental Finance Corporation is an international financial organization established in 1990 in accordance with the Agreement between the Governments of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden for the purpose of investing in environmental protection in Eastern Europe, including Ukraine. [[governments of the northern countries]] According to the rules of the International Financial Organizations, NEFCO provides credit to small and medium-sized enterprises that often lack the capacity and capacity to obtain funding from national financial institutions as well as other large international financial institutions, as they need small amounts of funding. NEFTA intends to fill this niche and to provide premium funding for priority environmental projects ranging from 50,000 euros to 3 million euros for a project with affordable interest rates of between 3, and 6 percent annually. There is still only one organization in this sector with a similar concept in the world. The adoption of Ukraine’s law and its subsequent implementation do not require funding from the State or local budgets. The adoption of Ukrainian law will allow the provision and establishment of a legal field for the activities of the North Environmental Finance Corporation in Ukraine. The implementation of the relevant agreement in Ukraine will allow the use of cheap credit resources in the area of housing and utilities in Ukraine to reduce fuel and energy consumption, increase efficiency in fuel and energy consumption, reduce energy efficiency in gross domestic product, accelerate structural reconstruction of Ukraine's economy, minimize Ukraine's dependence on imported energy, increase the competitiveness of domestic production in world markets, reduce technological pressures on the environment, speed up the crisis by reducing dependence on imported energy. In addition, NEFCO can act as a catalyst for greater investment in Ukraine and as a signal for improving the investment climate for other investors. As mentioned by the Swedish diplomats, the lack of ratification of the NEFCO agreement has an impact on the start of the Swedish initiative during the chairmanship of the European Union of the Partnership for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency of Eastern Europe. This co-operation project is aimed at providing funding for large investments, with donors contributing around 90 million euros over the period 2010-2014. Please support the bill on the ratification of the framework agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Northern Environmental Finance Corporation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u140	Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, there is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u141	Dear Mikola Alexandrovich, I have read the treaty carefully, and please explain to me what is the advantage of this agreement for the government. For those who haven't read it, and unfortunately, I don't think most people have read it, I will read it. Article 2 that NEFCO can decide whether or not to provide funds to support the project and under what conditions on the basis of its evaluation. So we don't put them in conditions. But in article 5, they provide us with the conditions that all what they do in Ukraine will be done on a tax basis. They'll be tax-free, they'll be contributing to customs and so on and so forth. So Ukraine essentially takes guarantees under the state budget, and an organization that's not international, by the way, and a self-sustaining organization promises, I want ladies, and under what conditions, I don't want to give. Please tell me where the benefits of Ukraine are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u142	Well, first of all, there's no guarantee on the part of the government that their agreements are going to be. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the issue of credits on tax terms. Every investment corporation and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the World Bank, they put their credit conditions in place. And it's also going to be about cooperation in energy efficiency projects and the environment with NEFCO, which is what work projects are all about. We've calculated that in carrying out energy-efficient projects in Ukraine, in financing, for example, 350 thousand euros of taxes that are being taxed by NEFCO are being taxed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u143	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u144	NEFCO’s income tax would be 3,000 euros. And the cost savings for the implementation of the project are about 87,000 euros. So we consider it appropriate and effective to have such investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u145	Alla Alexandrovska, then Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u146	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Nikolai Alexandrovich, I also read the proposed agreement, and I raised such questions. These are the ones who will receive these loans and, by the way, grants. There are not only loans, there may be grants, i.e. beneficiaries, as it says. What guarantees will they be required to return the money? That's Adam Ivanovich's right concern. We understand that government guarantees do not work here, so the budget here, so to speak, does not work either. What about being a guarantor? That's the first one. And the second question. The same article, quoted by Adam Ivanovich, states that this organization can carry out the activities provided for in the statute of the organization in Ukraine. In particular, loans, i.e. loans or grants, are provided for as an activity. And we don't know the statute. What else is the organization going to do in Ukraine? The two issues are the guarantor of the return and the activities that the organization is going to undertake.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u147	Because NEFCO is one of the most friendly and experienced in the market for energy - efficient technologies and clean environment for 20 years, they have tools that are not. do not take into account the budgets of the countries where they work. This. And considering what creation is. It was adopted by the governments of the northern countries, which formed the NMF Development Fund and authorized NEFCO to do this work in the territory. East. I don't want to. So that we can better co-finance environmental rehabilitation projects and energy-efficient projects. These are the tools of NEFCO.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u148	Microphone. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble Mikola Alexandrovich, coming out of the text of the framework agreement, there are, indeed, some benefits that are foreseen. I wanted to ask a question through the prism of the new Tax Code. The point is that we're going to be looking at a new draft of the Tax Code, and you know that an international treaty has priority in terms of domestic legislation? Is this included in the new Tax Code project? Or would this have to be taken into account in the process of preparing for the second reading of the Tax Code if it was not taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u150	Unfortunately, I can't answer that question right now, because the Tax Code is still on. Well, they're comparable. So if any questions arise, we're going to propose changes to the framework agreement or the codex, which is now gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u151	Regarding the Tax Code. The government introduced the Tax Code. Now the multiplication process is happening, as much as we can multiply it, I mean, by the efforts of the government. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, I see many benefits of this framework agreement, especially since not only articles of the treaty need to be read but also the preamble to the treaty, of course, to read. But I have a different question. Please tell me, are there any programs that have already been developed in such areas as eco-efficiency, such as clean production and energy-saving loans? I realize that if everything in the world had been implemented, our energy dependence on the so - called Russian pipe would have been reduced by at least three times. And citizens in Europe, in civilized countries, don't know what kind of gas they're using, they don't care because there's no energy conservation, because there's absolutely no dependence and there's no independent states. And we're groaning all the time! So I'd like to talk about programs, and specifically about these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u153	NEFCO has already had experience working in Ukraine, and it has funded more than 20 privately owned projects in Ukraine that have been directed towards energy conservation. And all of these projects meet the requirements of reducing dependence on imported energy and are now running programs and energy efficiency and environmental protection projects in the cities of Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv, Raven, Odessa, Sumi, Kamyanec-Podilski and work with others. This is NEFCO actively cooperates with NAER. We are also working together to finance projects at the level of our consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u154	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Leonid Alexandrovich Kojara, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u155	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Northern Environmental Finance Corporation and recommended it for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the draft Law on Ratification was also considered by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and also supported the ratification of the agreement. The main scientific and expert management generally supports legislative initiatives for the ratification of the framework agreement, since the ratification of this agreement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine will enable Ukraine to engage additional credit resources on favourable terms. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I ask for the support of the committee’s decision. I would also like to add a few words, since such rather sharp questions were raised. Well, first of all, what's happening with the terms of the loan that NEFCO does. Well, first of all, Ukraine. We don't have to take these loans. And if they do, it's clear that, like other international financial institutions, these loans only come under Ukrainian government guarantees. It should be noted that NEFCO is not a commercial structure, in terms of direct words, it is an interstate structure, and in this way it is unique, as is the “Nordic Bank”. And this structure is a Nordic structure that unites five Nordic nations. And I think that a lot of us, honourable national MPs, we know that it's exactly the state of environmental protection and the state of energy conservation technology that is in Scandinavia that is the largest. And I think, with this corporation coming in, Ukraine will be able, well, first of all, to engage the necessary financial resources, and, on the other hand, to engage the necessary technologies, which are the most predictable technologies in the world today. So on behalf of the committee and on behalf of myself, I propose to support the government and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please, Yuri Carmazin, then Sergey Shevchuk, then Taras Crnowil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this agreement, which was concluded at the end of last year, September 17, 2009 in Donetsk, is badly needed by Ukraine. And that's what I'm drawing your attention to, the preamble to this agreement. The preamble says that NEFCO is an international financial organization that is formed between the governments of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. And you know that these are countries where, first of all, corruption is practically minimized, second of all, where environmental security is above all and where human rights are at an extremely serious high level. Because of this, given that this third sheet is started, that funding can amount to 10-15 million euros a year, and given that these may be advanced technologies, I come from what we can reduce on the basis that we will have such a deal, reduce dependence on external energy sources, from the so-called gas needle, we can borrow cheap loans just in the area of housing and utilities, where we keep spending at 4, 5 times higher than in civilized countries. That's impossible. We need to reduce and minimize the dependence of the economy on imports, increase the competitiveness of our products in world markets, especially chemistry, and not shout that prices have risen and we can't maintain our chemical factories right now. We can hold it. All we have to do is take our price and don't pay for debts that we didn't do. This is what I mean, including the debts of “Rosukreenergo”. Because when they scream today, oh, Firthash, Firthash, a rich man, grabs another factory. The colossus on the clay legs is what it is. And then life will prove that it is. You'll find out. If they cannot finance some small BK “Kyiv” sports team at the right level, they may not be able to finance the chemical sector as well. But God is with them, with those oligarchs. I'm talking about that kind of law we need. And the risks that are particular to your question, Adam Ivanovich, about what we're going to face with tax losses -- we're not going to take anything at all. Please see that we are spending much more on the official income of our people in Cyprus today. And he offered to include in the agenda the reservation of that still-Soviet agreement. You don't want to bet, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u158	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u159	Today, the “BUT – Fatherland” faction addressed the issue of whether or not to support this government bill. Indeed, there are certain risks, about the economic risks said by Vice-Speaker Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, there are certain political risks. But what seems to us to be the greatest risk of implementation when this agreement is ratified is exactly how the Ukrainian side will act. It is known that the Northern Environmental Financial Corporation, like any other international structure represented by the Nordic countries, clearly adheres to the principles of transparency, transparency and even the fight against innuendo, not that of corruption, but that of criminality. And if this happens on the Ukrainian side, no framework agreement will save us from the very introduction of modern energy-saving technologies and so on. Therefore, after weighing all the positive and negative points, the faction of the "Batychshina of Yulia – Fatherhood" has decided to support this government bill, since it refers, firstly, to the framework agreement. And that means that any of the following actions are going to be brought to Parliament equally, and we're going to be taking certain legislative acts about, let's say, the benefits of some moment or tax or other. But most importantly, we think that such a framework agreement will enable us to accelerate the development of alternative renewables for our nation's energy supply, thereby reducing dependence on energy on one side. Therefore, "The Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland Block" will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u160	Taras Cranville, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u161	Taras Crnowil, MP “Reforms for the Future”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, first of all, very briefly, I would like to say that working on this project, the draft Law on Ratification, is an example of how we can and can work in Parliament. Unfortunately, both governments had been delayed for more than a year, in fact a year, and it was reviewed, and the relationship was clarified, while it was possible to ratify this agreement in Parliament and have good, positive decisions for over a year. On August 18th, only came the document to Parliament, in a short time we were able to fully process it properly. And so grateful to the Head of the Supreme Council, only yesterday was the question raised on the Conciliation Council about the possibility of its off-set, today we have it in the hall and we are already accepting it. Similarly, a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was held in turn. But in parallel, as a committee that's always very serious about its functions, we've studied all the related documents in detail, and I can tell you that we've studied not only the agreement ourselves, but we've read it in detail and searched for all the threats and all the positives. We also studied the treaty on the creation of NEFCO, the inter-State treaty of Scandinavian and northern European countries, which does not present a threat to us, which has a very clear and well-written system, for which this environmental financial organization is created. All the anti-abuse fuses have been created. It's impossible to use any of its non-profile goals, that is, any policy, any corruption, anything else to talk about, in principle, impossible. We had the same special meeting with the ambassadors of the countries of the founders of NEFCO, as well as with the president of this international organization. The conclusion is clear: The treaty is exclusively favourable to Ukraine. As mentioned earlier, it is worth reading in addition to the articles themselves the preamble to the treaty, where it is very clear what it is made for, and all the positives are reflected there. So I'm not going to stop at this, I'm just going to say that the threats that I've mentioned in the speeches today, in fact, by this treaty and by the treaty on the creation of NEFCO, are completely annulled. First. The State of Ukraine is not a guarantor of borrowing, NEFCO itself will be in the legal process in the case of unconscionable buyers on the Ukrainian side of the manifesto to settle matters with them in court. We don't give them full immunity, as was the case with other separate financial organizations, we just predict that they can't be expelled and arrested before the court's decision. So that's the norm that our financial organizations should be dealing with. We think that we need to support this agreement, that it will enable the authorities of local self-government, and other buyers of this kind to actually create energy-saving environmental projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u162	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the bill's consideration has been completed, the committee has decided to support the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to ratify the agreement. I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law as the Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Northern Environmental Finance Corporation. [[Registration number 0178]] Please vote. [[13:17:25]] For 249 Decision taken, thank you. The factions? Please. Region Party – 165, “Block of Timoshenko” – 21, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 18, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility for individual offences in housing and utilities. [[Registration numbers 6505, 6505-1]] The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:18:16]] For 201 Decision taken. Reporters: Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Shapolenko Vitaly Georgievic and National Deputy Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic. The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative security and law enforcement activities, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u163	Honourable People's Deputies, Ukraine's draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase responsibility for individual housing offences since 9 June 2010, designed by Minjitlocommungospo to increase the responsibility of members of social relations in part of ensuring that they meet the requirements of legislation in the area of housing and utilities in view of the extraordinary events that are taking place in Ukraine. [[Registration number 6505]] In particular, recent cases of serious health damage and threats to human life have increased, and the illegal removal of lids, hatches, and grids have led to the loss of people in wells and ice cells, resulting in bodily damage. The self - repair or damage of ventilation systems and gas turbines in residential apartment buildings equipped with gas and water heating columns and gas boilers lead to the poisoning of residents of apartments with gas burning products. Preventive removal and damage to fire extinguishers, fire hydrants, and high - surface smoke systems in many living buildings have brought these systems out of working conditions, prevented timely warning of residents, and extinguished fires, and posed a potential threat, a major threat to human life and health. The damage to electricity in residential and indwelling areas is caused by numerous accidents with humans. Injury and illegal removal of elevator equipment have resulted in isolated injuries and deaths that increase the risk of living in residential homes. Exploding explosives, gas balloons, and so forth in residential buildings resulted in explosions, collapses of structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u164	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u165	The bill therefore proposes to amend the Criminal Code, which is intended to criminalize violations of legislation. In addition, make further changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. The bill was discussed by the Committee on Law Enforcement, and observations were made. At the same time, they were unprincipled, more technical. Hence, the Ministry, in view of these circumstances and the urgent need for the adoption of this law, proposes the adoption of the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u166	Thank you. Please sit down. Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, please. What's the alternative to your bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u167	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. The point is that the work on government bills in various warehouses was continuous. I took an active part in drafting this bill last year and a little earlier. All of this was then developed into a dozen different bills, and so was this one. I think our bills are very similar today. And they're similar because it's a topical problem, and it's being developed by a whole group of experts who are still working at the Ministry, and today they're passing this bill. The point is that today's housing-communal situation, a sharp increase in tariffs for services in this farm should at least guarantee the lives and health of people living in buildings that use heating, energy, and well-being facilities. Because the situation that is today and for which they try to take down double or triple the price is causing people to have an absolute negative reaction to such an increase. So I would like to make at least the order with what we have today and gradually reform this area. I don't believe that. Because the money allocated by today’s government to reform the LHC is actually reduced to zero. And nothing will be done new. But laws are obviously to be adopted. They may act at least in the future. In the first reading, if we adopt today's government bill or my bill, we can work on it in particular in a part that's not disclosed in government. This is true of the objects. In Kiev, we have cases where the environmental situation around dwellings has changed sharply in connection with the cutting down of dozens and hundreds of trees. Kharkiv's experience in the local regions suggests that you can cut out parks at all in order to run some of your business projects. So you have to use these kind of fuses. So I would like to adopt the bill that I submitted on the basis of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u168	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u169	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Reverend Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, with a difference of eight days on June 9, and then on June 17 a colleague Mr. Vladimir Bondarenko passed bills, and he did not know that they were practically the same as the content, for the purpose, by way of regulating social relations. After considering these two bills, the committee noted that their relevance was extremely high. The Deputy Minister and Deputy Bondarenko reported on this in detail and detail, but at the same time, many comments were made to these bills of a legal nature. They regulate criminal responsibility in the wrong section where these crimes are regulated, they go beyond sanctions, so to speak, correctional work and so forth. There are, so-called, legal irregularities without which the bill cannot be approved. The committee therefore recommended that both bills should be sent to the authors of the legislative initiative for further work. And after the committee's decision, a letter came from Mr. Hivrich, Minister of Housing and Utilities, anxious to approve the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to send a government bill for re-reading the first reading. So, dear fellows, you're to be determined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u170	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u171	Vladimir Yavorowski, “BUT – “Fathership”, Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, we actually have two bills. I will, for example, vote in favour of the Vladimir Bondarenko bill, which is very well aware of this problem and I think it's highly qualified. This is really important, especially important to Kiev and not just Kiev, because we know very well what is happening today literally in our eyes, changing the face of Kiev, and changing into a completely worse, incomprehensible, incomprehensible and printed face. I'm not talking about the same price today, and the same tariffs are destroying our capital. I'd like to have another minute to tell you what. Yesterday I received a very disturbing letter from the Chinese, from a huge group of people from the Association of Co-owners of the Puszkinska House, 20. You and I know how Kyiv, at least a progressive, thinking democratic Kiev, is fighting to build a new high-rise building on Bogdan Hmelnick and Pushkinska Street. You know how colossal passions were around this. At last, it seemed that the cynics had reflected this aggression, this attack on Kiev's identity, but it turned out to be very, very little. Just a few days ago, under the leadership of the deputy minister of culture and tourism of Vecerski, this resonant issue was addressed in a very limited warehouse. And they did do well again to build this house in the security zone of the National Academy Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukraine. This is unacceptable. I'm just warning those corrupts who are trying to push it today, you won't. We'll get Kiev out, we won't let you corrupt this unique place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u172	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, surely Bill 6505 should be adopted in the first reading. Of course, he needs to be worked on. I would like to continue with my colleague Vladimir Alexanderovich's opinion that the deliberate damage to residential facilities is not only possible for individuals who are either going to set fire to something or destroy it, they may also be forced to take over the electrical shield and shut down like rats. Perhaps this will also apply to those people — officials, government officials, responsible persons — who have the same bearing on taking responsibility for the damage in some way. Recently, about two years ago, the city of Zaporozhye took place. Well, precedent is interesting or unpleasant. A couple, a man and a woman who lived on the 6th floor, had nothing to be ashamed of, turned all the batteries in their apartment, the irons of the radiators, onto a metal sheet, and you can imagine the tragedy of the people from 5 to 1 floors when the JEK was trying to check out the heating system that was going on in this building on Brullova Street. So I think this bill right now is on time, that is. And this bill needs to be adopted in the first reading. At the same time, I think that the committee of our PIC in the drafting of the draft for second reading needs to clearly write out a procedure of accountability, a mechanism of accountability, a central government body that has to monitor and present for such attraction to responsibility, because otherwise it's going to be one of those bills that's just about nothing. And I think it would be appropriate for the committee to bring together the position of the bill of Vladimir Bondarenko and the government. Then it will be an active bill that will help us save and secure our housing and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u174	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Come on, let's go. First. I also want to thank the National MP Bondarenko for his initiative. I just want to say that we've all been making the same mistake for a very long time. And when such a framework little bill is introduced, such as by the government, I have a question. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a system that we have. It's full of ministries. The government is something so big. You're responsible for the whole country. I don't mean the speakers right now, I don't have any problems with you. I have problems with the government as a whole, with those people who were supposed to offer society, including the Ministry of Justice, the new Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. It's a long time ago that patched-up code, not changing it here today. And as for the person who devoted three years of her life to working on the Criminal Code, I want to say that it is absolutely right, I agree with my colleague Moses, that the committee rightly concluded that crime should not be included in that chapter. This is certainly not a crime against property, because the hatch – it can weigh little, but very, very important for the lives of people who can get a whole bus there, a person, can have one accident, another third. That is, the object of the direct attack will be public security, of course. And because of public security, it is necessary to commit crimes, in chapter IX: “Crimes against public security”. But can this be done at the first reading stage on the committee now? I think we can, even though we have a little dragon rule, how we should do it. I think we should adopt the bills in the first reading, and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u176	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u177	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, this is the case when we need to talk about the positive: increasing responsibility not only to legal persons but also to natural persons. Let's put it bluntly: Germany, which is often appealed to and said that people stand for red light and go for green light rather than vice versa, did not immediately do so. At first, there were very serious punishments. And if the general level of culture doesn't allow us to understand that the hatch is bad, if the elevator is bad, then there should be punishment. And there is absolutely nothing to be ashamed of, especially when it has serious damage to the life, security, and safety of others. But I would like to point out, really, that we should not fail to change the existing code when there are penalties for certain or other violations. We need to reconcile that. And I think it would have to be more serious from the point of view of legal technology to go to this bill, you could have it in the first reading, but you have to work on it for professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for individual offences in housing and utilities. [[Registration number 6505]] Please vote. [[13:34:40]] For 248 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski’s last name was in the process of discussion, and he has the right to a replica. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u179	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT – "Batakščina", town of Kirovograd. Indeed, my last name has been mentioned, and I have the right to a brief lineup. Well, Kuzma Prutkov once said that the sun is, he said, a schmuck, it shines on the day that you can see it without it. That's what the moon is, because it only shines in the middle of the night when it's dark. So apparently, he meant my colleague Suhi, who mentioned the shield there, and something else. I'm sure it was much more productive and interesting than today, when the President of the State came, such a great man today in Ukraine, came to sit here and be, and you're blocking his rostrum. I think it was much worse and worse -- what you did. By whom? Did you protect the rostrum from your own president today and from the national deputies? Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children. [[Registration number 6510]] There is a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:36:15.]] For-189 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Muštinin Vitaly Vadimovich. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u181	Honourable National Deputies, proposed for consideration, are the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children, designed to implement a plan of action to implement the concept of social protection for homeless citizens by 2012 approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Improvements in existing legislation are aimed at ensuring the unhindered access of homeless people to reintegration services, avoiding stereotypes in society regarding the homeless and discrimination against the population category. The proposed changes take into account the international and five - year - old’s work experience in this direction. This includes extending the scope of the law to foreigners, stateless persons legally residing in Ukraine. There have been changes to the notion of "homelessness" and "homeless person." It's suggested that the homeless consider a person who lacks any housing that is designed and suitable for living. Unlike the current editorial, a homeless person belongs to the homeless category. The reintegration system and its subjects are defined as well as reintegration services, which include medical, educational, legal, and rehabilitation services. It is possible to establish centres for the accounting of homeless citizens by civil and charitable organizations that will contribute to the development of a network of such measures. Individual population groups have been identified who may lose their housing or their right to use it and how to prevent homelessness among such risk groups. The term "predominant place of residence" has been changed to "place of residence" in order to avoid discrimination against persons who have a sign of homelessness when dealing with such issues as employment, housing, etc. [[staying]] The adoption of the bill will ensure further development of the reintegration system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u182	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u183	strengthens its work towards preventing Ukrainian homelessness and, as a result, will enable homeless citizens to realize the right guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u184	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u185	Dear voters, dear colleagues! During the years of independence, one of the acquisitions, if the word “acquisition” can be used, has resulted in thousands of homeless and homeless children in Ukraine. This poses a social threat both to society and to these people. So we have people from a high political background who write in their declaration that they don't have a house, but they take down a tent somewhere in a dam. So these people certainly need social protection and housing, or to identify them as being homeless. It is this law that foresees what a colleague from the Ministry said. First of all, it's defined as homeless and homeless. Second of all, it's the norm to admit that it's homeless, homeless, you have to show that you don't have either a pen or a permanent place to live. It's clear that the homeless guy doesn't have a license, doesn't have a place to live, and this is the norm, this position is off. The next moment is very important. There's a group of people at risk who can get into the homeless, homeless -- children who live, children who are orphans, children live with parents, but poor families, alcoholics and so on. We also prescribed in this law how this category of potential homeless or homeless persons will be protected. It is very important that we record responsibility for breaking legislation regarding the social protection of homeless and homeless people or children. So, honourable colleagues, I'll remind the opposition that this law was in the process of developing that concept that was approved by the government in 2008, when the opposition was in power. So, you see, the coalition goes consistently on social issues and lays down laws that would expand the possibilities of social protection for our citizens. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. If there are no serious comments, I think you could pass this law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u186	Please register to discuss the bill – two pros, two against. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u187	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Of course, this law must be upheld on first reading. But why the first reading? The terrible social problem raised by the representative of the Ministry and the representative of the relevant committee. However, this law does not aim to address this problem in a fundamental way. It even sounds like we're taking these homeless people into account now, and we even have to take into account the potential risk groups in which such homeless people might appear. Instead of proposing in this law a system of family support, support for children in disadvantaged families, protection of the rights of citizens who take credit for their property and lose their homes, and finding themselves on the streets, instead the State does not help these people, but begins to take account of them and engages in bureaucratic procedures in the form of social assistance. We need to look at the root of this problem. We've got people in the credit drawers, we've got people injured in investment funds, where they were trying to get an apartment. Today, a young person, leaving the institution, is neither sure nor aware, nor is there any guarantee of employment. So he has no guarantee of normal income. That's to say that we have all the college graduates who are potential, they're homeless in general. Because if a person doesn't have a job and a salary, they won't be able to get their own corner, their own housing. Today it is about increasing housing and utility tariffs. Again, we are saying that without the corresponding wage growth, all these people may be homeless. Because, by definition, if a person does not pay for utilities, he will be required to recover his income, and in the end, he will be able to take away the apartment under our civil procedural code. Therefore, issues need to be addressed in principle. And it's very bad that you don't make such proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u188	Thank you. Paul Ungurian. He gives the right to speak to Andrew Pavlovsky. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u189	Thank you. Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the "Baptistress of the Fatherhood" "Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko". Respectful fellow countrymen, despite the name, do not promote social protection for homeless citizens and homeless children. Notice that our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has given more than a dozen serious observations to this law, indicating its underwork and not entirely the profession of the one who prepared it. In particular, children who were both homeless and homeless were mixed up, although the issues of homeless children were already regulated by the laws in force. Such an arrangement is proposed for the registration of homeless persons, allowing them to create accounting centers and private organizations. Why is this being done? Perhaps right before the election, we need to register these homeless people so that they can vote for the Party of the Regions for their bread at the places of registration. Risk groups include those who may become scum, and the government of Azarova takes people living in hostels to rented homes with relatives. That's an interesting approach. And another serious observation. The government bill narrows down the possibility of homeless people living in social hotels because homeless people are required to have a legal source of income needed for renting or buying housing. And that requires that the bogeys have these incomes. And this is because a large part of the population in Ukraine and on average wages, they can't stop renting, and they can't even buy housing anymore. In their attack today, the social rights of citizens have reached the disadvantaged, the homeless, and the homeless. Therefore, the faction “Brother’s Motherhood Block” proposes to reject the bill and send it back to the government for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, I'm addressing the officials, the best thing for you to do is to take the law back. This was best in this case. After all, you have asked some questions today about redesigning your first reading. Why? I'll take it. I'm doing a review of the actual law with what you're proposing. And once again, the purpose of every piece of legislation is not just to introduce legislation for the sake of the law, but to improve the lives of every person in this country, whether it's sheltered or homeless. And obviously for our government, for our Supreme Council, for our President, the main goal is to make these homeless as little as possible, not in terms of dying, but in terms of providing them with housing, shelter and everything else. So I'm looking at when there are these definitions, let's say in article 2 of the definition of terms, I'm looking at what that is. And then I find paragraph 12 and paragraph 12 so interesting: “Registration of the place of residence, or place of residence of the homeless person is the introduction of information to the passport document on the place of residence, or the place of residence of the person with the address of the homeless person’s establishment and the introduction of this data to the registration of the relevant authority of the special authorized central authority on registration.” The question is, Your Honor, is that we are only making laws to catch a person, grab a passport, blow that stamp there, you know, scary, which is absolutely not mandatory after decisions of the Constitutional Court, that a person can live anywhere. That's it! And that's the only reason we're doing this image? Fear God, for today is the day of the Holy Virgin! Because of this, many positions are duplicated. Scientific expertise suggests work. I also think we should send this law for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u192	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. We continue the morning session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, of course, that the bill that we are considering is flaws and fundamental flaws, and we need to work very hard on it during the first-and-second reading discussion and I think it's through a committee that is profiled and able to deal with this problem. And I'm going to propose this bill to support on the ground. But at the same time, I want to draw the attention of the Ministry, which is directly concerned with these issues, that unfortunately, such a phenomenon as the homeless or the homeless, the more it relates to children, is a phenomenon, unfortunately, of our shame, that is in our society and this phenomenon is not unique, and this is a phenomenon that captures tens or maybe thousands, tens of thousands and more of our citizens. This is especially true of children. Do you remember the history of the 20th century when this issue was raised? After the Civil War, when the homeless were many, Makarenko first offered. Do you remember Soviet times after World War II? When it came to wandering, so to speak, people were planted, adults without permanent residence, a place of residence, or a permanent place of work were put in prison. In our day, I think, given that we've entered the civilisational way of the integration moments of the world, so to speak, approach to this problem, we need to address these issues in principle. And I think that the ministry in this regard should take concrete steps, a specific program to overcome this phenomenon. Because there is an example from many countries that, so to speak, there are no homeless or homeless children at all. This should be a shame to our society and to our leadership that we have this phenomenon. That's why I'm calling on the Ministry as the Ministry of Profiles to put in a specific program to deal with this. And let's say that in a certain period of time we're going to take a short year, two, three, five, at most, overcome this phenomenon and report to our society that we're going to overcome it. Because we, the more the parliamentarians, should be ashamed that this phenomenon has acquired such terrible statistical significance. So I'm proposing that we don't erase this problem, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u194	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u195	Not to forget to accept as a basis, but to work hard, and with the Ministry, I call for a specific law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u196	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u197	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, it is clear that not everyone is meant to be millionaires or deputies or clearly MPs and millionaires. There are people who don't have a chance, unfortunately. There are people who have no chance of having their own home. And that's why they said, I don't think it's entirely fair to say that in a group of risks, as it's possible to include the residents of the hostels. And I'll answer that. All right, we've got to turn it on. Because it's clear to everyone that groupies are often sold with their residents. And after that, there's actually no way for a person to even have that kind of temporary housing. That is, the armies or armies of the future homeless can grow. Thus, it was right to include not only homeless, homeless children but also, in principle, as a group of residents at risk. The only thing I have in terms of human rights and freedoms. I don't know if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay to register people with certain diseases that are dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u198	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u199	I don't know. Maybe there's an expert on whether or not it violates these people's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children. [[Registration number 6510]] Please vote. [[13:52:16]] For 238. Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Law on the State Register of Voters. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6669]] Reporter of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule, Gorbatyuk Anatoly Aleksyyyyovich. Who from the committee will speak on this matter? Okay. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the restriction of national regulation of economic activity is then announced for consideration. [[Registration number 6696, 6696-1]] Just a minute. I, my fellow Members, beg you, who is the committee on this bill? Oh, no? Then I can go to the repairs myself. Is that okay with you? What about after lunch? It's your law, isn't it? Counsel among yourselves, fellow believers, and then we will make the only right decision. Now, one minute. Let's do it this way. I announced an extension of 15 minutes. I'm going after the repairs. If you have any comments on the Law on the State Register of Voters, then let us consider them. And I propose once again to the heads of factions, to the heads of the committees, to ensure the presence of the rapporteurs. Not on 16 stand, you don't have to. So a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters is being announced for consideration. I inform you, Your Honor, that there have been 87 amendments to this law. Most of them, i.e. the 47th, the committee counted, the 10th counted in part, the other amendments taken into account by fellow national MPs, 26 amendments not supported. So let's do the repairs. Blackwolf, 2 fixes. Don't you insist? 3rd and 4th. Don't insist. Shrimp, accounted for Blackwolf, 9th Amendment. Don't insist. What's the 7th amendment? Let's go to the 7th. The 7th amendment is the amendment of the coat of arms, Gordienka, Demčičina and Klukkowski. It's counted. Please, Sergey Gordienko, if you have this option, for the 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u201	An amendment was debated on the committee, and we insist that it be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, since there is a legal requirement of the Rules to vote to confirm Amendment No. 7, I am voting on Amendment No. 7, which is considered by the Committee, but requires confirmation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:56:45]] For-26 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 9 rejected. They don't insist on it. Amendment 10. The committee did not take a decision on this amendment. These are a few amendments, two amendments, and the Committee suggested that it be considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll read the contents of this amendment. “ Part two of article 8 of Section I of the project will be printed as follows: “The electorate’s electoral address is usually determined by registered residence at the electoral residence in accordance with the Ukrainian Freedom of Movement Act and the free choice of residence in Ukraine”. If the electorate has not applied to the relevant registering authority for another electoral address, the electoral authority may, at the request of the electorate, determine a different electoral address than that determined in accordance with part two of this article.” The committee did not come to the unanimous conclusion of whether to support or reject or propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be defined in connection with the amendment. I am voting on the proposal to support Amendment 10. [[13:58:13]] For 1 No correction supported. Okay, amendment number 11. Declined. The author does not insist. Amendment 17. Yuri Klukkowski does not insist. 16 revisions. Yuri Klukkowski. This is the point : “Part of the first article of Section 9 and of the project to be supplemented by this point: ‘ The service mark is marked in part two of Article 5 of this Law. In accordance with the Rules and with the requirement, I shall vote on the approval of Amendment 16. Please vote. [[13:59:04]] For 1 Correction not supported. Let's do some repairs. 20th. Don't insist. 21st. The author is Sergei Gordienko. He suggests that article 12 should be supplemented by part 3 of the following content: “Any voter in public control may receive information about the inclusion or non-inclusion of another elector in the register database in the scope and order established by this law.” Justification of the amendment. For the purpose of non-disclosure of confidential information, in particular the permanent inability of the electorate to move on his own and in accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal, a citizen may be approached in the interests of another person: a working group or an organization that carries out legal protection activities solely on the basis of his authorization established by law. Please, it's Sergei Gordienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, you have heard the full contents of this amendment. The committee supported her unanimously, and we're speaking or I'm addressing him and I'm asking him to support him. The correction is logical and is in the best interests of all voters today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u204	I'll bet the vote on the 21st amendment for confirmation. The committee supported the amendment and took it into account. Please vote. [[14:00:45]] For-29 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 28. Blackwolf doesn't insist. 29th. Gordien, are you insisting on her? 29th. No, he insists. 30 readjustments included. This is the amendment of Yuri Klukkowski. I'll read it, dear colleagues. “ Part one of the first article of Section I of Section I of the project is as follows: “The registering authority has access to a personal register for voters whose electoral address is within the territory to which the authority of that body is extended. The registration authority shall have access to the personal data record of the electorate who resides or resides outside the territory of Ukraine. [[Ministry of Foreign Affairs]] The registry authority shall have access to all register entries in the order set up by the registry administrator.’ The committee took this amendment into account. In view of the insistence on voting on the approval of this amendment, I put it to the vote. [[2:02:11]] For-0 Correction not supported. 31st Amendment, Gordon. Don't insist. 32nd. You don't insist on her, either, Gordien? One minute! No, it doesn't. Let's go to the repairs. Counted, counted, counted, accounted for. 41st accounted for. 43rd, Blackwolf. Don't insist, I can't see. We're going to see her now. 44 Amendment, Sergey Gordienka. Please, it's Sergei Gordienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, 44 amendments are included in paragraph 3. Partly there, that's why I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u206	So you insist now, Mikhail Vasilovich, on her vote? Let me put it to the vote so it's clean. I'll bet you a vote on the confirmation of Amendment 44. [[14:03:30]] For-0 The correction is not supported, so it is deleted. Let's go to the repairs. 46 Amendment by Yuri Klukkowski. The committee counted it. I'll read it, dear colleagues. “The part of the fourth article of section 21 shall be supplemented by a new paragraph four in the following wording: by the electoral address specified in the request, in addition to the electoral addresses defined in parts three, five of article 8 of this Act, by the number of voters without specifying their personal data entered in the Register, which have this electoral address, or by the absence of entries in the Register with such an electoral address.” The committee took this amendment into account. At the request of the MP, I'm voting on the motion to confirm Amendment 46. [[14:04:35]] For-0 Correction not counted. Let's move on. Amendment 47, again by Yuri Klukkowski, of this content: Part Three of Article 22 of one project should be supplemented by a new paragraph three in the following wording: the electorate who, during the previous month, changed the registration of the place of residence within the appropriate administrative and territorial unit, in conjunction with this paragraph 3.6. parts of the third article consider paragraphs 4-7. I am voting on the request for confirmation of this amendment, i.e. Amendment 47. [[14:05:29]] For-0 The amendment is not confirmed. Amendment 50. Sergey Gordienka, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I understand that the Party of Regions is diametrically opposed to changing its position, which was on the committee, so I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m0.u208	So we don't put her to the vote. 51st, accounted for. 52nd, neither does it insist, Sergey Gordienka, 52nd? No, so let's go, so let's move on. 53rd, Yuri Klukkowski, amendment of this content: part 22 of section 22 of one project after the words “his personal data”, add: “and also sends relevant documents or copies of them, certified by the manager of the relevant registry body that confirm the changes made.” At the request of the MP, I am voting on the approval of Amendment 53. [[14:06:40]] For-0 Correction not supported. 54th, Gordien, doesn't it insist? No, it's not. Now. 55th counted. 56th count. The 56th is the amendment of Alexander the Blackwolf. I put it to a vote, it's big, it's big, it's an amendment, I put it to a vote, you have it, your honors, on the request of the MP to vote on the confirmation of Amendment 56. [[14:07:23]] For 1 The amendment is not confirmed. Let's move on, Amendment 57 of Jury Klukkowski, it's set out for you, large by content, a long time to read it. That's why I'm calling for a vote to confirm Amendment 57. [[2:07:55]] For-0 No correction supported. Now, let's move on. 58th, 59th, rejected. Don't insist. 60th. 61 corrections? 61 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Gorbatuk, Gordijenko, Demčishen, Klukovsky: “The first sentence of part 5 of article 24 should be supplemented by the words: ‘including the identification of a specific copy by technical means’. I'll bet you a vote on the approval of this amendment. [[2:08:37]] For 1 Correction not supported. Now, one minute. 62nd, 63th count. 64th count. It's the 65th. 66 is rejected. Does the author insist? No, it's not. 67. Amendments to this content. May I have your attention, please? “Part three of article 27, one project after the words ‘normal polling stations, fill in the words ‘defined by law or referendum’. This amendment is included. Following the MP's insistence, I'm voting to confirm this p. [[14:09:29]] For-0 No correction supported. 68th, 69th accounted for. 70th counted, 71st counted, 72nd counted, 73rd counted. 74th overturned. There's no insistence? None. 75th counted. 76th, 77th, 78th counted. The '79s, the '80s accounted for. 81st accounted for. 82nd counted. 83. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Chernobyl. It's partially included in part six. At the same time, with the insistence of the National MP, I am voting on the proposal for confirmation number 83. [[14:10:33]] For the No correction supported. Now. 84th, it's counted. There's no objection. 85 revisions. The committee was not defined by this amendment: delete item 2 of the transitional provisions of the project section. The committee did not make a decision on this matter. I'm voting first for amendment number 85, Yuri Klukkowski. [[14:11:25]] For the Correction not supported. Pre-edited text remains. Amendment 86. Counted. Amendment 87. Counted. All adjustments are included. What are the observations? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6669]] Please vote. [[14:12:21]] For 249 The law is passed. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. I'd like to ask the heads of the committees to hold the session during the break to do so so that we can consider it.
