ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u1	Good health, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:02:37]] They registered cards in the 426 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Demyanka Mikli Ivanovich. Let's welcome our colleague, wish him every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 30 June 2010. 19 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 4 bills were adopted on a basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 6 bills and 2 draft decrees were rejected. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we discussed the situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine prior to the successful conclusion of this session and agreed that factions would submit their nominations to the Interim Commissions of Inquiry for the study of the situation related to the problem of “Rosukre Energo” and the issue of freedom of speech. [[I'll be simplified to say so.]] And the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider and make appropriate decisions according to the timetable that we have. Proposals have already been made by the faction of the Party of the Regions concerning the TSK to investigate the facts of the activity of “Rosukreenergo”. [[4 People’s Deputies]] I would ask the faction of the Communists and the Block of Lithuania to give their nominations so that we can immediately vote them, and we can give them a vote. No objections? Now, let's get to work, I think we have every reason to announce another agreement that we will be working on the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday. Yeah, break at 12 o'clock, obviously we won't. From 14 to 16 there will be a break, and there will still be fruitful work to complete again the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. So please note that I am voting on the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the July 1st, 2010 schedule. Please vote. [[11:05:35]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Region Party - 164, “Clock Timoshenko” – 17, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 5, Communists – 20, “Clock of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, the bill, i.e. the draft Decree on certain issues of ensuring the implementation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we should now consider it. [[Registration number 6397]] In view of the fact that the committee has not taken a decision on this matter, I propose that it be postponed and that the committee should consider the matter, give its opinion, so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the matter next plenary week, Tuesday. No, we'll be right there. Now we're going to take a quick look at these questions. What? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I ask you now to vote in favour of changing the order in which the issues set out in the timetable are dealt with. We're going to vote now, I'm asking them to vote. Let's make sure that this is all in the legal river. So that we can now consider the creation of two TSCs, and then consider the issues set by the timetable for today. I would like to support this proposal so that we do not have a dictatorship but have only good will. So I would now like to support the proposal to change the order of affairs set by the timetable for today, first to consider two questions about the creation of the TSC, and then to follow the timetable set for today. Please vote. And I'm asking you to give me the TSC papers. [[11:08:07]] For 415 Decision taken. So this means that it is the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the demand of one faction or another. I still want to work, dear colleagues. Don't scream, please. So, Your Honor, I will now put to the vote a draft decree establishing the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the decision of the Stockholm Arbitration Court, on the investigation of the facts of the activities of the ZAT "Roskre Energo" and on the involvement of the officials of the State authorities and the arrest of ex-head of the Government Customs Service of Makarenko A.V. Macarenka! It's by name. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to form a TSK in the composition of: the heads of the Temporary Investigation Commission, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, the Deputy Head, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatolia Kirilovich. Choose from the faction of the Party of the Regions – Bondik Valerija Anatoliyovich, Sulkovski Pavel Gnatovic, Leluka Olexija Volodimirovic; from the faction "Blok ulija Timoshenko" – Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, Volinz Mikhail Jakovic, Goodim Alexander Mikolaiovic; from the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – Ariev Vladimir Igorvic; from the faction of the Company – Alexandrovsk. Alla Alexandrovsk, from the Lithuanian Block. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Igor Sharov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u2	The Litwina Block is offering Baranov Valerija Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u3	Baranova. Well, then, what are we going to do, from BUTO, what are your last names, or from "Our Ukraine"? Then let's do it, dear fellows, seriously. to take serious matters seriously. Thus, it is proposed to elect the head of the Temporary Investigations Commission, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, Vice-President of the Kinakh Kinatholi Kirilovich; from the faction of the Bondik Valerija Anatoliyovich, Sulkovski Pavel Gnatovich, Leluka Olexija Volodymyrovich; from the faction of the "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko" by Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, Mikhail Wolinz, Alexander Goodim; from “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” by Vladimir Ariyev. From the faction of the Ukrainian Company Alla Alexandrovsk, and from the faction of the Lithuanian Bloc Valerija Baranov. Is there no objection? With this in mind, I'm voting on a motion for a draft ruling as a decree, registration number 6605. [[11:11:44]] For 238. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Now, dear colleagues, the draft decree. Now they're going to give us the freedom of speech. Until this document is presented, the next draft of the Ordinance establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances and reasons for the current state of affairs in the credit cooperation system. Dear colleagues, you have a project. Is there no objection? Please, Ivan Kirilenko. What we're talking about here is work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have asked to join this commission, see if you have a list in your hands, Javorovsky Vladimir Alexanderovich to include from our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u5	You have Bolour Antonin on your list. Yavorowski. So it's instead? Instead of Bolura, right? Taking into account this proposal, honourable colleagues, an election proposal is put to the vote. on the adoption of a decision establishing a TSC on the investigation of circumstances and the reasons for the current state of affairs in the credit cooperation system. Be the head of the TSK Prasololova Igor Mikolaiovich, deputy head of Klimenko Aleksandra Ivanovich, members of the TSK of Yavorovska Volodymyr, Vaszczuk Katerina and Matvijevo Vladimir. [[“Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction]] [[BUT faction]] [["Block of Lithuania" faction]] [[Company faction]] Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision as a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish a TSC on the investigation of the circumstances and reasons for the current state of affairs in the credit cooperation system. Please vote. [[11:14:07]] For 386 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft decree on the creation of a TSC on the investigation of censorship in the media. [[6579]] It is suggested that the TSC head – Heratchenko Irina, the deputy head of the commission, Landik Volodymyr. Choose from the Zubanov Committee Vladimir Alexanderovich, Bondik Valerija Anatoliyovich, one minute, undisturbed Bondarenko Olena, Kondratuk Olen, Kurpil Stepan and Catherinechuk Mikola. I'd like to ask the Company and the Lithuanian Block to give me their nominations, and instead of Bondik, I'd ask him to give another candidate, he's already in the previous TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u6	Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u7	Doves - recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u8	Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u9	And Sinchenko. And instead of Bondik, please give the man. Thus, honourable colleagues are invited to form a commission consisting of: Heratchenko Irina, Head of the Commission, Landik Volodymir, Deputy Head of the Commission, Zubanov Vladimir and Oreste Mutz (Faction of the Party of Regions), Bondarenko Olena (Faction of BUTT), Kondratuk Olena (Faction of BUTT), Cup Stepan (Faction of BUTT), Catherinechuk Mikola (Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense), Alexander Golub (Faction of the Company) and Viktor Sinchenko (Faction of the Block of Lithuania). And there's got to be another person from Areas by quota. Let's have another man. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Then, so that there are no charges of non-signatories, let us now follow the quota principle. And Vadim Koleschenko. [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] So in the proposed composition, I, my distinguished colleagues, am proposing a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decision. [[Registration number 6579]] [[11:17:19]] For 237 Dear People's Deputies,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u10	Please, by factions, the Party of the Regions is 0, Block of Timoshenko - 129, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 60, Communists -27, Block of Lithuania - 19, non-fractional - 2. I would like to announce a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, representatives of heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, representatives of the head, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. [[Registration number 6557]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kozub Alexander. From the procedure? Sergei Sas, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you remember that we were voted the commission of inquiry, which was elected Head of the Divine Inna Hermanovna, and before that composition of the commission was voted by the Company by the People’s Deputy of the Dove, and he did not vote for that commission. So we need to identify the company in which she proposes to the People's Deputy of the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u12	I'm asking for a faction, because that order is not signed, because not all the factions have submitted the candidatures, but we agreed that if there is no candidate within five days, this order will be signed. So I'd like to ask the faction in the line of work to make proposals. Dear colleagues, I have a request, in the working order, a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u13	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! As you can see, there are many problems in the State and a large number of decisions are taken to establish a special commission to study a particular problem. Therefore, the number of members of the faction does not, of course, allow for participation in the work of all commissions, which is very important if this rule is to be applied. Therefore, I ask you not to consider this proposal at this time, because then we must respect other issues when these commissions are being considered and established on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I am obliged to inform you that when a meeting of the Conciliation Board raised the question that two factions could no longer give representatives of their TSCs, considering that they had a small number and a large number of TSCs, then there was a call from representatives of large factions, however, to give their representatives to ensure an objective consideration of the sensitive issues that we have just decided on. Yes, please, let us consider this situation. So, Alexander Andryovich, please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on 16 June, the Committee considered the statements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Party of the Issaeva region delegation to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour and Kiricka on the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. At the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour and at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, the estimated quota of the Party of the Regions' MPs was not fully used. The committee also discussed the proposal for the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexandr Rostislavovic, deputy head of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization instead of the National Deputy of Ukraine Kolesnikov, who, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, the First Deputys. Deputy Heads, Secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, the First Deputy, Deputy Head, Secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization issues since 26 December 2007 was elected from the deputy faction of the Party of the Regions as deputy head of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization and which ceased its parliamentary powers on 11 March 2010. In addition, the committee reviewed the statements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Kovalevska Party of Deputies, Kelestin, Yankovsky, Yegorov, Leluka, Karakaya for election by members of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. The Committee decided to support the above-mentioned statements by the Ukrainian National Deputies regarding their election as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization and to submit an appropriate draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. [[Registration number 6537]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u16	Alexander Bondar, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u17	Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. You are now adding seven people from the Party of the Regions to the special control committee. Now on a special control committee, 35 people, half of whom represent the Party of Regions. What is the quota principle here, and how do you think this special control commission can work, with 40 or more men? How can this be done if this body simply cannot be gathered? If you're replacing those who were, that's one question. You're adding extra.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. We're putting those who were instead of the ones who came out. If you look closely, you will see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, please, let's not create problems here where they don't exist. Even though this Supreme Council of Ukraine works for the Privatization Commission, let them exercise control over the main work. We have a budget committee of how many? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have a question for the reporter. Here you are informing the Supreme Council that the committee recommends that our colleagues choose one or the other committees. And when the Rules Committee discusses the issue of other colleagues who, contrary to the law, combine parliamentary authority with work in the executive branch of power. In particular, there are a number of governors, and the deadline has been a long time for them to file these applications. These are the executive heads of Crimea, State Committees, and so forth. Why does the committee not consider these questions? Why do our fellow MPs violate the requirements of the Constitution for non-relationship? And the most regulatory - regulatory committee - in the parliaments of the world ignores and does not address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. At the last meeting of the Regulatory Committee, this issue has been carefully considered and will be decided in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the law. This question, this question is resolved in a specific order, according to the applications or no applications, in the order set by the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u22	Eugene Marmazov, Head of the Special Commission on Privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u23	Thank you. In general, according to the 93 Supreme Council Regulation, our commission, the Special Monitoring Commission for Privatization Control, should consist of 15 persons. To date, the commission is composed of 30 people, i.e. we have increased our commission by twofold. Of course, the Supreme Council's right to direct members of the people to the commission. But in fact, we have, in the commission, a real breach, here, the proportion of the factions. Of the 30 people who are currently in the commission, 14 – BUIT, 9 – Party of the regions. 9, i.e., the largest faction, regions, 6 fewer people than the BUIT. Two people from the Communists, Our Ukraine, one from the Block of Lithuania. Well, here's a new 7 heading. Of course, seven people might even out a little bit. That's a violation of proportion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u24	Yes, please allow the chairman of the committee to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u25	Yeah, but the trouble is, out of 30 people, there's a maximum of 6 to 8 people going to the board meeting. So it is desirable for those who are squabbled in this commission to participate actively to be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u26	Honorary colleagues, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the election of heads, first deputies, representatives of heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the Head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary, members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization”. [[Registration number 6557]] Please vote. [[11:27:45]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now have three draft parliamentary hearing orders to consider. I would like to consider the draft Decree on a series of Leni hearings on “Ukraine in the World”. [[Registration number 6513]] Please consider this issue with a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u27	And we can't, we have to vote separately. Please vote on a reduced procedure. [[11:28:37]] For 228 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Peter Yushchenko. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski. Please, Peter Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u28	Peter Yushchenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the Parliamentary Hearing Order on “Ukraine in the world”. Ukraine in the world is actually a portrait gallery that has more than 3,000 portraits and is materialized in portraits and is in the Ukrainian House on five levels. This gallery presents all the niche civilizations, all the branches of the clergy, from the creators, from the arts, from the sports, from the culture, from the military. These are 3,000 portraits that represent the participants in civilization who have fundamentally changed its design and made a significant contribution. Now I'm going to say that the gallery doesn't appear to be ethnic Ukrainians, it's Ukrainians, it's Ukrainians, it's Ukrainians, it's Ukrainians, it's Macedonians, it's Serbs, it's Jews, it's Armenians, it's Russians. We think that the name of such a polyphonic presence of the participants in this gallery today is relevant enough for our environment to make a large, many fragments, but the only political portrait of the nation. In a row present in such a timely, spatial continuum present since the days of Andrew the Great, who sanctified our land in 57 C.E., placed a cross on this earth and said that from this land, the truth will go from Volina to Alaska. Here come the builders, come the printers, come the philosophers, come the educators, come the scientists, come the participants in the creation of a series of empires.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u30	Thank you. Please support and take into account the situation of a similar parliamentary hearing, which will transform and give an additional impetus to the development and development of the gallery, which is actually a national attribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u31	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Please make the decision of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u32	Dear fellow national MPs, dear voters! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which I lead, considered at its meeting the proposal of a member of our committee, Peter Yushchenk. Before that, we went to a unique real exhibition in the Ukrainian House, and believe me, the members of the committee, as well as the representatives of the Ukrainian intelligence -- both creative and technical -- were truly impressed by the huge amount of that Ukrainian tree scattered over the entire planet. However, Peter Andriyovich must have made a small mistake, narrowing it down just to, say, this gallery. In fact, the subject looks much broader because obviously every nation in the political sense of that word, I emphasize, in the political sense of that word, that all people born on this earth, is really a unique topic that should be discussed in the Ukrainian Parliament, involving representatives and Ukrainian intelligence, and non-Ukrainian intelligence, involving representatives and eastern regions and Western regions. As a result, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality supports this initiative. As for the date of the meeting, there are of course problems, I think it should be moved to the fall and it might be November or December there, but most importantly -- we just ask, the committee asks what it would be worth to discuss. It's not politicized, it's not narrowed down, let's say we should look at it in the Ukrainian Parliament, really, this Ukrainian tree over the Ukrainian planet. We know. Over the planet. We know that Ukrainians are represented both in America and in Australia, in fact both in Canada and around the world, and in Russia and in Poland, and we should think about, let's say, our spiritual presence in politics and in the economy of other countries. I thank you for your attention, and I think you will support the draft of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, yesterday on our committee -- the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations -- we discussed this issue, Peter Yushchenko was present and the author of the draft decree. We decided to recommend that the Supreme Council include this topic of parliamentary hearing. True, I will tell you right away that we recommended Peter Andriyovich also to him, well. I thought about the situation so that we wouldn't just listen to the information, but that the Supreme Council would also give some specific recommendations for the Ministry of Culture, for the Ministry of Education, for other ministries and departments, so that not only the useful information for us, for our society could be heard, but some important things could be done for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian nation in a political sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u35	Alexander Stoyan, microphone. Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u36	I am a historian, and I knew a great deal about what Ukrainians in world history have done for many countries in the world. But what I saw at the exhibition struck me was that, in fact, kings in other countries, ministers, astronauts, scientists, and artists. And what Peter Yushchenko did is not politics, it is our national dignity. I would consider it appropriate for all of us to reject our political views and support our great work, because this is a great job. When you see what's done there, you want to be even more proud of those Ukrainians who were really great scientists, great kings, great generals, great heroes of Ukraine. I support this idea of parliamentary hearings, I call for the support of these parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u37	Vladimir Karpuk, then Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u38	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Of course, we support this idea, and we want to personally thank Peter Andriyovich for the work he did by creating this gallery. Because, indeed, the heads of state, diplomats, scholars, writers, artists who have made a tremendous contribution to the world culture, are from Ukraine or from Ukraine. Sadly, though, this is very little known, and so far their names have been attributed to other nations. I recently watched such an encyclopedia called Russia in the World, and unfortunately there are many Ukrainian names -- both Sikorsky and Maria Bashkortsev and others who are Ukrainians. Among Ukrainians, more than 40 Nobel laureates have won the Nobel Prize. Think about it, but think about which one of us knows about these things. And really, we need to get out, not just go outside this very gallery, we need to think about how to report how to popularize this knowledge, both in the world and among the growing generation of Ukrainians. Think about it as an optional topic in high school, high school, and so on. That's why we are, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u39	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Then there's Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u40	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the faction will not vote in favour of these parliamentary hearings. On what grounds? First of all, we know the initiator well, it'll be a nationalist Sabbath and no more, no less. Why am I talking about this? For one simple reason. Which, in 19 years of independence of the State of Ukraine, these figures have led to the fact that we are not already talking about Ukrainians in Ukraine, but we are talking about Ukrainians in scrolls. They are dying here, and we are talking about citizens of other States in full. Dear colleagues, at the end of the day, when will your conscience rise? What about Ukrainians in Ukraine is to think and address issues that relate to how to feed, how to wear, how to provide jobs, how to protect national culture, history and property, and not what you do: from morning till lunchtime, and then talk about how Ukrainians live in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u41	OlegZarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, there is much to be said about what needs to be thought of inside the country. But let's be honest, the country's authority consists of understanding how many taps this tap has made for civilization, for the world. And by the way, yesterday we asked Peter Yushchenka at the committee meeting if it was just ethnic Ukrainians. No, it is about foreigners from Ukraine from different nations, different nations. Therefore, we should support this offer. The only thing I would like to continue is the opinion of colleague Gnatkiewicz that there should be an exit should be the product of these parliamentary hearings. And it's likely that the committee of profile will have to work seriously on the recommendations, on the draft recommendations of these hearings, to make them relevant, not just informational. In general, this initiative should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! No, we are. Dear colleagues, one minute, I can't. The point is, according to the Rules: two for, two against, if the faction has not taken advantage of the opportunity to speak, it has one minute, and we have an exceptional case like this, Taras Crnrowil is non-fractional, so his word is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u44	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for understanding. I would like to highlight that decision at one point. In some of the speeches, it sounded like foreign Ukraine was this narrow group of Ukrainian parties that lived long ago in America, Canada, and so on. This is about 5, 2, 1 percent of the total foreign country. 4 or 5 million Ukrainians in Russia, including prominent figures in Russian politics, including Ukrainians who are Ukrainian citizens, Russian citizens who have problems. Russia stands for its citizens and people in Ukraine, why should we be worse? Ukrainians in Romania, who have always lived and lived there, Ukrainians, whom our social situation, whom we all so love to care about, about a simple citizen, has thrown away abroad, who today do not have the support of Ukrainian diplomatic representations and the Ukrainian state, which are paid in Italy, Spain, Greece. We need to discuss and make policies about these people. I think there's something for us to talk about and there's something to form in documents -- we need to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the matter. I'm just asking everyone to understand what this is about, not the diaspora, not its state, but the historical and cultural aspect of the problem of Ukraine, as it is represented in the world, on a historical and cultural scale. I'm just giving you a little bit of help so that you can make the right choice in the decision-making process. Another suggestion, respected colleagues from both the committee and the author, that since the project defined the date of July 7 this is unrealistic. So it's worth taking a proposal when we put the vote to set a date, let's say December of the month, because September and November are already busy, we already have decisions on parliamentary hearings in these periods. Therefore, respectable colleagues, taking into account the clarification that should be made in December and the appropriate clarification that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should submit the necessary documents by 1 November. I'm voting on a proposal for a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to hold parliamentary hearings is not the subject of "Ukraine in the world". [[Registration number 6513]] Please vote. [[11:42:36]] For 376 Decision taken. For reasons of vote, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u46	The factions, okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u47	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. You know, some of our colleagues in this room were critical of the idea proposed by Peter Andryovich Yushchenko. This can only be explained by the fact that these people were not at the exhibition, at that monumental gallery that Peter Yushchenko had made and had gathered for many years. I think he should thank you for that. And before the parliamentary hearing, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to arrange a visit of the national deputies to this gallery. Peter Andriyovich himself conducted a tour, spent four hours without stopping himself from the ancient princes and our contemporaries from Ukraine. This is a person with phenomenal memory, erudition, and that is why we need to support this idea. And for those who criticize, go and see. The whole world revolves around Ukraine and the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u48	Thank you. I, my dear colleagues, will say to this observation that I was also fortunate to hear a lecture on this subject. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Then Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, I want to thank you for telling me exactly what this is about, when we're different now. In another country's language, they were trying to say that it was about immigrants or something. It's about our story. And I would like to say to those who do not appreciate either the country or its language, speaking from the parliamentary rostrum, in spite of the Constitutional Court's decision to interpret article 10 of the Constitution, which obliges you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to speak here in Ukrainian just so that you know, as stated in the decision of the Constitutional Court. So I would like to remind you that there are more than 200 miraculous images of God’s mother, the miraculous icons that appear in Ukraine and that we need to talk about, we need to know, and we need to see. And this is the national idea that will unite all of Ukraine so that they will not stop fighting. And you looked at what parties they had.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u50	Vladimir Landik. Dear colleagues, I ask you now, I ask you to consider only one circumstance that we are working today until we have completed our consideration of the issues. So that you may calculate your strength.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u51	Thank you. Landik, faction of Party regions. You know, I was lucky to see it, too, but I didn't have the strength or the time to see it through, and I wanted to go see it again. You know there's no ideology there, there's nothing there. There's pride in us, everyone, for being Ukrainians. And the baggage of knowledge our colleague, Peter Yushchenko, deserves the highest praise and vocations. And the title, when we have academics, is, with that knowledge, we must have academics as well, and the heroes of Ukraine, who are historians who love the country, who fight for it and all their lives, I think that it would take a lifetime to get that knowledge. And knowledge and passing it on only tells us that we are all Ukrainians and all the people on earth are brothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u52	Alla Alexandrovska. Then Oleg Zarubinsky finishes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u53	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, do not rejoice, do not rejoice over the princes and kingdoms. And I was struck by one of the deputies who made it clear that the purpose of the parliamentary hearings was only to allow one person to show what he had done for the good of our Ukraine. Go down to the land of sin. Today we talk very little about the workers, the peasants, the labourers who have always created Ukraine's wealth. You don't like to talk about them, you don't like to remember them. And the shame that we have on exports, on international exhibitions, we show saloons, we show houses, we show potters, but we don't show space, we don't show intelligence, we don't really show culture to our people. Therefore, we do not want you in this room to use the rostrum of Parliament to glorify one particular person. And the difirambs that have already been spoken here today speak of what you will be speaking at parliamentary hearings. We Communists are against it. Be modest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u54	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I just had to take the floor because when we voted 376 votes and that's showy, in my motives the colleagues started talking, really, only about a really extraordinary and unusual exhibition. But the question is not in the exhibition, not in the exhibition at all, the question of what the people of the political Ukrainian nation were able to do for the development of global civilization, medicine, not just politics, there are kings, and so on, in space, in energy, in engineering and so on. So I think we need to step away from narrowing down the problem. And the exhibition, indeed, is unbiased and orderly, and it's an impetus to something that we've looked at differently in our place in the world. And understanding its proper place in the world can also help solve internal problems, progress, and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u56	Lilia Grigorovich, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u57	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Ladies and gentlemen, you have noted what words and thoughts have just been spoken in this session hall. We haven't said "our dignity" in so long, "we Ukrainians". We spoke it in different languages, but we spoke it in a uniform way. So in Parliament today, we joined in a very good cause. There are, people divide into those who have seen and have not seen. We need to see everyone. For speaking out of sight comes out as it echoes from one part of the hall. There are also participants in the Great Homeland War, and miners, and cosmonauts, and heroes. There is our greatness and dignity. And one of the speakers, the father of young children, son and daughter, is likely to want to leave. In time, they would take their children there to see which country he or she is planning or building. Because otherwise you're going to have to raise your children like Malchisz-Ploche and Pavlik Morozov. And we have a gallery called the Great Ukrainians. And we will all be raising a growing generation and a future state on it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! I would like to announce a draft of the Parliamentary Hearings Ordinance on “Health and, excuse me, Your Honor! I would like to announce the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status and Prospects of Hydrocarbons in Ukraine and the Implementation of the State Monopoly for this activity. Registration number 6404, 6404-d. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:50:39]] For 242 Decision taken. Rapporteur: Vladimir Danilenko and Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! The national security of each country depends in many ways on its ability to reduce its dependence on external mineral sources and to ensure its economic, economic, essential types of mineral raw materials in products, volumes that ensure the sustainable functioning of the industrial complex. The issue of mineral raw materials, raw materials and the management of the farm complex is an important feature of industrially developed countries' policies and is being addressed, I stress, at the national level. These countries are pursuing policies to reduce dependence on external sources of mineral raw materials. The project is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: “The state and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and the introduction of a state monopoly on the activity in question, in which broad public discussions are launched with a view to clarifying relevant national policies. The purpose of these parliamentary hearings is a broad public discussion, during which the national deputies of Ukraine, representatives of state authorities, international organizations, leading scientific institutions, educational institutions and other institutions of society form recommendations for improving public administration in the field of use of nadrs, the need for a state monopoly for the production of carbohydrates, the development of a balanced mineral raw material base to meet the projected needs of the domestic industry and taking into account the global market. The draft decision is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: “The state and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and the introduction of a state monopoly”, during which discussions will begin. The adoption of the bill will have a positive impact on government administration and activities in the field of geological study and use of nadr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u61	As for the alternative project, it came out, I understand, from us. [[Gordijenko, Be Behem and Danilenko]] And we need to understand that its authors are magnets who are not interested in introducing a state monopoly into the production of any useful fossils and thus in the insurance of their own business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u62	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikola Martinenko, head of the committee. Please, about the 6404-D draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u63	Honourable National Deputies, at a meeting of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Security on 2 June 2010, discussed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status and Perspectives of Hydrocarbons in Ukraine and the implementation of the State monopoly on this activity, submitted by the MPs: Danilenko, Gordijenko and Bebelzem. [[No. 6404]] After discussing the draft decree, the Committee, in accordance with article 234 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, introduced a revised draft ruling on the matter, registration number 6404d. In particular, the committee proposes to hold a hearing on 10 November 2010 as well as a changed name for “on the state and prospects of the production of hydrocarbons in Ukraine”. The name proposed by the authors narrows the subject down considerably at parliamentary hearings, so we suggested that we take a broader approach to determining hydrocarbon production policies during hearings, and that we make even smaller changes. All I can say is that all the committee members present voted unanimously as 6404-d. At these parliamentary hearings, it is suggested that the situation in Ukraine be discussed with regard to the production of hydrocarbons, particularly the lack of enough of them for the needs of the national economy and the population. It is also necessary to check today’s situation with the orientations outlined in the 2030 energy strategy for the development of the sector. Parliamentary hearings will propose a set of measures to improve the situation in the field by making appropriate recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u64	Yes, dear colleagues, if there is a need for exchange of ideas, please register. Well, if there aren't any speakers, we'll vote. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction, then Sergey Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u65	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Of course, the problem to be considered at these hearings is of great importance. There was a time when Ukraine gained about 70 billion gas. These were the Shebelinsky, the Dashawian lineage. They are today, indeed, if they were used mainly but there are new genealogies, and especially the same Sakhalin, especially the shelf of the Black Sea, from the bottom of which some scientists say that it rises annually to about 17 billion gas, and it's been going on for centuries. So Ukraine can be a very rich country, so they're fighting for the oligarchy shelf, which is under the cover of a President who's already gone. They were divided into fours of the Black Sea. We need to consider who shared what they shared and whether Ukraine has or does not have gas and use it for the state, not for individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u66	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u67	Sergey Gordienko, Communist faction, Poltavian. Dear colleagues, the question is very important. For 20 years, Ukraine’s total derby and its navel have led to tremendous intelligence problems today. We've done everything we've done today, and it's been investigated in Soviet times. The colossal problems are in the drilling itself, and it's the mining of the wells, but most importantly. Most importantly, article 13 of the Constitution states: “The earth, the nadra, the atmospheric air is the property of the Ukrainian people”. The Ukrainian people shed millions of lives for this, but is it the owner of the Ukrainian turd? None. Thus, the introduction of a state monopoly on the production and use of nadrama by the State alone is the most up - to - date issue, for all that we will fill the budget with is nothing compared to the colossal resources that are nadra and are used by families, clans, and individuals. The fate of the Poltavanaftogaz company. Geology”, which has employed 12.5 thousand people and is now virtually destroyed by the actions of the past government. Licenses taken, sold, and committed wells are actually metal scraps that are still in operation today. This is a vivid example of the attitude toward this problem. The question that it needs to hear and implement a state monopoly is an alpha and an omega for the Ukrainian economy. Those who will not stand in positions against the introduction of a state monopoly mean against Ukraine's independence, it's against the budget itself, the economy of Ukraine is developing, it's about increasing tariffs. Self - worth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u68	Please complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u69	I bring to your knowledge that the cost of a thousand cubes of Poltava gas is 147 dollars, and all those who go and burn the conforacies in the kitchen pay tens of times more. What's the difference? Think about it, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u70	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely right to raise the question that parliamentary hearings should be held on the state and prospects of the production of hydrocarbons in Ukraine. It's absolutely necessary, and that's why I've been making parliamentary inquiries, and we've been asking questions about what to give to four girls from Vanko-Prikerchensky today, probably wrong, our genealogy, our entire shelf. It's on its way. It's given up by this coalition today. It's given to us today by this coalition and this kindred of salt, although the Germans have already helped us today and told us that you've had enough gas for over a year and a half. We don't want to win. And the geological service is completely driven away, and today this authority does not allow it. Because of this, I think we should go back, and I agree with Deputy Gordienck, who emphasized article 13. But let us read article 13 completely. It tells us that this is not the property of the people, that it is the property of the Ukrainian people, not just of government officials who have thus come to power and serve citizens who have several citizens. That's why. And you know, wonderfully those oligarchs who have a few citizenships and now run these branches. They're taking care. This makes it wiser to ask the question and discuss it: Decree 6404-d – “On the state and prospects of the production of hydrocarbons”. And that's where we're going to find that the national monopoly needs to be set, not the state monopoly. It's state-owned today, it's kind of de facto installed. de jure, but it's not really there. That is why I propose to support Decree 6404 with the letter “d”. And I'd like to add a paragraph to this statement about the inventory of all the genealogies and we're already talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u72	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, why did I sign up for the "against" speech? Because our parliamentary hearings of effectiveness have been zero for a long time. I fear that these parliamentary hearings will be the same. Remember, for more than 10 years in this session room, there are sometimes energy conservation, energy security, alternative energy sources, and so forth. Can you please say, over the past 10 years, that at least one government will once leave some kind of memory mark on this extremely important field of socio-economic life in our society? Not once. We also have debts, the highest legislative body in Ukraine, the Supreme Council. One aspect only. Dear colleagues, Ukraine today can earn considerable money each year and the State Budget, to the State Budget, and can save considerable money on energy. I'm talking about our Ukrainian Spirit Plants and the possibility of producing bioethanol. In the Ternopil region in the village of Diseases stands, I emphasize, it stands, not works, after the last word of the technique for investment money, the constructed plant for the production of bioethanol. It's fully automated. Who won't let him do his job? Imperfection of legislation. Stepan Karlovich Glussy of the BUT faction wrote the bill. He's been through all the experiments, he's not even in the daytime. And there's no government interest. Why? Because it's what those who trade in petroleum products are against. Then we'll have to give up a part of the market. There's this bill in the hall, and we have to vote for it. Every year the effects of bioethanol alone will give us billions of dollars. The annual income to the State budget is millions, hundreds of millions of dollars. If we are sincere in our desire to do something, we must do something. As much as you can shake the air in this session room. People's deputies of Ukraine, you're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the matter is now under discussion, please pay attention. The point is that the draft regulations suggest that parliamentary hearings be held accordingly on October 13 and November 10. At the same time, I inform you, fellow Members, that parliamentary hearings are scheduled for October and November. According to the regulations, or law, only one parliamentary hearing can take place a month. So when I put these proposals to the vote, honourable colleagues, so that we can make decisions consciously and then there's no reason, as it sounded in the speeches that we're holding parliamentary hearings, we're not concluding any of these. And once again, I am calling on the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give the principle of opinion. Dear colleagues, so you could put to the vote that you'll be doing in January, that's all. Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken a decision and that we no longer have an order of the month where the decision of the Supreme Council has already been scheduled to hold appropriate parliamentary hearings. So let's put on a January month. So I'm going to put two rulings to the vote in a row, presupposeing parliamentary hearings in January and corresponding to a change in the date for the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We can't have inventory, because it's an organizational decision, where it's only about preparing parliamentary hearings. As a result of parliamentary hearings, I feel that this decision must be written down. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status and Prospects of Carbon Supply in Ukraine and the introduction of a State monopoly on this activity by the authors: Danilenko, Gordijenko, Bevèz, with details on the date of parliamentary hearings – January 2011 corresponding to the change in the date for the execution of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking this into account, please vote. [[Registration number 6404]] [[12:07:00]] For 243 Decision taken. Now, Mr. President, I would like to announce to you the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The recovery and rest of children, young people and families with children in Ukraine" that I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[Registration number 3439, 3439-d]] Please vote. [[12:07:37]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporters: Ukrainian national deputies Victor Korge and Catherine Lukyanova Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u75	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The socio-economic difficulties, the unsatisfactory environmental situation, are compounded by the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, overcrowding, stress and other negative factors that cause a significant reduction in immunity and contribute to the emergence of chronic diseases in children that exacerbate the problem of childhood disability. An analysis of the health factors that affect children and young people shows that about 10 percent depends on health, 20 percent on inheritance, 20 percent on ecology, and the environment -- another 20 percent and 50 percent, and I'm paying attention to your lifestyle. The very formation of a healthy way of life contributes to improving the health of the growing generation and the population as a whole. At present, the social protection of children, young people, and families with children in the underprivileged categories and their rights to 100 percent coverage of organized forms of health and rest are also important. At the same time, the absence of a national program for the recovery and rest of children, a register of children’s health and recreation facilities, and the evaluation of health facilities and effective measures for their development do not help to improve this situation. And it's also a big concern that for the first time in years of independence, we haven't heard from the Supreme Council of the previous authorities' reports on the health company in 2008-2009. In order to draw the attention of society to the problem of recovery and rest, as well as to regulate these and a number of other issues, we propose that parliamentary hearings be held to facilitate the implementation of a system-wide approach and the development of a comprehensive system of child recovery and rest for children, young people and families with children. I'd like to make some changes to the ruling, set a deadline, well, now I'd like to consult, because I need to understand, I asked for December 1st, but if it's January.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u76	Now let's hear another report and then agree on a position. Because this question is sensitive, and for a year we were unable to consider the draft of the appropriate decision. Sit down, let's make a deal, then. Katerina Lukyanova. Dear colleagues, let's hear it, but there are two sets of regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u77	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, discussed at its meeting on 16 June 2010 the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearings on "Health and Recreation of Children, Young People and Families with Children in Ukraine". [[Registration number 3439]] [[tabled by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Korzem]] The purpose of the parliamentary hearings “Health and rest for children, young people and families with children in Ukraine” is to implement a systematic approach and develop a comprehensive system of child recovery and rest for young people and families with children. The Committee supports the proposal of the national deputy Korja to hold parliamentary hearings and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider a draft amended decree on parliamentary hearings in 2010 on the health and rest of children, young people and adopt it as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 3439-D]] [[tabled by the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee]] For the transcript, I would like to point out that the date proposed by the draft decree was 10 November 2010, and it is already busy, so the committee would like to hold parliamentary hearings on December 01 this year, if December 01 is possible. Because, understand, in fact, the healing season will be over and, I think, just after the recovery season, Parliament and the Ministry of Family Rights, young people and sports have to determine what were the shortcomings of the healing season, which were the acquisitions in order to prepare in time for the next recovery season. Please support the draft decree on parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Or we can make a deal like this right now. Since we are late to consider this issue, perhaps we should put it in such a plane: on the basis of the recovery of children in 2010 and consider this issue, let's say we should. Maybe go to some here and go to some here violation of the Rules, look at this question, say, in October months, and then it would be logical. [[One minute]] Because if we don't make any decisions right now, you know very well that it's going to have a negative social, negative social resonance. And we have to watch what's going on. I must say, dear colleagues, today there has been a significant increase in the number of children in the trauma wards of the children’s hospitals. The reason is that they're under surveillance at school, and now vacations are children on the streets. Therefore, such a date would be acceptable. Please make your suggestions during the discussion. Please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, then Paul Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u79	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we don't have to do the recovery in 2010, because that will narrow it down. This is, indeed, an extremely sensitive and highly multi-profile problem. The child health and rest systems in Ukraine, I don't think, have been developed. Because it's responding to a lot of ministries, a lot of central executive bodies, and, accordingly, the special organs and commissions that are created in the fields. To date, there has been a discussion of what recreation is, what healing is. Costs are usually not available, but a relatively high commitment is made each year, for example, at least 50 percent of children should be healed in areas. Let's say in the Ministry of Minagrumpolitics, as far as I know, since 2005, although prices have risen tremendously and the same 10 million has been allocated. How can all children be cured, for example, for 10 million dollars in this ministry? Many things, such as recovery, are replaced by the presence of a so - called day’s stay at school. So the kids are there for a few hours at school, they're in groups, they're not doing any health care, they're just doing tours, and we're doing percentages. Therefore, we need to consider, not for these numbers, but for the sake of health figures. And they're like today, if you take children of school age, you have 2 to 2.5 chronic diseases per child. According to the Yaremenka Social Centre, published recently, the sociological survey method, especially for older children and those who study at first- and second-level accreditation facilities, is a fairly high percentage of those who are addicted to tobacco use alcohol and so on. So this is a very serious problem that needs to be addressed by the beginning of 2010. And really.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u80	Please, Paul Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It was appropriate to hold these parliamentary hearings before the start of the child’s recovery period, before the summer began. Last year we adopted the Law on the Rest and Health of Children. And so there was a decision on the committee, there was no parliamentary hearing until today, but all the proposals made by the people's deputies, including the National MP, the author of this draft Supreme Council ruling, are all correct. And on December 1st, if it's not November 10th, we're going to conclude that this year we're going to make all the conclusions. And at parliamentary hearings, we'll make new proposals. The purpose of the parliamentary hearings “Health and rest for children, young people and families with children in Ukraine” is to implement a systematic approach and develop a comprehensive system of child recovery and rest for young people and families with children. And I would like to point out that at the last meeting of the committee there is no MP, all the deputies supported the proposal of the author of this ruling by Korž, National Deputy Korž Viktor Petrovich, to hold parliamentary hearings. And he recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider a draft decision to hold parliamentary hearings in 2010 on the health and rest of children and young people, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee. But accept it today as a foundation and as a whole. And once again, I'm going to say to the stenographer that if it doesn't fit the date of the decision -- July 10th -- we're going to propose a December 1st, 2010. Please support the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on 1 December 2010 on the recovery and rest of children, young people and families with children in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u82	Oleg Zarubinski. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u83	Oleg Zarubinsky, People's Party, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues! We've got an interesting tradition of conducting seasonal parliamentary hearings. The day before the spring-field campaign is about spring-field work. The children's pre-emergency is about healing their children. I think that's the wrong approach. When it comes to parliamentary hearings, it is evidently a systemic, multifaceted, and multifaceted analysis of problems. If for many years a problem has arisen and it is real, and everyone knows about it, with regard to the recovery of children, it is actually a system that is degraded in today’s Ukraine. What happened before, even 20 or 25 years ago, is called a system when the state was concerned about the recovery of children, about the rest of children. And now it's totally spontaneous things, not systemic things, not multi-level things, and so on. In this regard, it seems to me that there is great sense for such parliamentary hearings to conduct themselves without being attached to July or June, for without systematic, I want to say again, the consideration of this problem will be nothing. If, indeed, these hearings had been held in the fall, they could on the one hand take risks and take an analysis of what happened, and on the basis of this normal, adult, as they say, approach this problem. And one more moment. Why should such hearings be conducted? Because in this area there are so many violations that I don't know in what other areas there are so many violations. The journeys to Artek cost up to 20,000 dollars. I'd like someone to check the cost of travel in the children's health center. Why do dozens of intermediate structures speculate on this? There is something to talk about, but it must be done seriously and well prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u84	Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I want to support those Ukrainian national deputies who rightly notice why, when it comes to healing, we only talk about summer. In Ukraine, we now have an entire ministry each year — the Ministry of the Family, young people, and so on, and recovery. Every district government has an office with appliances, telephones, and funding. In the district governments, we have substitutes for the heads of the humanities movement, which are also supposed to do so. What? In the meantime, we see a system of out-of-school education -- it's also the health of our children; a folded job; children's, young sports schools, which have given not one Olympic hero a trip to life at a time; and the best part, they have turned away from the bad company and converted to the real goals of others; schools of the Olympic Reserve are barely breathing. That's bad, that's bad. But, colleagues, this is not the only problem. The problem is that discipline, pay facilities, and not all parents are able to send their children there. Tell me, what could be scarier than property differentiation in a child’s, adolescent environment? We start swearing the police for crime, but it's not there, it starts there. My colleague Karpuk is certainly right. Recovery is not just those 20 days of summer, even in recreational areas: Crimea or Carpathia, but daily inequity, inadequate eating in children's dining rooms, in kindergartens. Think about how many mass poisonings. Remember how difficult it is to treat children. Think of these constant statements that you need money. Let's do one thing after these hearings, at least one group to open up. Check one of the children's hospitals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. And there's this proposal. I would ask the authors of the decree and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to listen to it. We were just discussing this proposal. Considering that the recovery and rest season is taking place, three committees could be entrusted: the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, the Committee on Education and Science, and a joint committee hearing would be held before the conclusion of the session, to consider the matter and to prepare for September the month of consideration for the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because otherwise, my dear fellows, you understand very well, this will be a formal execution of the procedure. Therefore, if we would now agree to draft regulations and vote on such a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine: first, to entrust the three committees headed by Paul Kostenko, Tetjana Bahechev, Vladimir Polochalo, to hold joint parliamentary hearings on this issue, committee hearings or joint committee hearings, to consider this question. And adequately prepare for September-month information on this issue with clearly worked out proposals for consideration at the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm sure it had a positive effect. Is there no objection? So I'm voting on this proposal. To entrust three committees headed by our colleagues – Paul Kostenko, Tetjana Bachevieva, Vladimir Polochalo – to hold joint committee hearings to address the issues of child-rearing and prepare, this is the second point, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine information on this issue, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine should hear this question in September this year, also receiving relevant materials from the government. And the order in which I'm going to deal with this is that I'm sure you'll determine what the committee results are. united. a joint committee hearing. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:25:19]] For 354 Decision taken. I ask the secretariat to draft the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree and to foresee to our decisions that we are responsible for carrying out this work as Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikola Tomenko. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider with you, as we agreed at the Conciliation Council, the question of recommending parliamentary hearings on the subject "Implementing 12-year general secondary education in Ukraine: problems and ways to overcome them." At the same time, I must tell you, dear colleagues, that the necessary materials have not come from the committee. I also have to inform you that the working, moral and psychological situation is not good on the committee, and given that I am. What I have received from the committee, I ask the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikola Tomenka, who is the curator of the committee concerned, to hold meetings of the committee, to find out what the reasons are and to promote the normalization of the committee's work, because there is an appropriate political struggle. We need practical work. With this in mind, I propose that we postpone consideration of this issue and not consider it now. Please, head of the committee, turn on the microphone. One minute, an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u87	Dear colleague Vladimir Mikhailovich! Indeed, I would like to say that it was your commission to prepare the committee hearing. Parliamentary hearings, as well as Bill 6518 after this consideration, which were introduced by the deputies Martinyuk, Zarubinski, Lutsky and Samylik. There was a committee meeting yesterday, committee hearings. The committee hearings took place in science, and what concerns the consideration of these issues that have been prepared, the deputies have come, a number of deputies have written you a letter, namely, I, Davymuk, Donny and Robetz. The three deputies from the Party of Regions were at this time in the hall, one of them even talked about the fact that the committee wasn't meeting him. They looked, some of them looked at the meeting place, and they did not come. So I would ask Mr. Ephraim Alexander to force his deputies to attend meetings of the committee that raised two important questions yesterday. That's why I'm not only asking you to withdraw this question, but I'm asking you to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, please! I'm asking Vladimir Ivanovich Polocho. Dear colleagues, we are each other. We all respect each other. Let's just say that we don't bring these inside pieces to the U.K. Court, it's not interesting to people, it's disgusting and disgusting. Please hold a committee meeting and find out why the committee is not working. If these deputies don't go to work, please, the honourable committee heads, when you sign the tables, don't put the "eight" there, we won't pay the salary. Or. And we have this situation: you can't have a committee, and once the month is over, you show everybody is working crazy, everybody's going to work. They don't go -- let's not pay the wages. At least it'll be at least fair. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the question, we have 12.30 now: the election and the release of judges. I'm asking you to invite representatives of the judicial corps into the session room. And I'm announcing the question of the election and release of judges. The rapporteur is the chairman of the committee of Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Please, Sergey Vasilovich. They come in, you report, let them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice at its meeting on 13 June 2010 considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general conditions. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 6613. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Homo Maria Volodymyrna; Thermal District Court of the Vinny region of Vojnarevich Mikhail Grigorovich; The Nicopolian District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Cuprina Andrija Petrovich; Yasinovite District Court of the Donetsk district of Shigort Fedor Sergiyovich; Korostišov District Court of the Žitomir district of Vasilek Romana Alexandrovich; Lubari District Court of the Shidlovsky region of Šidlovsk Viktor Bronislavovich; The Mukatov District Court of Zakarpatsk, Bondarenko Yuri Alexanderovich; The Colombian District Court of Ivano-Frankiv District of Berkechuk Bogdanovna; The Novomirgorod District Court of Kirovograd District of Oblivious Roman Anatoliyovich; The Renoi district court of the Odessa district of Sorokin Kostin Valeriyovich; Zynkowski District Court of Poltava Region Anatolia Vasilovich; Poltava District Court of the Poltava District of Struk Ludmila Ivanovna; Krukovi District Court of Kremenchuk Poltava District of Hinevich Vasil Ivanovich; Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna District Semenjuk Valentina Vasilovna and Turtle Vladimir Alexiyovich; Zvenigrad District Court of the Cherka district of Honcharenko Tetjanu Vasilovna; The Smilian District Court of the Cherkas region of Kalashnik Vasil Pavlovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u90	Sergey Ivanovich's AK.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u91	Kalashnik Vasil Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u92	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u93	And then Sergey Ivanovich walks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u94	Yeah, yeah. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u95	Kalashnikov Vasil Pavlovich. Cerkas District Court of Czerka district, Sergio Ivanovich; Coryukowa District Court of Chernigiv district of Churpchenk Mikhail Ivanovich Please support this Decision Project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! No warning? That's why I'm bringing to your attention the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 6613]] Please vote. [[12:33:22]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the judges whom we have just elected to office on an untimely basis and to wish them the faithful service of the law and in good health. Now for the second order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u97	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine resign: the Court of Appeal of the Czernovetsk Region of Czmil Ivan Haritonović in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of Kyiv Hodasa Volodymira Ilić in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of the duties. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u98	No objection, dear colleagues? I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. [[Registration number 6614]] Please vote. [[12:34:36]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us thank the judges who have worked honestly and conscientiously, and now, under circumstances, have been released in connection with the application for resignation. Thank you. When we do, we will consider. I don't have it. I don't have it. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the questions in the chapter “second reading”. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Petar Stepanovich. Please, who will be speaking from the committee? He's out. Then let me do the repairs. Dear colleagues, we're on our way. Amendment number 1 Vladimir Yavorowski. It's not counted. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. That is, there is every reason to put him to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]] [[Registration number 2058]] Please vote. [[12:36:36]] For-125 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading. [[Registration number 2058]] [[12:36:58]] For-125 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 219 of the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, a report by Novikova Julia Volodymyrna. [[on the timing of claims to correct descriptions and arithmetic errors in a court decision]] [[Registration number 1090]] Reporter, where? I draw the attention of the committee heads to negligence in preparing for consideration of issues in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! Three amendments have been made to the bill, all taken into account. Is there any other way of thinking? None. So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 219 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. [[Registration number 1090]] [[12:38:12]] For 326 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, the rapporteur is the head of the committee, the deputy head of the committee, Xen Ljapina. [[Registration number 3277]] Yes. So you're going to be the head, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. A bill aimed at bringing a series of laws into line with the Law on Principles of State Regulatory Policy has been amended by a number of laws such as laws on external economic activity, on the integration of citizens, on the Antimonopoly Committee, on information and so forth, which provide a procedure for the publication of draft regulatory acts, on the analysis of regulatory influence, and on the consideration of public opinion after discussion. 27 amendments have been made, some of them are included, some of them are not, so please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the amendments aren't included in Kseniya Lapina, so I understand that you don't insist on them? Don't insist. And Amendment 27, Yuri Carmazin, I understand you don't insist either. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, there are some observations from the General Legal Department, I ask you to keep that in mind. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on bringing them into line with the Ukrainian Act on Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities]] Registration number 3277. Please vote. [[12:40:24]] For 291 The law is passed. I'm announcing a draft Act on the basic principles of the State's interaction with private partners. The rapporteur is the deputy chairman of the committee of Xenius Lapin. Registration number 5239.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u101	Thank you, fellow Members, it's a very important law. I would like to point out that today Ukraine is almost the only one in Post-Radians that has no conceptual basis for a public private partnership. This is a form of cooperation between the state, or local government, with private partners, primarily aimed at performing more effective and more effective functions, such as public authorities and public authorities. It's a form that's very common in the world, and a lot of developed countries like: Switzerland, Great Britain, France, Germany, the United States of America have been using this form for about 20 years, building roads, building other communication, and actually developing infrastructure, developing the country. So I stress that this law is really very important. He's suffering a lot, we've looked at him on the committee many times. Today it is referred to as the second reading, part of the amendments counted, part not, but mostly the majority of editorial amendments not included. In fact, all the suggestions are taken into account. And I point out that this is a particularly important law for Ukraine in connection with the preparations for the Euro-2012. Because the principles of the State Private Partnership are those that will allow Ukraine to prepare quickly and effectively for the Euro-2012 championship. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a law as a whole. The main legal office made the following decision: The bill requires further elaboration and re-reading. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u103	There are other amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u104	Is it? Change the vote. Yuri Carmazin, what article, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u105	Second, then sixth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u106	2 amendment, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u107	2 amendment, essentially, I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u108	Now let Yuri Carmazin explain, and then Kseniya will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin. I want to make two adjustments right away, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to save time. 2 revisions and 6th. I propose to change the law, to call it "The interaction of public utilities and private partners". And in the 6th amendment, I propose a part of the first article of article 1 to read: “The state private partnership is cooperation between the State of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the territorial communities and the legal entities and the individuals involved – private partners, with the exception of state and municipal enterprises and other legal persons, to which the State or the territorial community is a party, based on the agreement established by this law, by other legislative acts.” [[State partners]] I think this definition is, well, a little bit more solid than what's in the table so far, and I'd like to support it. This will make it impossible for me to make other adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u110	Thank you, dear fellows, I wanted to point out that the title of this law was still the proposal of the Tucker, about a public-private partnership, which is also more relevant to the content. But there's a problem, we've had a long discussion with the Science and Experimental Authority, and just what we've kept the name, the state-private partnership, is the result of this discussion. And we ask you to leave the same name as the definition as it is. It basically covers everything our esteemed colleague said, which is predicted to be a community partner in the form of local authority representing local communities participating in this partnership. But in order not to lead to misunderstandings with our scientists, who argued that the name of the State’s private partnership should be left alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u111	And second of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u112	The second is the same thing, in principle, it contains a definition, a definition. The definition is this and it lists all the forms that Mr. Carmazin spoke of. But we're asking the formulation to leave it as it is, because it's been done with scientific expertise, and you see, we haven't quite agreed yet, so it's been a very long discussion. It's a very new simple concept for Ukraine, and that's why it's causing a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u113	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:45:36]] For-12. It's not working. Now I'm putting amendment number six to the vote. [[12:45:58]] For-9 The decision is not taken. We can vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin. 19 Amendments, Page Seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like us to go through the Rules, and that's why there's a better legislative field. I suggest in the 19th amendment that part of the second article 6 be deleted. For those of you who don't have a table and are guided solely by the hand of my colleague Chechtev, I'll give you an update on what's going on. The second paragraph states that in the second part of article 6: “foreign operators and Ukrainian operators exercise equal rights to participate in public procurement.” I would like to see another country in the world where it would be written that everyone is sharing with other countries, with other companies of other countries their budget. Show me. There's no such country, there's just no country. So I propose that this part of the second article 6 be deleted. And colleagues from the “regions ” rightly say that Honduras, which is now being transformed in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, by the way, Honduras is much higher than Ukraine, both at the level of development and at the level of competitiveness. So we don't know who's gonna catch up with whom today. And secondly, I want to draw attention to the fact that all of the member states of the World Trade Organization have this record. Moreover, I point out that the exclusion from this has led us, for example, to have a law that we recently voted on and took into account the amendment of President Yanukovich to the Law on the Construction of Areas, you remember. That was why she was bound to have the same disfellowshipping as Carmazin suggested. Because this violates our obligations to the World Trade Organization. The record that was made is consistent with our international obligations and is valid.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment number 19 Yuri Carmazin. [[12:48:28]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich. What's that? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Next amendment 51st. Dear National Deputies! This is what we wrote in article 20. In the event that prices, fees for services provided in the process of implementing a public-private partnership are set at a level lower than the amount of economically based costs for their production, the grant, the private partner shall be entitled to reimburse his expenses in accordance with the rules set out in the legislation. I'd like us to either predict the mechanism of this compensation, and we didn't foresee it, or then we ruled it out. Because they're just going to hang out with us. Xenia Mikhailvna, do you understand? It's just a declaration that doesn't carry anything. Either let's predict these things, or we won't at all, let's rule out this rule from here, because then it's a hindrance. I want to talk about a normal partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u118	I have to agree with you that it would be a good thing for us to predict this right in this law. But this law is generally declarant. He declares politics. And declares the division of responsibility and authority. And the mechanisms for this responsibility will still need to make individual changes to a number of laws. This isn't the last step we're going to take for a state-private partnership. There'll be concessions, there'll be a vote. There will be more, and a number of other laws will have to be voted on. In particular, there will be a great need to take steps to separate the land of state and municipal property that has not been made in these years. So this isn't the last time we go back to this topic. But this declaration is necessary. Otherwise, no private partner will simply come to cooperate with our state if it cannot be guaranteed that the commitments made will endure. I mean, it's more like a declaration that we're going to keep our commitments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, don't you want to vote? It's okay. Yuri Anatoliyovich takes off his repairs. Can we put it to a vote on approval of the draft law? Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs to be revised and re-readed. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on the Basic Principles of the State’s Interaction with Private Partners. [[Registration number 5239]] [[12:51:41]] For 247 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the mechanism for State registration of end-of-householding entities. [[Registration number 4286]] The rapporteur is the deputy chairman of the committee of Xenius Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u120	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill is designed primarily to solve today’s only remaining state registration problem. Today, this procedure is very burdensome, sometimes too bureaucratic. We try to bring it into a more constructive format and introduce the concept of simplified registration of termination, especially when the subject, in a mild sense, disappears, that is, there is no subject, and the founders are no longer responsible for it, and the registration record hangs for years, does not give up the declaration. In fact, we have such misunderstandings when, as if, subjects are many and actually fewer. And we cannot trace the real dynamics of the presence of subjects. So please support, the bill has been worked out, a series of observations, something counted, something not, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, no objection? One of Yuri Carmazin's amendments is out of the question: 9th. Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for reading the bill, I see. It is in the 9th amendment that part of the first article 22 provides for, I propose, in a different edition: “Publication of information from the Single State Register is free of charge and is carried out on the official website of a specially authorized public registration body at the expense of the funds allocated for the maintenance of this body, by ensuring that all Internet users are free of charge throughout the day to the database of all messages submitted to the Single State Register. The messages listed in this article are required to be published on the official website. The basis for publishing messages is to enter the corresponding entry into the Single State Register. Reports are to be published no later than the next working day after the entry into the Single State Register. The information contained in the Single State Register, with the exception of identification numbers, is open for free day-to-day access at the official web portal of a special authorized state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to support this amendment personally, for example, because I am convinced that this is the format to be, but in the process of drafting this law, the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship has assured us that, unfortunately, they cannot yet provide such a format of work with information. I personally believe that it is necessary to reach out to him, but right now, these aspirations are only for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. The committee’s decision led the committee’s deputy head to your acquaintance, that is, to accept it as a law in the second reading. The Chief Legal Authority notes that the bill is being prepared for the second reading. I am voting on the committee's proposal, namely on the adoption of the second reading and the whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the mechanism for the state registration of end-of-households. [[Registration number 4286]] [[12:55:50]] For 332 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine. [[on the powers of the National Communications Regulatory Commission]] [[Registration number 3047]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Transport and Liaison.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Transport and Communications considered at its meeting a draft law amending the Ukrainian Radio and Communications Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 3047]] This bill on the introduction of a sectoral radio frequency law in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Authorisation System in the Field of Economic Activities. In preparing the draft law for second reading, there were only 16 proposals: 7 from the people's deputies Shevchuk and Karmazin, and 2 from the people's deputy Sharov. The Committee considered all the proposals and decided unanimously: to reject Shevchuk's proposals because they effectively annulled the standards adopted by the sessional room in the first reading and send us back to the drafting of the existing law; to take note of the proposal, No. 5 agreed with Igor Fedorovich, it did not insist on its adoption; the proposals of Karmazin were taken into account in part. With regard to the comments of the General Legal Administration. Three of them. Po. Indeed, since the consideration of the draft by the Committee, the Supreme Council has adopted Act 2299, which already takes into account the proposed changes to article 45. It is therefore proposed that the amendments to article 45 should be deleted from the draft bill. Thus, we will exclude conflicts with the law already adopted and take into account. Comments of the Legal Office. The comments of the Administration on section 1, paragraph 2, the Sectoral Committee considers that the relevant rule does not give rise to a violation of the basic law, so defines only the sources of funding for the respective works of the State budget, and whether such funding or the level of funding will in fact be determined by the Budget Act for each subsequent year. The Committee considers that there is no violation of existing legislation in the present case, since the bill refers to the State enterprise of the DDR, rather than to the central authority of the executive branch. The final draft of the bill proposed by the second-reading committee is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Communications Management Commission, the State Communications Administration. The Transport and Communications Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft law on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, we can, on the basis of the committee's recommendations, put up a motion to vote on the adoption of the law. There's a denial about Yuri Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It is an extremely serious Act on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine. We already see what's going on in this area. I think the commission investigators will show a lot more. So my first amendment is to delete paragraph 6 of part two of article 14, which states that setting the size of wages for the issuance of UDF documents of a permissive nature, conclusions on electromagnetic compatibility, operating permits, import abroad for the implementation of radio-electronics and radiation devices. Since, in accordance with part six of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, the size of tariffs, including, and the limits on the conduct of tests or expert examinations, which are the basis for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this rule has to be changed. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. And I based it on another law. I don't understand why the committee didn't take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u129	According to the committee, the author of the proposal did not fully formulate the standard to which it refers. In its current wording, it ends with the expression “unless otherwise established by law”. Accordingly, the bill does not conflict with the law “On the Allowance System” because it proposes that the Act “On Radio Frequency Resource” should determine that the level of payment for the issuance of UDFs is established not by the Cabinet of Ministers but by the NHRIs. The committee proposes not to take into account the offer made by Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u130	I bet on the vote of Amendment 1, by Yuri Karmazin. [[13:01:15]] For-56 No correction supported. What other observations are there, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you to the national deputies who supported it. I'm making an amendment to a friend. “Part four of article 16 of the UDCDF provides services on a paid basis at the expense of the users of the radio frequency resource. A list of the work and services performed by the UDCR shall be approved by the NCRF in its established order.” That's what I quoted. Any expenditure of the state, that's my explanation, on the common needs, the size and purpose of these expenses, is determined exclusively by the Law to the State Budget of Ukraine. In addition, digital foreign language is profitable. Therefore, the State should not bear the costs of calculating networks of digital foreign language and identifying sources of radio equipment in lanes of general use. If such research is needed by a special user, he has his budget, his expenses. And I'm against translating the cost of the state, the cost of commercial enterprises on the shoulders of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u132	According to the committee, this rule does not prejudge the violation of the basic law, since it defines only the source of funding for the work involved, the State Budget. Whether or not there will be such funding and its scope will be determined by the Budget Act for each year. The Committee notes that the stated standard is harmonized with the Television and Broadcasting Act, which provides in article 22, that the cost of drawing conclusions on electromagnetic compatibility needed to create and develop channels of speech is provided for in the State Budget in a separate line of expenditure of the National Television Council. Similar standards are also implemented in many active sectoral and professional laws. The committee recommends that the proposal of Yuri Anatoliovich be disregarded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u133	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:03:29]] For-59 Correction not supported. Dear committee heads! I'd ask you to consider all of Karmazin's amendments to the second reading bill, then we won't have any problems in the session room. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I thank everyone who voted. In fact, you were just arguing for saving government funds, actually. I think we're not doing the right thing right now, but the third amendment concerns part 1 of article 29, where it's about that imports from abroad, the implementation and operation of electronics and radiation devices are being carried out in Ukraine on an arbitrary basis. The relevant licenses shall be granted to the DRC on a payment basis in accordance with the procedure established by the NCD. I suggest you put it this way: “Extra-border imports, implementation, use of radio-electronics, radiation devices are carried out in Ukraine on an arbitrary basis. The corresponding licenses shall be granted to the DRC on a payment basis in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” I mean, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers set this up, because according to part two of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature by central authorities is established by the Cabinet of Ministers for the submission of a duly authorised authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u135	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u136	According to the Committee, the author refers to a rule that applies when the issuance of permits is carried out by the central authority of the executive authority, but does not extend to cases where such documents are issued by other authorities, in this case it is a state-owned enterprise, which is the UDF, rather than a central authority of the executive branch. The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u137	I'll bet on the vote number three, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:05:44]] For-44 Correction not supported. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u138	44, sorry, thank you, Yuri Carmazin, thank you all for supporting me. I would like to propose a part of the first article 41, which is written about electromagnetic compatibility in lanes, the frequency of general use is provided by the UDCR on a pay basis in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The conclusion on electromagnetic compatibility in lanes is provided by the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Approved CEVCs from the electromagnetic compatibility calculation methodology are mandatory for the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the UDF. Since, according to part two of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the central authority of the executive body is established by the Cabinet for the submission of the relevant permit authority, which is in agreement with the authorized authority. Such an order should include a comprehensive list of documents that must be submitted to the holder to obtain a document of a permissive nature, and the duration of the document of a permissive nature, or the unlimited duration of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u139	According to the committee, the UDCR’s conclusion on electromagnetic compatibility is not a document of a permissive nature. Because it does not give the subject the right to continue certain activities in connection with the pursuit of economic activity. This document only testifies to the electromagnetic compatibility of the declared radio frequency with already active electronics. The committee therefore recommends that the amendment of Yuri Anatoliovich be disregarded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u140	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 11 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:07:48]] For-41 No correction supported. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank those who have supported and I think others will read the papers. Part 3 of article 42 “Allowments for the use of the radio spectrum band are issued by the UDF on a pay basis in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a special use radio frequency band is authorised by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Since in accordance with Part 2 of Article 4 of the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, there are two: the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the central authority of the executive body is established by the Cabinet of Ministers for the submission of the relevant permit authority, which is in agreement with the authorized authority. Such an order should include a comprehensive list of documents that must be submitted to the holder to obtain a document of a permissive nature, and the duration of the document of a permissive nature, or the unlimited duration of the document. So I think that the addition to this paragraph will only improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u142	The Professional Committee notes, as in proposal 11, that the norm applies when the issuance of permits is carried out by the central authorities of the executive branch. But it does not extend to cases where such documents are issued by other permitting bodies of the U.D.D.R. is a state-owned enterprise and is not subject to this norm. The committee recommends that the amendment of Yuri Anatolyevich be disregarded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u143	I'm betting on the vote number 12 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:09:44]] For-50 The decision is not taken. So we can put it to a vote, Yuri Anatolyovich? All the adjustments are taken into account. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority has made his remarks to this law that you have on your hands. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Radio Frequency Resources. [[on the powers of the National Communications Regulatory Commission]] [[Registration number 3047]] [[1:10:42]] For 283 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Law on Telecommunications to increase the number of services. [[Registration number 3420]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Vitaly Terentijovich Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The second reading proposes a draft Act amending the Law on Telecommunications in Ukraine. [[on increasing the number of services]] Registration number 3420. The bill is written by me and Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich. The nature of this bill is purely technical and beneficial for mobile subscribers. The bill is designed to introduce services in Ukraine to transfer or preserve subscribers from one telecommunications operator to another, to use personal numbers and to introduce national roaming services. The project takes into account the positive experience of more than 35 countries in the European Union and other countries in the world. These transfer services are the norm of the relevant Directive of the European Union and are recommended for implementation in European cooperative countries. This bill was adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading of a year ago, in June 2009. We had the opportunity to work very closely on the text of the bill, which is now fully balanced and harmonized with the Mintrazweil, the National Liaison Regulation Commission and the Antimonopoly Committee. I would like to remind you that the Bill on the Transfer of Numbers was already adopted by the Supreme Council in 2007 as a whole as a law, with 381 people's deputies voted in favour of this law. But in connection with the reelections, the President was left uncontested, so we introduced a new bill. During the preparation for the second reading of the bill, 28 amendments and comments were received, and the amendments were made by the national deputies of Ukraine: Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, Maruschenko Vladimir Stanislavovich. All the amendments have been very carefully studied, most of them have been taken into account entirely, part of them have been taken into account in an editorial way, not only 4 amendments by the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, who did not fit the concept of the bill or changed its contents, accepted as a basis, are 4, 8, 12 and 27 amendments. In addition, some comments were made by the General Legal Authority. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to accept this bill as a second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the committee, the Chief Legal Authority, made a number of comments. At the same time, the committee believes that it is possible to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the proposal for the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general as a law. I put to the vote this proposal, namely the adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications on increasing the number of services. [[Registration number 3420]] [[13:14:52]] For 329 The law is passed. I would like to announce a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to increase the statutory capital requirements of professional participants in the stock market, a report by the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Igor Mikolajovich Prasolov, please. [[Registration number 2540]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, is invited to your attention by the Second Reading Committee of Finance and Banking, a bill that raises the demands of members of the stock market. The requirements relate to both the size of the statutory own capital and the rules for their implementation. The need for a project is due to certain risks associated with the absence of these requirements, or to the low level of these requirements arising from professional activities in the stock market by unfavorable participants. It is therefore proposed to increase the responsibility of stock market actors in the first place. For example, the project has significantly increased the statutory capital of professional participants in the stock market in some positions. For example, the asset management company was 300,000 euros will be 7 million dollars. The securities dealer, who conducts the marketing, was 600,000 bracelets becoming 7 million bracelets. And so on. It should also be noted that the bill provided for linking the amount of own and statutory capital to those involved in the management and administration of public pension funds. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out separately that this bill and the proposed mechanisms to increase the requirement for stock market participants are also envisaged by the Economic Reform Programme 2010-2014, developed by the Committee on Economic Reforms of the President of Ukraine. All amendments made by the people's deputies to the bill have been taken into account. This bill is supported by the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. There are no comments to the draft by the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council. The Committee, at its meeting on 02 June this year, recommended the adoption of the bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, virtually all the amendments to this bill are included. There is a positive conclusion not only by the committee but also by the General Legal Authority. I propose to vote a second reading and as a whole a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the statutory capital requirements of professional participants in the stock market. [[Registration number 2540]] [[13:18:06]] For 248 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as of persons belonging to them. [[Registration number 3676]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Valérie Baranov. 3676.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, as well as of persons belonging to them. The essence of the bill is that it is proposed when children reach the age of 16 that they be able to put into housing. The Committee on Housing and Utilities has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in second reading and generally as a law. On behalf of the committee, please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, no objection? There's an amendment by Yuri Carmazin, one of the amendments that's out of the question. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have an amendment to Article 7, this is Amendment 2, I call Amendment 2. There's a two-position adjustment. First. This is the new part of paragraph 3, where you can predict the placement of children for parenting, caregiver, foster care, foster parents, foster parents in a children's home, if other family members remain in their apartment. And part three, part three, of article 71, paragraph 3, of this text. If there is no child, children and family members left behind, this residence may be given to another citizen, to add the word here, only on lease until the end of the term of the child’s stay, the children’s home, or until it reaches the full age and return from a relative, caregiver, or caregiver. [[apartments]] In some cases, before schooling in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u151	Please enable Karmazin to finish justifying the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u152	Thank you, there's two adjustments. Thank you. In some cases, before the completion of education in general educational institutions, all types and forms of property, including for citizens who need social assistance and social rehabilitation, as well as vocational or higher education institutions, or until the end of service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. This amendment, honourable national deputies, is intended to enable a child to return and exercise his or her right to housing after the end of his or her term in these places, where I said. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u153	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:22:01]] Z-70. Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons belonging to them]] Registration number 3676. Please vote. [[13:22:40]] For 321 The law is passed. I am announcing before the review a draft law on introduction, a draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the right of a witness to a lawyer]] Registration number 4328. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u154	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Every year, 10 million people are involved in the area of criminal justice in Ukraine. Which of them as the accused, who as the victim, and most of all as the witnesses in criminal matters. Yesterday, in our first reading, we passed a law to all factions that the right to an attorney would be given and suffered, not just by the accused. This bill, which is proposed for second reading, provides for the right of a witness to have his guardian, when questioned as a witness. And so the defined procedural rights of a witness's lawyer, which is equal to the rights of the defendant's lawyer, the suspect. The bill, respected colleagues, received 18 proposals from legal entities, including 17 of them. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. So I ask you to support him as the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, he has one amendment to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u156	She doesn't count alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u157	It is included in part, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u158	One is not listed on page 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u159	Amendment 7 rejected, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u160	On page three. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I thank the Committee for its cooperation, normal cooperation, everything, but there is one amendment: 7th, I ask you to put forward the first paragraph of article 48 as follows: “The defence counsel is obliged to use, as provided for in this code and in other legislative acts, a means of defence for the purpose of determining the circumstances which challenge suspicion or charge, to mitigate or exclude the criminal responsibility of the suspect, accused, accused, convicted, convicted and given the necessary legal assistance and witness.” Why am I writing this? Imagine, there was now a robbery in the Holy District of Labor, a massive amount of money stolen from the police and a criminal case forged to bring out those who are accused, even though they recognized the attackers of the cashiers. The Soviet Union would have been shot a long time ago, and now it is, now. I'm asking Mr. Mogilov to make it happen. Well, if it's written down, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u161	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the committee considered such an interpretation of the protector’s duties unnecessary. At the same time, the 8th Amendment of Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, which gives a thorough description of the attorney’s authority to represent the interests of the witness in the criminal case, is taken into account. Look, Yuri Anatolyevich, you may agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on the vote number. It's okay. Change the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee as a bill amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the right of a witness to a lawyer]] Please vote. [[13:26:52]] For 347 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 218 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the duties of the investigator]] [[Registration number 4284]] The reporter is Vladimir Moisik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u164	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues! There are two laws, 6044 and 4284, which are absolutely identical, so there may be a point to report both of them immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u165	So no, let's do it as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u166	Well, please. Hence, before the second reading, the draft Law No. 4284 on the duty of an investigator to hand over a copy of the material of the case to the accused. Honorary colleagues who have dealt with criminal matters begin each volume with two, three pages of the description, which is where it is in these volumes. The investigator then presented study volumes, but there was no obligation to give a copy of the description, and in the meantime the description that was compiled, and the pages that were in the case, did not match when needed. So we predict today that the defendant is obliged to give him a copy of the material of the case, not of the whole case, but of the description. There are 4 amendments: 2 – accounted for, 2 – rejected because the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are being violated. The rule of law was unwarranted. Please, Your Honor, support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u167	No one insists on their amendments? Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin. I share the whole optimistic approach of the committee, and I would just like to say that there's an amendment that's supposed to be included in the next piece of legislation. Maybe that's true. I don't know about that right now, I don't have a table yet, it's more visible to you, I just wanted to figure out what it was about by admitting it. the fact that the judicial investigation into a case that is to be referred to the prosecution of the accused, the investigating magistrate reports that the victim and his representative of the civil prosecutor, the civil defendant or their representatives are explaining to them their right to know the criminal case and to receive a copy of the material of the case, which the investigating magistrate makes up a protocol or provides a copy of the written report. I've got a record now that it's in Project 6044. If it's really in that project, and we're really going to vote it now, then I don't insist on it. Please confirm this fact to me, or correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u169	Yuri Anatolyevich, I'm going to report the next law, but he's talking about the exact same thing. Here we say that the investigator is obliged to give the accused a copy of the material. In this law, which will be reported, 6044, the investigator is required to provide the victim with a copy of the description. That's the whole law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending article 218 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the duties of the investigator]] [[Registration number 4284]] Please vote. [[13:30:47.]] For 338 The law is passed. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 217 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, registration number 6044. [[on the duties of the investigator]] The reporter is Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u171	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Actually, I reported this law in the previous one, too, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u172	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u173	This was the case with the accused, and this was the case with the victim, who would have the same right to request a copy of the criminal record. Please be supportive. The rule of law was unwarranted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u174	I'll bet you a vote. Change the vote. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the positive activities of the committee in this part, but I would like to point out that we have a totally unequal position of the victim and the accused in the process, who has suffered worse all the time. And in this case, my number two amendment, which says that if the victim or his representative or a civil prosecutor, because there are anecdotic situations in the matter that you read when people turn, he asks for a copy of the material. Of the materials, they have the right to do so. And you're subtracting, so you're partially just counting. It's just a description, that's all. Why? If he says, I'll pay for it, I'm afraid these materials will disappear later, which will fake. Why do we not want to protect the victim because he is in a worse position? We have more victims dozens of times than the defendants. We look after the defendants, and the victims don't. I want to hear you and the constructive position of the committee to see in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u176	Yuri Anatolyevich, exactly the opposite. Yesterday’s law on the right of the victim’s mother to defend him will provide him with the right to get acquainted with the material of the matter to all, and to have copies of the case. This is a very different matter for the victim to have a copy of the material of the case. But other cases, you're a former judge too, are victims who are affected by ten pages of the case, and the case has 45 volumes. So why would he publish volumes that don't really apply to him? The committee took such a stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin. Take it off the vote. Then let's work faster. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the 217 Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine concerning the duties of the investigator, please vote. [[Registration number 6044]] [[13:33:53]] For 101 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. [[Registration number 6044]] [[13:34:16]] For 132 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on international cooperation]] Registration number 4438. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Valeriy Ananiyovich Bebelz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is given to the second reading of a bill amending operational search activities. During the preparation for the second reading, six amendments to the bill were made to the profile committee, of which four are included and two are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u179	Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone. Are you insisting on your two amendments to the unaccounted for?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. This is about amendment number two. Part of the first article 5 prime. I'd like to put it this way. Cooperation in the field of operational search activities between operational units is defined in Article 5 of this Act and relevant branches of law enforcement bodies of other States and international law enforcement agencies are carried out on the basis of Ukraine's international treaties. After removing the words “or establishing acts and rules of international law organizations to which Ukraine is a member”, because they may be required to implement the relevant authorities and special departments of Ukraine only after the conclusion of international treaties and the accession of Ukraine to the international law enforcement organizations concerned, because otherwise we can not carry out the international organizations that are currently under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u181	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! The problem is why this amendment is rejected. The fact is that it is largely inconsistent with the concept of the bill itself. The fact is that in 2004 Ukraine ratified the United Nations Convention, which envisions the implementation of appropriate functions for the interaction of Ukraine’s law enforcement systems with police organizations and offices in many countries. So I think in this case we should agree with the position of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u182	I'll bet on the vote number two, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:36:50]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Amendment number four Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank all those who supported, the point is that I am concerned that we can make decisions and organizations that we are not members of, so we had to make such a reservation. I have not done so, so I ask you to change the wording, paragraph 3 of Article 7, to put it this way: “To carry out within my competence requests from law enforcement authorities of other States, or international law enforcement organizations, in order and on the basis of the laws and international treaties of Ukraine”. After removing the words “or the established acts and rules of the international law enforcement organizations to which Ukraine is a member”, since they may be required to implement the relevant authorities and special departments of Ukraine only after international agreements on Ukraine's accession to international law enforcement organizations have been concluded. In another order, if someone joins an organization at a time of drunkenness, it is not compulsory for Ukraine. You understand what I'm saying, you're a general! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u184	Yuri Anatolyovich! I understand your position, as it were, but absolutely a life example, we have to be guided by the Statute of the International Criminal Police Organization, its statute. The simplest example and the most recent example is the kidnapping of the painting from the Odessa Museum of Karavajo "Kissing Judah". So in this case, Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, based on Interpol's statutory conditions, worked, went to Berlin, worked with operatives, non-voice workers, and so forth. So you can't rule out this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u185	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 Yuri Carmazin. I've already put it down. Vote. [[13:38:54]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the conclusion of the committee: To be accepted in the second reading and generally as a law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u186	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, there is one moment that I would like to pay attention to. The point is that in preparation for second reading there were serious differences between scientists and practitioners regarding the 20th paragraph of Article 8 of this Law. In this case, there were proposals, in order to save the bill itself and to adopt it as a law, paragraph 20, is Amendment 6, to exclude it from the body at all. And take it, of course, now. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, this was your offer, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u187	One minute, let's not do this anymore. I'm going to put to the vote a motion to remove Amendment 6 from the body of the law. Please vote. [[13:40:18]] For 266 Decision taken. So we can put it on the vote as a whole. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs substantial work. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4438]] [[13:41:03]] For-286 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u188	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u189	I suggest you consider, Your Honor, the draft Civil Status Act. [[Registration number 2673]] So who from the committee will report on legal policy issues? [[So what are we gonna do, put it off or what?]] Dear colleagues! There are two proposals here or immediately put to the vote a committee proposal, and it is to accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. There are some comments from the General Legal Authority, if there are no warnings, let's go. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u190	So we have to wait, we could take a break. Please report by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u191	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Ukrainian national deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions, representative of the President in Parliament. Dear colleagues! We came up with a very important bill, which could also be considered reformative, and it was prepared by the government, with the previous government, already discussed in the first reading, as discussed in the second reading. But it was returned for processing for second reading. I would especially like to thank those national MPs who participated in the drafting of the amendments to this bill. Since the registration of civil status acts actually applies to every family, every person and how such registration will be carried out, how the procedures provided for in the law will be convenient for the consumer of these services, i.e. the citizen, and will depend on the attitude and trust of Ukrainian citizens in all the authorities. So this bill is extremely important, and I hope that we are fast, dynamic, but at the same time, in principle, when we consider all the amendments, we will adopt it in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you, we can move on to the amendments. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, will you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. 1 amendment rejected. Is Pisarenko insisting on her? No, it's not. Yeah, 4th, 5th doesn't insist. 10 revisions. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to say that it is Yuri Romanovich who is one of the examples of how this committee should be reconciled with those of the legislative initiative. I would only ask for 29 amendments to be made by Yuri Romanovich now. This is page 16, Amendment 29. By the way, my amendment is similar to the amendment of the people's parliament of Krutza, which is a 30th amendment. We reserve that one of the spouses who wants his premarital name to be assigned to him should declare it to the public authorities during the state registration of the dissolution of the marriage. So this "should" which is written here should be changed to this word "may" which gives the opportunity and the right of a citizen, but does not oblige him how you do it now, because he can do it later, and in doing so, that is, he needs to change the word "may" here. Yuri Romanovich, look closely, I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u194	And so, dear colleagues, we are obliged to consider the adjustments that our colleagues insist on. And that's why I wanted to ask Yuri Anatolyevich that this amendment was proposed and, firstly, the second reading was rejected. And I'll give you some arguments as to why it was rejected. In breaking up a marriage, there is a question about the next name of a person who would be assigned to the registration of a marriage. Therefore, in order to properly register his or her personal right to a surname, a person should declare it, since a member of the registration department is not entitled to the identification of his or her own name. The definition of a name when a marriage is terminated solely by a person's will, in no way deprives him of any further change in that name, calling for a change in registration, is article 16 of the project. Besides, it's just...
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u195	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u196	As for me, they're convincing. But you understand what the word “may” differs from, because then there is no rigid imperative. On the one hand, we're here to make sure there's no charges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, well, it's obvious here, I would ask you not to have a discussion. If a family is divorced and one of them wants to get his last name back, he should declare it. What is "can he declare"? Maybe he will, and he won't be told anything about it. Why are we having a discussion here? That is the right, he must, and he has the right, if he does not want, he does not claim, and all things.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u198	Dear friends, that's what normal sounds like. That the employee of the relevant body should act exclusively within the limits of those given the law. And it's working. If there's no statement, he leaves his last name. And if a person wants to change his name, he should make an appropriate application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u199	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u200	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Well, unfortunately, it's not like that. And I think we need to be more careful about the wording here. In the text, which just read by a respected colleague, the report is, not by RAGsu’s employee, but by the person who breaks up the marriage. In this way he is appointed by law. I think in this case it's about the law, not the duty, because the law determines that it should always do it otherwise it violates the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u201	It is written in this way: If he wants to restore his last name, he must. That's what language is for. I'll read it to you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u202	Yes, read, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, read how this article will sound, this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u203	This is how it will sound: “One of the spouses who wishes to re-establish his pre-marital name must declare this in the civil registration body during the state registration of the dissolution of the marriage.” It's all right. What do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u204	Absolutely fine. I mean, as a RACS employee, he'll know that he wants to return or he wants to leave. It works like this: if there's no statement -- he leaves his last name in the marriage, if a person wants to get back -- then he has to write the right one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, in order to normalize this problem. Why are you raising your hand? Is this your amendment or what? That's why. You're right. It's your day off today. Please. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 29 Yuri Karmazin and the Supreme Council will determine that and that's all. [[13:49:54]] For-31 All right, that's not a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u206	All of it. Let's move on. Although I can comment, but... You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law in the second reading and generally as a law. No other warnings? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u208	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u209	There's a note in the General Legal Office. I'm putting you on the spot. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Civil Status Act. [[Registration number 2673]] Please vote. [[13:50:40]] For 288 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[on the reconciliation of individual positions]] [[Registration number 6214-2]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Michael Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u210	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The aim of the bill is to remove disagreements among the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Supervisory in the Field of Economic Activity, to set a deadline for the removal by operators of requirements for the imposition of a rule on the exercise of the functions of State control only by central executive authorities and the reduction of the number of control authorities, and to eliminate the occurrence of life-threatening cases in the workplace. [[control]] The bill is fully operational. And what I'm saying is, unlike the bills that were being considered, the Chief Legal Authority has enacted the bill without any notice. Please support the committee's decision. The only thing is the government's request to re-vote Amendment 10, re-vote Amendment 10. And then vote on the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u211	Thank you. Xenia Leapina. No, let's start with that. 1st Amendment, Yuri Carmazin stands first. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Are you insisting on her? Paragraph two.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u212	Yuri Carmazin. We have a similar amendment, I'd like Kseniya Mikhailn to justify it, let the woman do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u213	Please, Xenia Mikhail microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u214	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, as an opposition I can now keep silent, vote as it is, and I want to see how you're going to rule. And that's the whole point of our amendment. The government proposed to create a single control body for each ministry. I'm giving you an example. There's sanitation at Minhvod's -- it's a control and there's drug control -- it's a control. These are two different organs with two different control objects and two different control tasks. You suggest now, if you don't consider our amendment, make it the only control, it's not going to be the sansation, it's not going to be the state of health, it's not going to be the drug control. And I'm not talking about the Department of Transportation. I'm not talking about other ministries. Well, you can't be absurd. Well, we don't care how the state lives, you know?Oh, my God! You want to make your mistakes, do it. But don't destroy the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u215	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on amendment number one. [[13:53:48]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Amendment 6, Xenia Lapina. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Then let's move on. Amendment 8, are you insisting on it? And there's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You didn't listen to Kseniya Mikhailuna for nothing. Because now you're putting up a situation where the government authorities can't work. It's not in the state you've made up your mind. Well, I think there's a representative of the President here. And maybe it'll be vetoed, we'll see, on that kind of thing. My amendment 8 is to exclude sub-paragraph 5. The point is that the prescribed statute or other orderly document, during which the subject must be removed from the law, must be at least 30 working days, unless otherwise provided by law. What if someone wanted to remove it sooner? Why are we writing this down? So I'm asking you to throw this item away, sub-item simply. And clear the law. These few things, I don't take the word of law anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u217	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, this amendment can be supported by Yuri Anatoleevich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u219	I'm voting on the amendment of Yuri Carmazin number 8. [[13:55:30.]] For 219 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-01-m0.u220	I'm voting on the motion to return to the consideration of Amendment 8. [[13:55:54]] For 290 Back to the repairs. I now place my vote on Amendment 8. [[13:56:14]] For 299 Correction counted. And there was a proposal to vote, or amendment 10 to Xenia Lupina. It is counted, but since there is insistence, I am voting on the confirmation of Amendment 10. [[13:56:47]] For-51 The amendment is not accepted. Dear colleagues, all other amendments have been voted on. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[on the reconciliation of individual positions]] [[Registration number 6214-2]] Please vote. [[13:57:26]] For 235 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. And I would like to point out that today we have decided to complete the consideration of the issues set out in the July 1st, 2010 schedule.
