ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:00:53]] Cards were registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, you and I at the Conciliation Council have decided that at 16 hours the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hear information from the Attorney-General's Office and the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the circumstances of detention and taking place in the custody of the former head of the Government Customs Service of Ukraine, Anatolia Viktorovich, right? And the First Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich, and Vice-President of the Security Service of Ukraine, Porodsko Volodymir Mihajlovich, arrived at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the Security Service is in a foreign assignment, leading to the knowledge of those who will ask the right question. The head of Ukraine’s Chief Investigative Bureau of Security, Ivan Mikhajlovich, is involved in the consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, it's suggested this way. Well, I'm reading what I've been trained to do. Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, let's take it easy. Let us therefore invite the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Viktor Pavlovich, to brief us. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, he's doing his job. Dear colleagues, the main thing is that you all know Victor Pavlovich and will receive comprehensive information. Victor Pavlovich, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u2	Good afternoon! To the knowledge of the people’s deputies: the first deputy not acting, since the Attorney General of Ukraine is present at the meeting held by the President, who had previously been scheduled, is a public hearing under the constitutional rights of citizens. It's very familiar. Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The reported criminal case, which concerned national MPs, was violated on June 8th of this year by the fact that NAC Naftogaz Ukraine’s undeclared officials had been destroyed by the abuse of their service status of foreign property, which was particularly large, namely 11 billion cubic metres of natural gas, worth 33 billion 880 million dollars, belonging to Roskreenergo, on the basis of the crime envisaged in article 5 of article 191 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, i.e. the acquisition, loss of property or the seizure of property by this route of abuse of service status. On June 23, 2010, the same body of pretrial investigation filed a criminal case against Makarenko Anatolia Viktorovich on the grounds of the crime envisaged in section 2 of article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on "Service Carelessness", which is integrated into a single implementation with the previous one. In accordance with the requirements of article 100 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, the prosecutor's supervision of the legality of a criminal case during the period of time has come to the Attorney-General's Office with a copy of the order for a violation of the case. A study of the material of the case has examined the legality of this decision and the availability of reasons and reasons under article 94 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. The Attorney General's Office agreed with the conclusion of the pretrial investigation body that the illegal activities of the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and the State Customs Service in the person of its former head, Makarenko, who, in his office on 27 February 2009, ignored the absence of legal grounds, had entrusted the head of the energy regional customs with a customs office of 11 billion cubic metres of natural gas, with 33 billion dollars worth of money in underground storage and belonging to RosUkrenergo, thereby contributing to a foreign company of property damage, which in 250 billion and more times exceeds the untaxed minimum income of citizens, is a serious consequence. Moreover, the decision of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce's Arbitration Institute of 8 June this year fully confirms the existence of the alleged losses of Rosukre Energo. According to article 41 of the Constitution, the right to private property is inviolable. Article 346 of the Ukrainian Civil Code provides for grounds for termination of property rights. It is not seen from the materials on which the criminal case has been committed that Rosukrenerego has waived ownership of it. Also, the absence of Rosukrenerego's refusal to pay the price of the gas supplied to it by Watt Gazprom. Thus, the criminal case concerning Makarenko has been violated in accordance with the requirements of part two of article 94 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which contains the signs of a crime envisaged in part two of article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code – “Service negligence that has caused serious consequences”. The criminal case is in the conduct of the judicial investigation bodies of the Ukrainian Security Service in accordance with article 112, part 5, of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, since if crimes under article 367 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code have been established during the investigation of a criminal case under article 191 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the judicial investigation is carried out by the body that has committed the offence. On June 23, 2010, a decision was made by the Ukrainian Security Service investigator to detain Makarenko in the order of articles 106, 115 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, and a copy of the detention protocol came to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine during the period of 24 June 2010. On the same day, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine received a report on the selection of a precautionary measure to ensure that suspect Makarenko was taken into custody in order to prevent attempts to escape the investigation and the court, to prevent the establishment of the truth in a criminal case, to ensure that the procedural decisions were implemented, taking into account the fact that the crime he committed was suspected of foresight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u3	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u4	Three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u6	This submission was studied in the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, discussed at an operational meeting with the investigators and management of the Directorate-General of Security and agreed with the Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine Blazhivski. Taking into account the availability of operational information on the possible removal of Makarenko from the investigation. The Order of the Pecher District Court of Kiev of 24 June of this year satisfied the filing of the investigator and, in relation to Marenk, a precautionary measure of keeping the watch has been chosen. Thus, the court also supported the position of the investigation. In doing so, the court dismissed Makarenko’s concern about passing it on to the public. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In respect of the will of the people’s deputies, I must be guided by article 387 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which is about the non-disclosure of the evidence of pretrial investigation. Therefore, the information provided on this matter is comprehensive. In addition, in the criminal case, there are materials with the phrase “Temno” in it. And the criminal case is assigned to the charter of secrecy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Victor Pavlovich. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Steshenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u8	Please give Oleg the word. Give Oleg the can, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u9	Oleg Laschka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u10	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'm calling the reporter, the attorney general's first deputy. A few questions. First. You just said that the Stockholm arbitration court's decision confirmed Makarenko's guilt. Please tell me, have you personally seen this decision, is it in the material of a criminal case, with whom it is legalized, who has certified it, and so on, that is, when it was obtained, and so on? If you refer to him, where is the decision? And if there is an official translation of it, there is an opportunity for us to get to know it. I hope you haven't been able to assign him the "Temno" term yet. The second question. What are the reasons for Makarenko's arrest, because according to article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Code, you should have had sufficient reason to believe that the suspect would not evade the investigation. What are some of the reasons why you might have set it up in an operational way?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u11	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u12	And last time, Mr. Victor Pavlovich, we, as a group of national MPs, signed up for Macarenko's takeover, you made a mistake when you said that the court rejected Makarenko's trouble, it was the concern of the national MPs. And we turn to the Attorney General's Office, to the Security Service, on an offer to choose a precautionary measure for Makarenko not to be involved in depriving him of his will, and to release him under the notice of the Ukrainian National Deputies. And please answer my questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u13	Thank you. The materials of the criminal case include the decision of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. It's a translation decision and it's in criminal records. That's the first question. I told you in my information about the motives and circumstances of the arrest of the suspect Makarenko. All the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure that are defined for the custody of a suspect, who is under investigation, is the right of investigation, the procedural actions of the investigation and the Attorney General's Office of the Offences have not been found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u14	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u15	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Victor Pavlovich! I've been reading all the material you've read. Regrettably, this is just a decree of violation and a decree of precaution. At the same time, there are now over a million outstanding decisions in Ukraine. And our justice is about to be executed by the Stockholm Court of Arbitration, it's shameful, you know why? Because it's not legalized in our country yet, you know that, it's not recognized. Has the Office of the Attorney General studied the circumstances that were reported in the media regarding the refusal to defend the interests of the state there in Stockholm, in fact against the official crime committed by the highest officials of the state. That's the first one. And the second. What kind of operational material is that when a person comes in? An honest officer comes in for questioning himself, he's being taken in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't want you to think that only the materials of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce's arbitration institute would be suspect Makarenko, arrested, taken into custody. I've already said that there are other materials, and now I can say that these are the materials of the Audit Authority and these are other materials that were based on crime, interrogation and detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u17	Sergey Podgorny, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u18	Please give the floor to the national MP Mishchenko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u19	Sergei Mishchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear Victor Pavlovich, we know all of you as a professional prosecutor and in the prosecutor's office, not only are you respected in the prosecutor's office, but I will only have professional questions for you two. First, we realized that the Ukrainian Security Service was investigating the case, and the prosecutor's office was in charge of the case. So from this point of view, I understand that it was violated by 191 articles concerning Vienna. And in this situation, all of the investigations of this case were then revealed to be 367, i.e. a negligence in Makarenko. On what grounds are they investigating because Makarenko refers to the officials of the first category, namely, the prosecution. And no one else has the right to investigate this matter. And the second question is that the article “Graveness ” does not refer to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u21	Finish the question, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u22	Service negligence does not refer to serious and particularly serious crimes. And to be honest, I don’t remember being arrested. Will the oversight body look at these two questions from a professional point of view, not from any other point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u23	Thank you. The Attorney General's Office is only professionally looking at this situation and explaining, in fact, article 191 in Part 5 is an alternative, it is investigated by the prosecution's authorities, the Security Service and the investigation of the militia. It was violated in fact, for 191 Part 5 was violated by facts, not against which person. In the course of the investigation of the actual criminal case, another criminal case 367 was committed on Makarenko’s suspicion of committing the crime. Therefore, these two criminal cases are united and, according to Ukrainian legislation, as one criminal case, may be investigated by the Ukrainian Security Service investigative. You know very well there are many legal professionals here that the Criminal Procedure Code predicts who and under what circumstances can be detained. Makarenko is exactly the person who according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u24	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u25	The law allows for detention and for taking into custody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u26	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u27	Thank you. The word to the national deputy of Aeksandrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u28	Alla Alexandrovska, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u29	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Victor Pavlovich, I have no doubt that as a highly professional lawyer, you respect the law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. But you know, this is my question. We are surrounded by millions of people in Ukraine, at the time of the privatization of the land, the dispersion of the colchuses, the property of the colchuses, which was also hundreds and dozens of billions of bracelets, and it was attributed and people were injured. All my appeals, such as the law enforcement deputy, including the prosecutor's office, for criminal proceedings to be initiated to be investigated? I'm told the same thing, let them go to court. And what we have in our courts on these matters is understandable. Why is the Office of the Attorney-General not engaged in this mass incursion of Ukrainian citizens? Why aren't you dealing with this? Why are you dealing with the Firthash issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Attorney General is also involved in these matters. Both the tests, and the tasks of the monitoring authorities on these tests, and the acceptance of controlling material, criminal delinquency, investigation, supervision of these criminal cases. And I wouldn't want this hall to have such a vision today that the Makarenko case is just a precedent. That's not true. And we can present to each of you tomorrow, even today, those statistics that say that people were arrested on such criminal matters, they were condemned, and those judgments came into force. So I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to determine that this is not a precedent in this matter, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u31	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u32	Andrey Pavlovski, please give the floor to the national deputy Roman Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u33	Roman Zabzaluku, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u34	I have two questions. First. Well, of course, Makarenka's arrest was authorized by the Cave Court of Kiev, while Articles 37, 42 KPC provide for the jurisdiction of the court either at the crime scene or at the place where the pretrial investigation body is located. That is, either at the site of the holding house in the Holy District, or at the location of the BPO in the Shevchenk district. Why, then, did the Cave Court consider the case? That's the first question. And the second question. Just recently, the ex-national deputy of Portnow, who is currently working at the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, has publicly accused the citizen of Horoshkowski of his latent attitude towards the raiding of the Inter Channel and the falsification of documents against the late owner of Plužnikov. Has the Office of the Attorney General responded to these allegations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u35	On the first question. In fact, legislation defines the comment you just said. But I'm drawing your attention, national MPs, that the criminal case is a secret matter, it's a secret matter, and it's the Cave Court, and it's only the Pecher Court that appointed judges who have access to covert cases and all the materials of secrecy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u36	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Victor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. Victor Pavlovich, if you have everything, I will thank you then. Yes, thank you. In order to provide information on this issue, I invite Vice-President of the Security Service of Ukraine, Mr. Volodimir Mihajlovich. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! As noted earlier, Makarenko Anatoly Viktorovich was detained by an investigator in the Ukrainian Security Service on June 23, the current year as a suspect in a criminal case that was violated in criminal case number 558, on the fact that the abuse of foreign property was particularly large, that is, on the basis of the signs of the crime provided for in part five of article 191 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. On the same day, according to the requirements of criminal and procedural legislation, his interrogation was conducted as a suspect in the presence of a lawyer. Similarly, the detention was carried out with the participation of a lawyer. During these investigations, any complaints from Makarenko and Sweethead's investigators did not come to light, as evidenced by the protocols. The second part of article 106 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which was directly referred to by other parties to the trial as a person who had committed socially dangerous illegal acts, provided a procedural basis for deciding whether to apprehend a suspect in the criminal case. On June 24, the Pecher District Court of Kiev picked up a precautionary bailout for suspected Makarenko. The procedural basis for this decision, as indicated directly in the Pecher Court ruling and in the light of the provisions of Criminal Procedure Law, has been the suspicion that it would commit a crime for which a penalty may be imposed under the law, namely the deprivation of liberty for more than three years. I will point out that the court in its ruling also stated that given a certain social status and the position of the suspect, it has the opportunity to influence the conduct of the pretrial investigation in the criminal case, which was determined by the court. For the time being, the criminal investigation in criminal case number 558, in which the criminal case has been committed against only four persons, has not changed the status of Makarenka, and remains a suspect and has not yet been brought before him, is ongoing. This case is supervised by the Attorney General’s Office. No specific comments were received on the violation of the legislative requirements in the course of specific investigations by members of criminal justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u40	Thank you. Questions? Please sign up, Your Honor. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u41	Yuri Carmazin. I have such a question, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. It consists of two. The first question is why the task of President Yanukovic of Ukraine, who said: Find out where the gas went. And now the answer, and the gas was nowhere to be found, is that it's supposed to be in Rossukr Energo. Shahrai, I repeat, by the way. The second answer you need for the security team to give. And there's obviously going to have to be someone on the force to be held accountable. And the answer to this question is: “And who was accompanying the Stockholm Institute case, who was accompanying, who was conducting counter-intelligence, who was overseeing those decisions that were made, why were the State’s interests currently not protected, and why were they put on their heads?” So it seems to me that you need to examine while the person is still suspected, apologize, release him. I have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u42	Finish the question, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u43	I'm done, thank you. I have a question: "Do you have these three very important questions in mind, do you perhaps find that there is a certain interest in the management of the service with the same Fertash or with “Roskreenergo” and so on, does it bother you?" Please tell me. And perhaps for objectivity it was still necessary to refer the matter to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, as Justice Minister Mishchenko spoke here today, because obviously so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u44	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u45	Thank you for asking. You know that the Security Service conducts investigations only in criminal matters that are determined by its subordination in accordance with article 112. We're in this situation where we have people who are vulnerable. If a decision is made to refer the matter to another investigative body, we make the decision. To date, the attorney - general’s first deputy argued why the case is now in the Ukrainian Security Service. I want to say that we looked quite carefully at the question that involved a person’s status as the first category. The point is that legislation clearly defines: it takes time. Today, this person is not occupied. Believe me, that was the subject and that was the question. And what I'm saying is that today, in a criminal case, all the circumstances that are being investigated are being investigated by the units that are doing the search and search.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u46	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u47	and all the other circumstances involved. As for the Stockholm Court’s ruling, I want to assure you that the judicial investigation will only take them to the legal level. Today, this decision is only relevant to one qualified situation, namely, the consequences that are necessary for the crime provided for in article 367, yes, and to this day, the consequences of the decision and other consequences, namely, the task of harming the image of Ukraine. You know perfectly well as a lawyer that the consequences are material and not material. But in the final analysis of whether these circumstances are properly or wrongly qualified, they can only be judged. To this day, they are thoroughly identified in the course of a pretrial investigation into the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u48	Yes, Antonina Boloura, BUT faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u49	Antonina Bolura, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. You filed a criminal case on June 8th. At that time, the court’s decision had not yet been published. And so far the court's decision is illegal because it's not legalized. On the basis of what documents have you drawn such conclusions as you are now talking about? On the basis of what documents are these charges brought? So there's the original documents, there's the verification materials that they were checking with? What were you driving at all? Now you're saying you're defending Ukraine's interests. It's even hard to imagine that. So let the person go, protect the honor of Ukraine, Ukrainian interests, and Ukrainian people. Because such a decision will cause great damage to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u50	Thank you for asking. Of course, in the course of a criminal case, the reasons and reasons for making a procedural decision were taken. And these reasons are clearly stated in the case file, all the materials that contain this data are kept in criminal custody. Unfortunately, I can't say exactly what particular documents and what data contain these reasons, because this would be a violation of the secret of the trial, I don't have the right to do that, but believe me, all of these materials are presented to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. They've been thoroughly analyzed when deciding whether to agree with the decision to break a criminal case or to abolish it, they're all in criminal records. And I would like to point out once again that not only has the decision of the court, which has already been highlighted, been taken into account. More loyally, when a criminal case was committed, it could not be accepted at all. Finally, I would like to point out that the existence of a crime composition is necessary to make it possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u51	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u52	What the hell is going on here? In order to break a criminal case, there is a need for signs of crime. Regrettably, they are not in the process of determining what the set of these signs should be. Yes. And the decision has been made by the investigator in accordance with the requirements of the CPC.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u53	Andrew School, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear Mr. Porodyko, please tell me what kind of social danger this is. The article 191 of the Criminal Code and Makarenko was violated by Didenko. [[Article 367]] Jake. What damage was caused to the State of Ukraine? Because the Security Service you're representing here and the head of the Missing Persons Security Service is making sure that no damage is caused to the state. The Ukrainian state was given 11 billion cubic metres of gas because of their actions, which became the property of the state and your actions. After your actions, these 11 billion will become the property of a private company. Please explain to me what the role of the Security Service is: to protect the interests of the Ukrainian State or to protect interests, as a representative of the Attorney General's Office, a foreign company, spoke to us here? I'd like to know. Because, of course, private property is inviolable. But you represent, not the protection of private property, but state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u55	Thank you for asking. As you well know, today, due to the changes that have taken place in the legislation of an independent Ukrainian state, property does not divide. This earlier Criminal Code provides for responsibility for trespassing on state property, which was much higher than trespassing on personal property. Today it's a matter of trespassing on someone else's property, on someone else's property. And it doesn't matter whose property it is. As far as damage is concerned. I've already said that damage is material. If a person is admitted to the victim or if the victim is a State and a civil prosecutor is admitted, then the damage is measured in material terms. They are clearly defined in the Criminal Code. But besides that, there's also damage to the non-proper character that sometimes cannot be measured by any number or amount. And that regret, I said, is that in the decision of the court that there is, it says here that the damage is done to the interests of the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u56	National Deputy Tishchenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u57	I'd like a word with Oleg Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u58	Oleg Lazko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u59	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. You know, I'm absolutely sure that after a while you'll be here, or you'll be standing with Mr. Pschenka, or your successors who will tell the exact opposite. As soon as the political situation changes. You will close the case again, tell them that there is no crime and you will not even apologize to the person and to the people who are suffering. But I'd like to ask you this question. Here you are referring to a Stockholm Court ruling that is not legalized in Ukraine. How can you do this? Where is it, by what Ukrainian court is it legalized? That's the first one. The other one. Mr. Pshonka said it was a secret. On what basis did you assign the code of secrecy to the matter? If you're saying that Makarenko and others have caused damage to Fertash's company, 11 billion gas is out there doing something about why it's a secret matter? You're going to be in the same secret five billion dollars that you're going to be giving to Firthash and to the companies, taking it out of the budget, from a citizen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u60	Thank you for asking. With regard to the circumstances in which it is a secret matter, you know that if there is one material medium of classified information in a criminal case, the criminal case is also provided with a “secret” term. I want to say that this question is not about the particular gas you are talking about, this is about the sphere of the economy, and this information is classified according to a set of information that constitutes a state secret, which is based on the State Secret Act. Moreover, this information does not refer to the sphere of public security and has been secreted by security experts, but by experts of the relevant authorities, so they are in a criminal case and the investigator can neither dissipate nor expel them. I also have no right to say specifically what this information is, but believe me, it concerns the economic issues of our state, our treaties, our stocks. This is all provided for in the R & D in economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u61	Thank you, too, Vladimir Mikhailovich, sit down, time is running out. Dear colleagues! We've accepted the information with you. What about the committee? So what committee did he meet today, from the committee? Let's not be, your honors, wondering what the committee's doing here when we were listening to the information. Dear colleagues! The information is not discussed when we listen to reports, dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter if it is from factions for one minute of our attitude, please. Is there anyone from the Communist faction? None. From the faction of the Party of Regions, no? None. From the Lithuanian Block? None. From the faction, please, Cosemiakin and Wearing continue to work. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! Dear Victor Pavlovich! I want to say that by answering the questions of the national MPs, you weren't entirely honest, because I have cancer. Victor Pavlovich! I have in my hands the ruling of the Pechersky Court and there is no griffin here, you see, no griffin, no more than ten chambers and ten representatives of the media were present at the Cave Court. So it's such a unique secret so Ukrainian, that's the first. And secondly, you weren't being honest again when you said that the Didenck case was intact, it was broken about Didenck, and the professional thing was second. And the third, distinguished lord of the active coalition, is that the main goal of this group, the group of so-called Fertash, Boyka, Ljovczyn, the hands of Horoshkowski, is to take the following action by September 1. This is the decision of the court, the Ukrainian court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u63	Please finish, 20 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u64	Immediately get a court ruling on why they are in such a hurry, because they need to abolish all legal acts of “Naftogazu, ” as well as to abolish all acts that have been taken by customs. In fact, the court of Shevchenkov declared all the actions of the customs officers legal just a year ago. So today they're going to legalize their entire scheme, they're going to produce $5 billion or 11 cubic meters of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u65	Thank you. Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I feel like I'm having a rainy day. I want to remind you that about a year and a half ago we had a similar situation when the first deputy of the energy customs was detained, and again, it caused quite widespread indignation. I can only say that a little more competent representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Security Service answered questions raised by the people's deputies. But I'm drawing your attention, gentlemen, right now I'm telling you that there are a few circumstances involved. First of all, the article provides useful motives for the accused or, in this case, for the suspect. Actually, you haven't said a word about it, which is where there are useful motives for the suspect in this situation, but I can't understand it for myself. Secondly, I would also like to remind you that the very first deputy of the energy customs of Whispering was called to account for 191. The court overturned the measures taken by the prosecutor’s office at the time, more loyally by the Security Service for those reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u67	Come on, 10 seconds, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u68	And thirdly, I'd like to draw your attention to two more circumstances. Did you talk about the Stockholm Court ruling in your case file? Instead, there is no executive letter from the court, which, as the national MPs have already said here, legitimized this decision, which would have been what it was then in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u69	Yes, thank you. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In our view, the fewer policies will enter into the work of law enforcement agencies, the more objective they will work and not serve the interests of individual political forces, but work for the State. I would like to address the leadership of the Office of the Attorney General and the BSS present here and say that they do not consider today's information as part of Parliament's political pressure on them. No, you haven't been stuck in the past few years and the B.S.A., and the Attorney General's Office, you've served the country honestly. And now, work within the framework of the law and beyond, it does you the honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u71	Yes, Your Honor, we have concluded, as you have agreed, that we need to consider this issue now, I thank you for providing information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to consider including in the agenda a number of draft laws so that the committees can prepare them for consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. May I have your attention, Your Honor? I will now put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Administrative Services Act for inclusion in the agenda. Author Valerius Konovaluk, for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:42:32]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Yes. Now I'm putting, honourable colleagues, to the vote, a proposal to include in the agenda of the City Code project. [[Registration number 6400]] [[by the People's Deputies of Serbin, Rybak, Martinyuk, Polachenko, Baranova, Radovtsa]] Please vote. [[16:43:14]] For 331 Decision taken. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decision on recognition in such a way that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees on assigning the appointment of "Ukraine" to a rocket cruiser, "this is a document from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Project 1164, factory No. 2011]] [[Registration number 6357]] Please vote. [[16:43:57]] For 293 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis. [[new editor]] [[drafters of the Bill of People's Deputies of Ukraine Bachejevo and Soroczynska Kirilenko]] Please vote. [[16:44:33]] For 331 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on improving the mechanism of activity]] [[Registration number 6216]] [[drafters of the bill People's Deputies Voropeyev and Maltsev]] [[16:45:10]] For 244 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation Activities in Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine, please be determined. [[Registration number 6488]] [[authors of Gorin, Kulikov and Bodnar]] [[16:45:51]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Xenya Lapina, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u72	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, we are very concerned that today the bill of President of Ukraine 6517 has disappeared. This is the law that President Janukovic tried to correct the mistake and to take away from the Tax Administration the right to enter any enterprise at any time and to question workers about the so-called enforcement of labour legislation. There was the right initiative. Where'd she go? We're worried about President Yanukovic's fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, this bill, proposed by the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, has been called off for further work in order for him to be accepted in the Supreme Council. Yes, dear colleagues, please, please calmly accept what is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of an electronic state registration system for operators]] [[Registration number 6261]] I propose to consider this bill in a simplified manner. [[16:47:38]] For 210 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Trelakov Sergey Ivanovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Xenius Laupin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u74	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s electronic registration laws, designed for the first time to introduce rules aimed at the electronic registration mechanism of legal persons, natural persons, entrepreneurs, including the registration of their installation documents, the registration of the end of the host subject, the filing of reports on receiving information about them electronically. The prism preserves the possibility of carrying out appropriate registration actions by filing documents in paper form. To implement this, the legal framework of the system is to be improved. State registration system. An important point of the bill is the identification of the applicant by allowing it to use a unique software-protected electronic signature, which has been established since 2001 by Ukraine's electronic documents and electronic digital signature laws. The adoption of the bill will simplify all state registration procedures by introducing electronic registration, reducing registration and post-registration procedures. The existence in Ukraine of an electronic state registration system for operators, which is implemented for the implementation of these laws, specified laws on electronic digital signatures, and electronic documentation, will also contribute to bringing the national system of national registration to the level of Europe’s leading countries. That is, the subject of management with the introduction of such a system will not have to run on its own by the six executive organs in order to be accounted for, namely, the six executive organs defined by the laws, that is, it must pass them. And for him, the introduction of the e-registration system will make it happen automatically. In particular, this will reduce the number of registration procedures from 10 to 5-6, which will significantly improve Ukraine's international rating by providing favourable conditions for business development, which determines.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u75	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u76	In addition, the proposed standards for electronic registration are an effective means of resisting such a phenomenon as raiding, since the availability of a scanned copy of the registration case makes it irrelevant to falsify such documents. The electronic state registration system does not preclude the filing, I repeat, of documents on paper. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u77	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Xenia Mikhailna Lapina is from the committee. May I have the committee's opinion, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u78	Thank you, Your Honor. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 12 May 2010 considered the bill. The purpose of the bill is to establish an electronic state registration system in Ukraine to ensure greater transparency of registration processes and to increase safeguards for the protection of legal persons’ property rights. At the committee meeting, the MPs noted that the bill would allow for a substantial reduction in the number of cases where counterfeiting was made necessary for the execution of such or other registrations, would speed up the registration processes, actually make this process more transparent. We support this bill, we recommend that the Supreme Council approve it on a basis, but on a basis, because we still have a number of observations that need to be made before the second reading that needs to be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Who? Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I want to draw attention to the fact that this bill actually has a major positive effect on its own, primarily for entrepreneurs, because it's going to make it possible to shorten the time of registration. However, we would like to make a number of comments and suggestions so that it does not come out of the bill that came out of the electronic reporting of the tax inspection, you remember. When some private business was involved. Rather than simply allow the state to have an acceleration and ease of reporting. As a result, we already know how this happens sometimes. So we'd like to warn these to the second reading that this whole procedure has to be exclusively within the same pay that's being made for non-electronic registration. There must be a choice. The subject himself must decide whether it is a paper or an electronic registration. So we're making it impossible to do some kind of misunderstanding, parasitic business in a state function. This is our primary warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u81	Mikhailo Chechetov. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u82	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to establish an electronic state registration system in Ukraine to ensure transparency of registration processes and to increase guarantees regarding the protection of property rights, property of legal persons and their owners. Therefore, the main task of the bill is to achieve the stated objective by establishing an electronic national registration procedure for legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs, including requesting information from the Single State Register of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs in electronic form. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for further simplification of registration procedures, reduce corruption due to the lack of contact by the applicant with the State registrar and will be an effective response to the so-called raid. Since the counterfeiting of a reflex case will lose its price if it is lost, it will increase the safeguards for the protection of property rights of legal persons and their owners. In addition, it will make it much easier to obtain information from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Business Personalities, making it as operational as possible, thanks to the ability to make requests electronically. The introduction in Ukraine and the electronic state registration mechanism of operators are widely supported by the practice and application of the company’s electronic registration in many countries of the European Union, which has proved to be highly effective. The faction of the Party of Regions proposes to support the bill of an active government in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the draft Law has been discussed. [[Registration number 6261]] The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are consistent with the committee's decision. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the introduction of an electronic state registration system for operators]] [[Registration number 6261]] Please vote. [[16:56:07]] For 238. Decision taken. I announce for consideration the draft Law on the Ordering of the Reporting Mechanism and the Verification of Insurers for the Recruitment and Payment of Insurance Fees for the General State Social Insurance. [[Registration number 6329]] Dear colleagues, the proposal to consider a bill with reduced procedure. Please vote for this proposal. [[16:56:49]] For 205 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Sergey Tretlyaków, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy and Hara Vasil Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u84	Reverend Volodymyr Mihajlovich, prominent national deputies, today there are four monitoring bodies: the State-wide Compulsory Insurance Fund, which conducts up to 497,000 checks of business entities each year. In addition, it is the responsibility of business entities to report a large number of reports to the listed funds. As a result of this situation, business subjects will receive a large number of tests, forms, and reporting to the relevant sites. We propose to simplify the reporting mechanism and to carry out insurance checks on the collection and payment of insurance contributions to the general government social insurance by focusing on the reporting function and carrying out checks on the identified issues in a single supervisory body, the Pension Fund. The problem addressed by the bill is that there are four supervisory authorities in the relevant areas of state social insurance. For example, the Pension Fund: It needs 619,000 reports a month, and the number of checks carried out in 2009, for example, is 58,000. Ukraine’s National Compulsory State Social Insurance Fund in the event of unemployment: it receives 877 thousand reports every quarter, and the number of checks every quarter is 135 thousand and so on. We suggest cutting back on the maximum number of reports and passing it all on to only one body, the Pension Fund. We expect that the reduction in reporting and the reduction in the number of checks will be reduced by five times, leading to a reduction in the level of corruption, the loss of business time, and so forth. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Har Vassil Georgievich. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, during the past sessional week, we have adopted a bill with you on first reading on a single social contribution. [[6525]] It must be said that the Bill 6329 that we are considering today is actually part of the Bill 6525 that we have adopted. It regulates the main idea of simplifying the reporting mechanism and carrying out insurance checks regarding the payment of insurance contributions to general government social insurance and reducing the number of supervisory authorities. That is, such a narrow sector in that broad Law 6525. To this Act, our Committee decided to recommend it to be adopted on first reading, but I wish to say that there are sufficiently serious comments from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which the Committee has agreed with. The Committee proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis and merged with the previously adopted law, and that all the relevant provisions of the Act should be added to the second reading of Bill 6525, which we will consider in the next sessional week. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u87	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss the bill, please register. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Peter Cibenko. Microphone, please. And then Stanislaw Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u88	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, I'd like to continue with what Vassil Georgievicz was talking about right now, which we really did last week. You've been passed the Single Social Contribution Act. I understand that the bill that is now being proposed is autonomous, independent and so forth, but to some extent it is derived from the Single Social Contribution Act, because it offers a number of practical, concrete steps on the way to order, avoid duplication, organize reporting and so on and so forth. So we have to be consistent because we've made this decision to support the idea of a single social contribution, because we've been going to this idea for a long time. I mean, in its own time, there was an experiment on the basis of the Pension Fund of Ukraine about the administration of the pension fund's administration of other insurance funds. And this test has shown effective results, so we have to be, once again, consistent and support this initiative, because it's aimed at sorting out, reducing duplication, sorting out reporting. And that's going to be a step in the way of implementing that law that we voted with you a little bit earlier. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u89	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u90	Lappina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u91	Xenia Leapina, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u92	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” We support this bill in his idea, because it really simplifies to business entities the reporting that is today burdensome and completely unwarranted, because the subject of social taxation is the only one, and we have long talked about it. And that's why reporting on 4 individual funds is in principle more symbolic, but it takes a lot of time from the entrepreneur. That's why we support the bill. But from the point of view of legislative practice, I don't really understand why we should adopt it as a basis today if it's clear that it just needs to be incorporated into the single social contribution law, just as part of the administration of the only social contribution. And it's clear that this is what the Pension Fund of Ukraine is supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare to make a decision. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to be sent to pre-work. I put to the vote the first sentence of the committee on the adoption of a bill on the basis of the draft law on the organization of the reporting mechanism and the conduct of insurance checks on the collection and payment of insurance premiums for compulsory public social insurance. [[Registration number 6329]] Please vote. [[17:04:27]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on accreditation in Ukraine of separate branches of foreign legal persons. [[Registration number 5148, 5148-1]] I'm voting on a motion to review the bills for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:05:07]] For 199 Decision taken. Reporters: Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Trelyaków Sergio Ivanovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Kseniya Mikhailovna Ljapina Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on economic policy for Plitników Alexy Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u94	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In recent times, we have discovered a lie in the Single State Registration System. With a view to halting entry into Ukraine of unauthorized goods, medicines, medicines, harmful wastes, various productions, and so forth, we have prepared such a bill. To date, branches of foreign companies in Ukraine are not regulated at all. But in fact, there are, for example, sanitation facilities in the former countries of the SND, middle-sized firms that bring medicine and so on. Thus, the bill establishes that foreign operators intending to carry out economic activities in Ukraine have the right to open their separate units in Ukraine by accreditation. This has been done in all countries of Europe. The accreditation of separate branches of foreign-owned entities by decision, such as the National Bank, is already carried out by branches of foreign banks, the Ministry of Justice, and the accreditation of the structures of foreign public organizations, and so forth. The bill envisages the creation in Ukraine of a single national system for the registration of legal persons and non-legal persons, including public organizations, based on the principle of a single window. That is, the procedure for accreditation and inclusion of information on separate units in the Single State Register will be carried out according to the principle of a single window. The bill establishes the procedure for the inclusion in the Single State Register of Natural Persons and Individuals of Entrepreneurs of the accreditation of representatives and branches of foreign companies, as well as the decision-making of their activities, including the judicial decision. This will help to provide legal, natural persons with reliable information about such units that operate on our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u95	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u96	In this way we will create a single state registration system for all the subjects working in our territory. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u97	Thank you, sit down, please. Kseniya Mikhailna, please have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u98	Thank you, fellows of honor! Indeed, there is a problem today. In fact, foreign entities work in Ukraine because of their representations that do not have legal status and thus have become out of all legalization procedures that exist in Ukraine. This is a problem that needs to be addressed urgently. But the question is, How do we solve this problem, whether we need to legalize or lend? The government suggests that the representation itself be accredited. In my bill, the fundamental difference is that I propose legalizing or accrediting, actually, an entity that exists on the basis of the rights of another state in Ukraine. Because representation is not a legal person and does not have its own subjectivity. In other words, who is responsible for the actions that will take representation in Ukraine? The parent company is responsible because it has no representation of its own rights. In fact, if we go the way the government has proposed today, that means we give representation to the subject, it will act in fact as a legal person, even though we do not give it the status of a legal person. If we go the way I'm proposing, which is to accredit the parent campaign, then we get more transparency, we get disclosure of information about the parent company, we don't have any questions about who's acting, who's got this representation, who's doing this, who's doing it, and who's responsible for it? And they can credit their representations easily, by providing information, simply the location of such representations. And such a foreign legal person may have several in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u99	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u100	But the responsibility for the actions of each of these representations rests with the person created under the legislation of another State. So I ask the room to conceptually identify and support my bill, in all other matters, we can find common points with the government bill and make a joint effort to read the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u101	Thank you. Frodokov Aleksei Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Please, Alexy Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u102	The honourable head, honourable national deputies, of the Committee on Economic Policy is in the process of working out a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on accreditation in Ukraine of separate divisions of foreign persons, number 5148, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and a corresponding project 5148, submitted by the National Deputy as an alternative. At its meeting on June 15, 2010, the committee scheduled a review of the bill. Recognizing the need for decisions on both bills, the committee considered only draft Law 5148, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on which it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council return it to the subject of the legislative initiative. In view of the absence of a draft bill by the author, 5148-1, the committee was unable to consider it. In view of the fact that alternative bills, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are being considered at the plenary session at the same time as the main ones, we ask the national deputies to determine the position of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the introduction into the single national register of legal persons, entrepreneurs, and the information on accredited foreign persons 5148-1, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Laupina by voting in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the information board. Xenia Leapina, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u104	Thank you, dear colleagues, Kseniya Lapina, “For Ukraine! ” Well, first of all, I have to apologize for not being present at the committee meeting, but unfortunately the committees are sitting at the same time, and at the same time my bill was being considered on our committee on industrial and regulatory policy and entrepreneurship, so there are so many inconveniences. But I would like all of us to understand that right now we need to figure out which way we're going, we want to have transparency in our country, or we don't want to, that's exactly what the question is. I am convinced that if we adopt my bill on the basis of it, we will continue to work with the government, take into account the observations of the Scientific and Expert Office, and make a normal, harmonious system of accreditation of normal, adequate, legal persons of other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u105	Honorary colleagues, the committee's conclusion, I remind you once again, to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to draft Bill 5148, a bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. With regard to Bill 5148, since the committee had not been able to consider it, he suggested that it should be decided by vote. The main scientific and expert office also supports the committee's decision on the need for the need for the return of Bill 5148, or government, for further work. And Bill 5148-1, author of Xenius Leapina, the proposal of the Science and Experimental Authority is to send to the Committee for a re-reading. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote the first proposal for adoption on the basis of draft Law 5148, which is a government amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on accreditation in Ukraine of separate branches of foreign legal persons. Please vote. [[17:14:47]] For 233 Decision taken. Then, in preparing for second reading the proposal of Kseniya Ljapina, I think the committee will count. Dear colleagues, now you have a proposal for a bill amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the completion of the grounds for the renewal of the act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, suspended as a result of a request by the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutionality of such an act]] [[Registration number 4089]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Feldman Alexander Borisovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Triduk Mikola Fedorovic. I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:15:56]] For 197 Decision taken. Yes, please, the author. None. Please, then, Mikola Fedorovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u106	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, was instructed by the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider at its meeting a draft law amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the completion of the grounds for the renewal of the act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, suspended as a result of a request by the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutionality of such an act]] [[Presented by the People’s Deputies Feldman and Gayman]] The Committee notes that the legislative initiative is aimed at improving the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and allows for other options for decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as a result of the examination of the Presidential address. [[on the constitutionality of the act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, suspended on the basis of article 106, paragraph 15, of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, suggests that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. In view of the above and after the discussion, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Feldman and Haydman, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, if anyone insists on expressing their position on this bill, please sign up, no, we will vote. Please put your name on the information board. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u108	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen conflicts between the President and the government in previous years, when artificial situations arose, when acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine were halted, then we decided, after a considerable time, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and. regarding the re-establishment of this act and the question depended as it were. This law makes possible the automatic restoration of this act, the suspended act. So, in my opinion, that proposal that was made by the science-expert management, and it suggested a choice of such a date, I quote: “In the event of a decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to refuse to open or terminate constitutional conduct in the case of constitutional submission by the President on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and in the case of recognition by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of the act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in such a way as corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine, the act of the suspended act shall be renewed.” In my opinion, this formula is better, and I think that Bill Feldman and Haiman, number 4089, should be adopted in the first reading, and more quickly accept it in the second, further developed, so that these acts can be reinstated, which have stalled. Such changes to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will significantly improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same perspective. That is why I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the completion of the grounds for the restoration of the act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was suspended as a result of a request by the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutionality of such an act]] [[Registration number 4089]] [[17:20:43]] For-7. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. [[on the term of office]] I'm putting to the vote a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. [[17:21:16]] For 196 Decision taken. Reporter, please, let's conclude the committee. Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Pavlenko Eduardo Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u110	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! On April 15, 2009, at its meeting, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sharov Igor Fedorovich. [[on the term of office]] [[Registration number 2702]] In order to guarantee the constitutional principle of the independence of an institution empowered by human rights, the term of office of an authorised person must not coincide with the term of parliamentary authority. In accordance with the 1996 Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was elected for 4 years and the Authorized Council for 5 years. With amendments to the Constitution in 2004, the term for which Parliament is elected was increased from 4 to 5 years. However, the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights” has not yet been amended accordingly. The bill proposes to change the term of office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from 5 to 7. The position of the Scientific and Experimental Authority: the bill can be adopted as a whole. According to the Budget Committee, the bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u111	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to express your thoughts, please sign up, no, we will vote. Please sign up. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u112	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of Regions. The honourable colleagues, the bill proposes to amend part four of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights” by setting the term of office of an authorized 7-year term and, in its current version of the law, only 5, with the aim of strengthening the guarantees of independent stable activities of the Authorized for Human Rights, creating preconditions to avoid attempts to politicize the Ombudsman's institution, which will have a positive impact on the effectiveness of its activities. As noted by the preceding speaker, the operation of the rule is not distributed to the authorized one assigned to office before the law becomes effective. The latter shall continue to exercise authority under the applicable legislation until the end of its term for which it has been assigned. It should be noted that the proposed changes take effect from the day the law was published. However, in section 2, paragraph 2, it actually follows that the current edition of part 4 of Article 5 remains valid until the end of the mandate of the Authorized Person appointed to this office before the adoption of the law. But this contradiction can be considered editorially. So the faction of the Party of the Regions considers it appropriate to adopt this bill as a basis. And if there's Parliament's will, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u113	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! Today you have seen in the consideration of the issue of the legality of keeping under the watch of the former Head of Customs of the Ukraine of Makarenko, that the rights of a citizen in Ukraine are not protected. They are completely defenseless, unfortunately, by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, which has not asked the Ukrainian Security Service a very simple question. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any interest in you? Obviously there is interest. Who did not ask the question, and who represented the interests of the government in Stockholm? No one imagined it. Why were people called off? No one asked. What about that decision? Who was the accuser? And who did the expertise? No one was driving! So 5 billion or 40 billion dollars, the Ukrainian people, give it to me, forget it. This includes financing both armies and all education, health care, and so forth. It's all in the same hands. As a result, we have only an ombudsman institution, the Supreme Council for Human Rights, to defend the Constitution. In this bill, which is very, very simple, the word "five" is replaced by "seven." That's it. So we need to make a political decision with you. The political decision is that we want the Ombudsman to depend in some part on the President, on the Attorney General, who is appointed at the time, whether he has the same guarantee of independence as, say, the head of the Court of Auditors, who is also appointed for seven years. In my opinion, the thought of a fellow member of the Regions is quite correct. Why did you hear that? This will increase the guarantees of the independence of the Ombudsman, and he won't look at who the President is, he'll look at the Constitution. So let's take y.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u115	Oleg Zarubinstsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u116	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I'd like to fix Yuri Carmazin a little bit. We're not making a political decision right now, it's legal. And the legal nature of this decision is that in virtually all countries where there is an ombudsman, and this applies today to almost every country that joins the United Nations, it is deliberately done so that the office of the ombudsman does not respond to it, and it is not identical to that of the national parliament. Otherwise, this position will be automatically, whether we want it or not, to be politicized and included in the distribution of various quotas. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, this cannot be allowed. And it was right to say that we have the right precedent for the head of the Accounting Chamber, which is chosen independently of the cadence. And one moment I want to say that the very procedure of even electing an ombudsman in Ukraine calls for his absolute independence, his apoliticism, because he is chosen even by secret ballot, unlike many other elections. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, let's finish our consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights. [[on the term of office]] [[Registration number 2702]] [[17:29:47]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it was an offer to put the vote to a full vote. Is there no objection? So let's put to the vote in full, taking into account the observations that have been made by scientific and expert management to bring it into line. Is there no objection? Therefore, given that the comments of the scientific and expert management will be taken into account, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights as a whole as a law, registration number 2702. [[17:30:43]] For 248 The decision is not taken. Decision taken, I'm sorry. So the law was passed. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u118	Yuri Carmazin. I wanted to tell my colleague that we have now made a political decision. And in any case, when it comes to 5 or 7, and the Parliament needs to be determined, Parliament is determined by a situation of relevance. And we have now made decisions on the basis of the Constitution, but we have taken it as a political decision. I would very much like the President to sign this decision because I have great doubts, because President Viktor Yanukovic did not accept the Ombudsman, or the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Commissioner, for the shameful violations of the Constitution that were permitted. Among them were recent violations that allowed Kotelnikov to be detained in Crimea, Captain I of the port of Eupatoria. That is why I would like the law to be signed and for the Ombudsman to be able to report here on a further report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u119	I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Protection of Childhood]] I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:32:25]] For 210 Decision taken. Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovic, co-rapporteur - head of the Committee on the Protection of Law Enforcement by Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovic. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u120	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The main position of this bill is the special legislative protection of minors from possible attacks on their lives, physical, spiritual and moral development, including administrative responsibility for the admission of minors to clubs, discotheques, video clubs, night clubs, and other similar entertainment and playgrounds, where their physical health, spiritual and moral aesthetic development can be affected from 22 to 6 p.m. Establishing such administrative responsibility for managers of cafes, restaurants, bars and other similar establishments for admission to such establishments as persons who have not reached the age of 16 from 22 to 6 without parents, or those who replace them. According to the project in case of parental approval, or those who are replaced by their underage children without supervision in public places from 22 to 6 p.m., administrative responsibility also rests on them. I would like to ask, and I want to say today, that this rule should be considered, not as a restriction on freedom of movement, but as a permit to move and stay in certain places and at some point only under the supervision of parents. The project thus foresees standards that aim at effective protection of childhood and are worthy of the upbringing of an adult generation. This project, designed in place of 20.03, is designed by honorary companions. 09, taking into account the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Law Enforcement and Other Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the proposals of numerous authorities, institutions and organizations. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u121	Thank you, sit down, please. From the committee is the head of the legislative and law enforcement subcommittee Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u122	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Bill 4243 is proposed for you to protect minors from possible physical, spiritual and moral abuse. In particular, it is envisaged that the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences should be amended by imposing penalties for violations by entertainment and other institutions for measures to promote the protection of children, admission of minors to computer clubs, discotheque, video, nightclubs, and other similar entertainment and playgrounds, where physical health, spiritual, moral and ethical development of the child can be affected. And that time is set from 22 to 6 o'clock. The admission of people who have not reached 16 years of age to cafes, restaurants, bars, and other similar facilities from 22 to 6 hours without parents or people who replace them. It is also proposed to impose penalties in the form of warning or imposing a fine on parents or persons to replace them, from one to three non-taxed minimums of income of citizens for allowing parents or persons who replace them to stay their underage children unsupervised in public places from 22 to 6 p.m. In addition, it is envisaged that the Ukrainian Child Protection Act should be supplemented by regulations defining the rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of parents for the upbringing and development of children. Generally speaking, the bill is really necessary, on the one hand, but on the other hand, considering what is happening today in the country. We have two students locked up in the locals in Kiev, and I want to tell society that a teenager in Radiville was hanged after talking to the police. And so far, as they say, no movement, because the police are doing quite a different job, the statement of the recommended newspapers is otherwise, as it is scheduled, when the Lviv MREO did not pass, you are no longer a nobody.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u123	Thank you. No, talk about it. Have a seat. This does not apply to children. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u124	Attention! The Main Committee proposes to send for further work, as there are a number of rules that conflict with the Declaration of Protection of the Child, which is international law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u125	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please sign up. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank the National MP, Danilenko, for his legislative initiative. Because the study of this subject, the acceptance of citizens, and the letters I receive show that such problems are very serious today. And although the scientific and expert office has concluded that we have banned the gaming business in Ukraine by law. Yes, we have forbidden the law. But the gaming business in Ukraine remained. Somehow he doesn't read the laws, those who want profit. And now it's crammed under Internet clubs, under everything else. And there is a real game business today. To close your eyes is to be blind people. This makes it very different to look at the comments given to this bill. The bill proposes to amend administrative offences that, first of all, prohibit minors from entering computer clubs or nightclubs, as well as other entertainment and gaming establishments. It also prohibits the admission of these persons from 22 hours to 6 hours without parents in restaurants, cafes, bars increasing the responsibility of the individual and amending the Child Protection Act, which places certain responsibilities on the parent. I think this is going to contribute to the recovery of the nation as a whole, and these measures need to be taken until our generation is fully absorbed in these games, games and so on. And these are now diagnostics, and the diagnosis that doctors are doing today is being treated for addiction. Because in order to save, to postpone the law, it has to be adopted, to improve the terminology, and it has to work, and it has the right to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u127	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Question complete, question completed, we will be determined. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 4243 amending some Ukrainian legislation on child protection. Please vote. [[17:40:33]] For-38 Not supported. I'm betting on re-reading. [[17:40:54]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Let's go to Second Reading. He's listening. There's no procedure, because none of this is going to happen. I repeat, there is no procedure, the law is off. I am voting on the proposal of the drafters of the bill number 3470 on the transfer of the matter. Please be supportive. [[17:41:41]] For 236 Bill number 3470 has been transposed. From what?Oh, my God! We're not looking at a bill. We just want to talk. There's no such thing as a rule, no! That's what cook can tell you there isn't. Arjevitin by the microphone, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to ask the authors of this bill Simonenka and Kravchenk to take a closer look at the bill that we had in 3585, this is about overcoming the financial crisis. And then the Law, which was signed by President 1533. In this law, we settled all the mortgages between the mortgage lender, the mortgageholder, we protected the mortgage lenders. So I'm just asking them to study carefully the existing rules on this adopted law in the part of the mortgage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u129	Thank you. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the customs treatment of goods intended for the preparation and conduct of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine is under consideration. [[second reading]] [[6411 - Registration Number]] First Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, let me remind you that the draft law was designed to implement the national goal programme for the preparation and implementation of the Euro-2012 finals in Ukraine, which provides for a simplified and duty-free procedure for the introduction and exit of the championship by the participants and designated persons of the goods needed to prepare for the final part of the European Football Championship. During the preparation of the draft bill, a number of meetings and working meetings were held before the committee’s second reading. The comments and suggestions that came from the national deputies are largely taken into account. These are national deputies: Saints, Carmazin, Teryochin, Homutinnik, and others. During its consideration of the draft law in question, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u131	Thank you, Vitalia. Dear colleagues, all the proposals, except for one, are amended by number 13 of Karmazin's colleagues, taken into account. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you will argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u132	It's practically accounted for, it's editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u133	Yuri Carmazin. This is about the 4th amendment. I would like us to return, Adam Ivanovich, to count from four. I propose a new paragraph of part one of article 206 of the Ukrainian Customs Code: “temporaryly for the period from 1.08.2010 to 1.07.2012, building technology, equipment and equipment for the construction of the championship objects, as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. End of quote. Since a different phrase, quote: during the Ukrainian Act “On the Organization and Conduct of the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine”, in fact, it allows for exemption from the taxation of goods imported since January 01, 2008, since article 1 of this Act defines the period of preparation from January 01, 2008. Furthermore, according to article 58, part one, of the Constitution, laws and other acts do not have a reverse effect in time. I want us not to let this happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u134	Thank you. Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u135	The point is that the committee and the Cabinet of Ministers on the first reading referred to the project, to the law, to the Act in force on the organization and the holding of the final part of the Euro-2012 Championship, and we worked on that decision. Next. Under this law, we provide certain benefits, but a list of which goods will benefit from the value added tax is going to be a separate law. This bill will certainly be next year when we know exactly what kind of technology will enter Ukraine, what kind of goods and we will understand what codes will have to be run through Parliament. That's why I don't think the committee has any use in leaning towards Karmazin's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u136	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote amendment 4 of Deputy Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:47:02]] For-31 Not supported. Please, are there 13 amendments? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that we are. If there's a particular firm that wants to say that under it, the law is one question. I mean, I'd like us to clean it up here and not be allowed to abuse this law. With regard to amendment 13, article 11, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Act on the organization of the final part of the 2012 European Championship, is proposed to place football in such an order, to replace it with the fourth: in the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Conduct of the Final Part of the 2012 European Championship from football in Ukraine, to supplement it with article 8. And here's the strange thing about this 8 prim. It is written that this article is essentially taken into account. So the 13th is kind of rejected, even though it's a prerequisite for the 14th, and the 14th is counted. It's probably, if it's accounted for essentially, and it's kind of accounted for in fact, it probably doesn't make sense, Adam Ivanovich, to vote 13th, because you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u138	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. So, your honors, we're done discussing the issue. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, as a law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the customs treatment of goods for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[6411 Registration Number]] Please vote. [[17:48:59]] For 241 The law is passed. Thank you. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Please listen to the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. Registration number 5277. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna Dear colleagues! Here is an amendment to the Trash rejected. Does he insist? I don't insist, so I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. Registration number 5277. Please vote. [[17:50:01]] For 242 The law is passed. A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on breeding is under consideration. Registration number 5034, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u139	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on tribal animals, registration number 5034, is being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for second reading. The main purpose of the bill is to further improve the legal regulation of the tribal management system in animal production and control by amending the laws in force in this area. The bill also defines the respective functions of the executive authorities and defines their mandate. In particular, the bill contains rules on the powers of administration and control, the functioning of the National Animal Administration; the activities of the State system of management of tribal animalry; the coordination of activities and the financing of the use of programs; the selection of livestock; and the preservation of the gene pool of existing local and endangered species. During the drafting of the bill, three proposals were made by the Ukrainian National Deputies: two taken into account, one rejected. When the bill is adopted, its standards are expected to create conditions for the further development of tribal activities in animal farming and for the improvement of the domestic selection system in animal farming. With regard to the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority on the bill, it is indeed appropriate to agree that the Law on Tribal Affairs itself needs to be improved in accordance with international requirements. Unfortunately, though, this transition requires considerable material costs, which require considerable pressure on the state budget. This transition should therefore be gradual, and improvements in the legislative framework should be phased out. So I ask you to consider the bill in second reading, support the committee's decision and accept it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u140	Thank you, Marina Volodymyrna. Please have Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin? A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u141	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that before this very small bill on the whole five pages is a remark made by the legal authorities. It's rare for them to do that, believe me, I read all the notes, that's the point, let's say. I wanted to fix a little bill, and I wanted to help with that part. Well, unfortunately, there's a reason why my amendment was rejected here, it's about amendment number two. I propose a part of the seventh part of Article 7, fourth, sorry to say, article 7, as follows: “to use only animals certified in the established order for reproduction of higher tribal or genetic quality.” That is, instead of being now written: “the ones admitted to the reproduction of the offspring” emphasize that these should be of superior, tribal or genetic quality. The state doesn't have anything to support, we have to see what's best.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u142	I'll bet you the vote on the amendment of colleague Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:53:53]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on tribal matters in animal agriculture. [[Registration number 5034]] Please vote. [[17:54:23]] For 240 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service and article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government is under consideration. [[on pension insurance]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 4389]] Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergei Volodymyrovich Gordijenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u143	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee considered at its meeting the proposals made by the people’s deputies, which were presented before the second reading of the bill. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee unanimously agreed to reject the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, who, according to the committee, were to be considered in the drafting of the bill on public service in the new edition, as they substantially changed the concept of the bill and did not comply with the requirements of section 1 of article 116 of the Rules. The committee supported the proposal made by the national MP, Gordonck, to change the date of entry into force of the bill itself. The bill was made by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, who generally supported the ideas of the drafters of the bill but suggested that it should be decided in a different way. The Committee has considered very carefully the observations of the General Legal Administration at its meeting and, since the constitutional nature of the equality of access to the public service and services in the local self-government bodies and the fact that by 2001 the Act on State Service was extended to officials of local self-government and applied identical criteria and principles of access to the service itself, the Committee considers that the same rules for the appointment of pensions for the presence of this 20-year internship should be established for government officials and officials of local government. The committee disagreed with the Supreme Legal Authority’s statement that this would greatly expand the circle of individuals. As a result of the discussion, the committee concluded that the bill should be adopted in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u144	Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich, your proposals are rejected. What are your thoughts?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u145	Yuri Carmazin. It's very sad that we have another observation from the Chief Legal Authority. I would like to propose to part one of the first articles of article 37 of the Ukrainian State Service Act to present it in such an editorial. Retirement of civil servants is granted to persons who have reached the age of at least 25 for men, at least 20 for women, including State service at least 10 years of age, and, I emphasize, in posts assigned to the category of civil servants and or in the category of positions in local self-government bodies, irrespective of the place of employment at the time of retirement, beginning in 1990. Pensions to government officials amount to 80 per cent of their salaries, which include insurance contributions to the general government pension insurance and to persons who are not civil servants at the time of the pension application, 80 per cent of the civil servant’s salaries to the appropriate position and rank at the last place of employment in the public service.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u146	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u147	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think that this will significantly improve the protection of people's rights, including the state, because I'm talking about that they should not just be there in the public body, but in the positions assigned to the categories of government officials. So I don't understand why they didn't take this amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u148	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the committee itself felt that this changed the concept and significantly expanded the circle. Running ahead. And he turned it down. In advance, I'm going to say that I see and I know that the situation has changed and this bill will not vote, so we're going to work with you on these ideas in the new State Service Act, which will be registered and presented in a new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u149	Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. Please make the next amendment, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u150	Thank you. I would like to make a second amendment, I propose part seven, article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government: “Pension insurance for officials of local government who have reached the age of retirement established by law for men of at least 25 years of age, for women of at least 20 years of age, and who have served at least ten years of service in posts assigned to the categories of civil servants or categories of positions in local self-government bodies starting in the 1990s, regardless of the place of employment at the time of retirement age, is carried out in accordance with the order laid down by the Ukrainian Law on State Service. I know they'll tell me again that it'll expand. But the man worked in these positions, he was responsible, he was either a village head or a secretary, he was responsible for the whole region. And we are depriving her of that right today, obviously that's not fair. That's why I'm saying, yes, it makes extra effort, but it's socially fair. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u151	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u152	Yuri Anatolyevich, I believe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u154	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u155	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I think it's perfectly fair, especially for those categories that have worked for many years and gone, and they don't. But knowing that there will be no votes in the session room, you and I will be working on this idea in the new bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u156	Any more notes, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, there's another amendment, Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u157	Yuri Carmazin. I'm conceptual. I'm glad to see the same people, including the committee. I proposed that part of article 21 should be made available in such an editorial that officials of local self-government who have served in elected positions in local self-government bodies for ten years or more, starting with the 1990 call, except for the termination of the powers for the reasons defined and the articles I write: 78, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. Because we have paradoxical cases now, you know, under Kiev a court-martial is headed by the head of the village council, so released for a bribe of $4.2 million to Crimea now the head is out, running and already 40 hectares there "directed" as they come, people are saying. So I think that these thoughts too need to be conceptually developed and guaranteed right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in this way we have discussed all the amendments, I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law, registration number 4389 on the amendment of article 37 of the Law on State Service and article 21 of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. [[on pension insurance]] Please vote. [[18:02:51]] For-42 The decision is not supported. The law is rejected. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is being considered, according to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Oliynik Viktor Stepanovich. [[Registration number 3239]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u159	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, you are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, adopted as the basis on April 15, 2009. This project aims to raise the level of social protection of children in Chernobyl, first of all, children with disabilities and liquidators, who are now the least protected and most vulnerable groups of the population. The adoption of this bill will allow the equal rights of children living in Chernobyl who are taught in public and municipal educational institutions. So this is actually the main point of this bill. The bill proposes the extra compulsory provision of citizens' children who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, assigned to category 1 and 2 in the secondary educational institutions of state and municipal property, irrespective of the known subordination, as well as the granting of rights to citizens belonging to the relevant categories of persons who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Going beyond the competition not only to state institutions, but also to municipal higher education institutions, vocational and technical institutions, and to vocational training courses with compulsory housing for those who do not have housing and a higher scholarship. The bill had nine proposals. 5 counts. 4 overruled. These are their own proposals that apply to the taking of effect by law. The deadline for effective entry into force is January 01, 2011. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a draft law on second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 3239]] Please support the committee's decision. I think it's going to be real help for the kids of the neighborhood today. These children are actually citizens of the first and second categories, mostly black people with disabilities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u160	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, here's part of Yuri Carmazin's amendment taken into account, and one is not included. Are you insisting? Please, 6 revisions. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u161	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your attention. I would like to say that this Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens, which has been affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the changes that we make, should improve people's lives. I understand the government wants to put the law into effect later. But this was written in the first reading: The law takes effect on the day of its official publication. It's legally a little off-limits. And that's why I wrote and suggested that I write: it takes effect from the day it was published -- as provided for in the valid Constitution of Ukraine, just as it was written in the Constitution. Apparently, they went a different way and, in amendment 8, Jonovich the Ripper was recorded as of January 1, 2011. The sooner I started to work, the easier it would be for people to live and put a little pressure on the budget. That's why I would ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u162	Thank you. I think there are moments here that still have to do with the budget code. Yuri Anatolyovich. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law with registration number 3239 of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. [[on strengthening social protection]] [[18:07:22]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Law on the Moratorium of Green Planting on Certain Objects is under consideration with the green economy of Kyiv. Registration number 2393. Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u163	Dear National Deputies! The bill is aimed at halting the further destruction of green plants in the green areas of Kiev. It envisions introducing a five - year moratorium on green plantings in the most important green areas in the city, such as squares, botanical gardens, parks, parks, and coastal areas, as well as water protection zones. The bill was adopted at the first reading on March 31, this year. 20 amendments were made to the text of the bill. It is proposed to take into account the 10 amendments. Take into account some of the 3 amendments and discard the 7 amendments. Estimated and partially accounted for. Some of them are of a technical nature. It's a transfer of deadlines for the execution of assignments in the final positions and technical and legal corrections. Other amendments taken into account also contribute to a clearer technical and legal formulation of relevant parts of the bill. That's why we have a request for national MPs to support this bill, if we care about the future of our people, if we care about Kiev, not just the capital of Ukraine, but also the green city. The situation in Kiev has become very disturbing, and you know it without me. Every day, in fact, in every area, we see incidents, people protecting green plants, people protecting squares, instigating territories, and authorities destroying and destroying green plants. And it won't be long before we just see Kiev, not as a green capital, but as a buildup of a lot of concrete, a lot of bricks. And it will not be a city, but a sack of stone. So I'm still asking, regardless of the factions' position, to support it. I want to remind you that on the first reading of this bill, 354 deputies voted in favour of it, including 147 members from the Party of the Regions. All of them voted as one, KPU, and everyone else voted in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u164	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Let's get some repairs. Carmazine, do you insist on the 1st? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u165	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come out of this by proposing to change the name of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Conservation of Green Plantations in Green Farms in order to distribute its standards throughout Ukraine and to introduce these amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Plant World, the Red Book and the Welfare of Human Settlements. Think about it, please. Now we have to separate the law from Kharkiv, Odessa, Lviv, Donetsk. That's impossible! That's why he's in Kharkiv right now. The 600 trees that were laid down, and the coalition is silent about it, 6 people were thrown for playing -- those who protected nature, those who protected the Constitution. That's why I think you're wrong here, Ivan Alexanderovich. A name should be changed, such a moratorium should be distributed throughout the country, and green plantings should not be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u166	The offer is very correct, but we have decided to solve the problem in another way. First of all, Kiev is the capital of Ukraine and it has a separate law, and we can act in that direction. The other one. We have drafted a bill, and it will be submitted soon, on green plantings in Ukraine, and there these issues will be settled at all national levels. Today it's just about the capital, because we know, for example, it's done here. You all live in Kiev, and you all know what's going on here. That's why. And there's a third. The third is that there is another bill that speaks of a moratorium on changing the destination of recreational land. And this bill, it's really widespread throughout Ukraine. And so all these problems will be solved in the same way. So your question is absolutely true, but the way it's solved is different from what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u167	Thank you. Are you insisting on the fourth? Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u168	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! See how we have the standard of article two. It is written, in a mild sense, unintelligently: simply enter a moratorium in a term. And that's it. How am I supposed to write this down? I would like to write this down: Before the adoption of appropriate laws aimed at strengthening the legal protection of green plants in cities and other populated areas, introduce a moratorium on the removal of green plants on the following green farms. There's still a list. So, John Alexanderovich, you have to write, and I'm going to show you what a standard-setting technique should be like. And you and I have always understood each other, even when we wrote the Constitution, which was once so little marked, and yesterday was the Constitution. That's why we found a common language, and here you take that rude technique, and you write so hard. I just don't understand why you don't want to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u169	Mr. Yuri, there are several reasons for this, again. The first reason is that the text of your amendment refers to the condition, which is the adoption of appropriate laws aimed at strengthening legal protection. And any deputy, that is, I get the logic again, yours and it's close to me. But any deputy will stand up in the Supreme Council and say, John Alexanderovich, and what law is here meant because we remember the experience of imposing a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. And that's why the bill uses the same formula, but more precisely, it says that before the adoption of the State Register Act and there are other laws, so if there were specific laws in this proposal, then the MPs would adopt it, they will not now adopt it. That's the first one. The other one. We give that logic, we know that today we can stop the barbaric destruction of green plants in Kiev by a very hard moratorium. And if we impose a five-year moratorium, just like we did with the deforestation in the Carpathian region, it made those who did that activity realize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u170	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. There are still some amendments to the unaccounted for by a colleague of Carpuch. You insist, Vladimir. Please, Karpuk's microphone and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u171	I do not insist on the fifth amendment, but on the tenth, I insist that they vote. This is about responsibility for breaking the moratorium. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, I don't understand why you didn't support this amendment, because it's a moratorium. If the moratorium is broken, it's different. And another amendment is, it's rejected by the 16th, where it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u172	Let's do it each way. 10th, then 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u173	Please speak. Talk to me after the 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u174	At 16, I want the deadline to be set, because if what is proposed to do inventory during 2011, Ivane Alexandrovich, by 2011, there will be no more inventory. I insist that the inventory take place by September 1, 2010, although the deadline is quite short. In 2011, there will be no inventory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u175	Thank you. Please, Carmazine 15, it's connected to 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u176	Let me give you an answer, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u177	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the essence of my amendment is a little bit wider, I propose paragraph 4 of Part Two in the following editions: “Enveloping environmental sites in cities and other populated areas, including green, park, forest and recreational areas during 2010”. Fellow Karpuk proposes by September 1st, since today is June 29th, we will not be able to make it in these two months. And by the end of the year, we can do that. And by next year, if we don't do the inventory, it's all going to be cut down there, here's Kharkiv, there's others, the Kievs are still cutting, you know, how, all the time, you have to react. So I don't understand the committee that's putting off, and I'm proposing a moratorium right now, and I'm putting it off for a year, which I don't understand, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u179	Let's do that. Adam Ivanovich, come on, I'm going to answer these, well, remarks, because people might have the impression that we really don't understand what this is about. As for the 10th Amendment of Karpuk, you know perfectly well that we now have the Supreme Council Rules as a law. And the Rules of the Supreme Council stated that amendments could be made to those articles that were considered in the first reading. There is an appropriate letter from the Head of the Supreme Council to the committees. And I understand that we need to take responsibility today for breaking the moratorium. And I support you here too, Mr. Karpuk, and you, Mr. Carmazin, because this law of irresponsibility hangs. But according to our procedure, we have to form a mechanism of responsibility, unfortunately, through another law. That is what the Rules say today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u180	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is very lively, the problem is extremely painful. In accordance with our procedure, I am voting on adoption as a whole as the Law (register No. 2393) “On the moratorium on the removal of green plantings on individual objects in the green economy of Kiev”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[18:18:53]] Z-87 There was a second offer. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[18:19:15.]] For 283
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m1.u181	We do. 283. Returns to second reading. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we begin work at 10 o’clock and consider the issues proposed by the opposition in accordance with the Rules.
