ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:33]] A total of 411 national deputies registered. Honourable National Deputies, today in connection with the requirement of 174 Ukrainian National Deputies for the convening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion and in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules is being held at an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the sixth call, has been announced. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] The honourable national deputies, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules for the next session, are asked exclusively and only questions proposed by the initiators of the extraordinary session. The list of issues proposed for consideration is given in advance, as required by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today we have three questions with you: this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, this is a government bill, and today, honourable colleagues are invited to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the implementation of social protection measures in connection with the formation of housing tariffs. [[on the Savings Recovery Mechanism]] Is there no objection? Then we start our work. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Biruk Lev Vasilovich, Yacenuk Arsenij Petrovich, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Omelchenko Alejandro Alexandrovich. Reporter, please. Is Biruk Lev Vasilovich there? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Let's get started. With a good start for all of us! First of all, I would like to make a proposal to include in today's vote the issue of withdrawing a standard of 365 days for registration parties and removing this rule as non-democratic. The second is that I want to start with the amendments and changes that I have made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the law that we have to consider, the rights of district organizations are substantially reduced. Area organizations today are usually located in cities and towns of areas that are an indispensable structure and a major structure for an administrative territorial unit. If a city organization in the district center of a town or in a city is a district organization structure, you can't, you can't understand, even on party canons, you can't make a district organization conference weaker or less influential than a city organization. What, then, do we have in the Law of Ukraine that is before us for consideration? It states that the regional organization of the party may nominate an electoral list of candidates to a corresponding council in a number that does not exceed the number of deputies per candidate in each single majority constituency by election of elected deputies of the respective council, one candidate per candidate in each one-maned constituency, by election of the respective rural, village councils and one candidate for the respective rural, village heads, except for the villages, the villages that are part of the city, according to the existing administrative and territorial arrangement. But let's talk with you about the fact that the district organization is exactly what the city organization of this district center is. So how can you divide party leaders, party members into those who refer to the city, even though they do enter the district, members of the district organization, but they have no right to appoint deputies and heads of the city of their territorial, administrative and territorial center. So the question of amendment is to do as follows: District. Insert the following part of the third article 36 in a new edition: the regional organization of the party may issue an electoral list of candidates in each multi-mandatory constituency constituency by the election of the city's respective deputies, the city's district council's constituencies not exceeding the number of members of the council's general composition, one candidate per candidate in each single-major majority constituency constituency by the election of the respective city's deputies, the city's district council's value. The electoral list of candidates for the respective District Council in a number that does not exceed the number of members of the General Council and one candidate for each one-mandate majority constituency by election of the deputies of the respective District Council and one candidate per candidate in each one-maned constituency by election of deputies of the respective Rural, Village and one candidate for the respective Rural, Rural Councils. So we're going to establish justice, because the district organization can't be a smaller or smaller city organization in any district center. And cities like, Kiev, the district cities of Sevastopol, usually have a separate function in their parties, and these organizations are likened to the district. So I want you to consider my reasoning and support the changes and additions to the Law on the Election of Local Councils and Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u4	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear Lev Vasilovich, you said that the rule that party organizations that have not been registered for 365 days are not democratic if they are not involved in moving their candidates out. Please tell me if there's anything to do with democracy when another leader doesn't do party construction, buys that word directly, and everybody knows that he bought a party under a key that's already registered, and then makes claims that it's a full-fledged party, even though it's against current legislation. Because according to article 11, paragraph 6, of the Political Parties Act in the six months it has an organization should have in most areas, districts, and cities of Ukraine. Is it democratic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u5	Mr. Oleg, I agree with you that this is a violation and legislation and, above all, morality. But each party has a general internal party democracy. And it's up to them to watch over their leaders, not allow them to put on lists or the major districts of those who don't deserve to be on our local councils. And we have legislation on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u6	Yes, Valery Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u7	Dear fellow reporter, please tell me why you think that the non-democratic changes initiated by the national MP Ephrem to the law, due to the fact that there is no specific order of formation, take a personal look at the drafting of the law and what we want to change with you. For example, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. They have their own legislation. This is autonomy in Ukraine. The procedure for defining committees, including you as a representative of the opposition party, why are you trying to make an undemocratic way of being on a committee of those parties that have been working for over a year in the same Crimea? Well, answer these questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u8	The commission, the honorary colleague, the commission, the change in the composition of the district commissions, the district district commissions are not the subject. This is about the nomination of candidates to the local councils and both to Crimea, which you have named, and to the areas of our state and the candidates for the measure, and to the heads of the strengths, villages, city councils. If there is legislation and it makes it possible to raise appropriate parties in the same Autonomous Republic, someone opposes it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u9	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Lev Vasilovich, I support your changes to article 36, and more specifically to part three of article 36, but I feel that this is not enough. And that's why I put in a bill where I have comprehensively foreseen not only these changes that are similar to yours, but also many different things. So I wanted to hear your opinion as an experienced man, that these, anchored by the initiative of the ruling majority, are the limits by which the territorial election committees are formed by the submission of a local organization only to the represented party of the current convening of political parties in the Supreme Council, only those locals who are registered in 365 days. Your attitude to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u11	Thank you, colleague. I said my attitude to 365 days. And it's not just my personal opinion, it's the faction that was confirmed at the meeting today. And what you said was that there's not just any thresholds in that law, there are things you can't run elections with. Because something like bringing candidate protocols to the district commission, to the CBC will just call, I don't know. How much does it take to have 15,000, 20,000 representatives with notarized records, with notarized registration certificates. Who and when will they be dealt with in such a term as there is? So I agree with you, you have to work with the law. And I know that you, and like our faction, we didn't support the election on October 31st, because we knew that they would pass, you know, it was called. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u12	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u13	Dear reporter, your thesis on the democratisation of the electoral process to the local councils is absolutely acceptable, and the "Julia Timoshenko Block" will support it. Indeed, all the political segments that are should be involved. But you know why it's done, and why the Party of Regions left so late. In view of the usually catastrophic decline in confidence in them, the voters who voted for them. This is, of course, Sevastopol's compound, and gas prices literally go up one and a half times, and then twice. This is, of course, the behavior of the authorities with the Chernobylites, where the law, which has always been in force in Ukraine, is completely ignored, and the Chernobyls are being brought to trial by different institutions and so forth. But you know that there's another law that they're making under this democratic norm that you've made, they're making a lot of amendments that are making the law worse. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. You know, if it were just a matter of parties that didn't take 365 days, but unfortunately, they're selling parties, unfortunately, whether the party leaders are selling, which are already 3 years old or over. So that's exactly the standard we're going to make it impossible for a bunch of parties and so on and so forth. But I'll give you my opinion personally, and I'm addressing all my fellow MPs. No, it's hard to go to elections with this law. Unfortunately, all we have to do here is make changes and complements. How can this law be filled more with changes that will allow for a normal election. In other words, we're going to have a lot of problems. And a lot of court appeals. And knowing how the judicial system works today, we can almost imagine the finalization of this election campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u15	Thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat. I would like to invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Yacenuk Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u16	Dear community! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On July 10, the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections was voted in this Parliamentary Hall. And unfortunately, they didn't hear that the adoption of this law was nothing more than a violation of the direct constitutional rights of Ukrainians. The direct constitutional rights to choose and be chosen. The direct constitutional right that the Ukrainian people are the only source of power in Ukraine. Yes, authority can be obtained through bribery, intimidation, changes to the law, through an administrative resource. And even theoretically, this power can be maintained for a period of time in such a format. But the government will be supported by the people only when this authority does what it has promised for each individual citizen, not through obstacles under electoral law. Not by shutting down new parties and new political leaders from the electoral process. And it's not by depriving Ukrainian citizens of the right to vote, the right to vote and the right to be elected. The amendments to the law that I am introducing apply to a number of non-constitutional rules adopted by Parliament on 10 July. The main point is that the adopted law deprived the parties whose local centres were registered 365 days before the elections were held, of the right to participate in the electoral process. What does that mean? This means that if the party develops, if it creates a hub, if there are worthy party members, and these party members somehow fail to fall into the rules of the game created by today’s coalition, they remain outside the electoral process. The other one. As far as commission formation is concerned. There is also a trend that has continued during the presidential campaign, when voting and commissioning are allocated only to parliamentary parties. Of what rights, and for what merit? That is why the second amendment calls for the inclusion of representatives of all political parties who are going to the elections and who should defend their outcome and who should protect their electorate. Next on the competence of the local higher committee. In fact, the law eliminates the judicial branch of power in the electoral process, such as that, and gives non-constitutional powers to the territorial election boards with non-constitutional powers to overturn the decisions of the lower committees and to remove the judicial branch of power from final decision-making. It's just as nothing but usurping power by the political parties represented today in the Ukrainian Parliament. Next on how to make decisions by such committees. I would like to remind you that under a valid unconstitutional law, the commission decides by a simple majority of the votes and by the number of those present. [[Attention]] So if there are three members of the commission, in theory these three members of the commission can make decisions, regardless of the fact that the commission is made up of 18 members. In view of this, it is quite clear that the main element of today's elections is that administrative pressure will play the most important role in these elections. One of the most important achievements of every democratic country is free elections. And such free elections should take place in Ukraine in spite of coalition efforts to prevent qualitatively new political forces from allowing the electoral process. That is why I insist on making these decisions. That is why it can now be said that this extraordinary meeting of parliament is a victory, the first victory in the last 8 months of the work of the new authority. Fight and fight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u18	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Arsen Petrovich, the Ukrainian People's Party shares your concern about the anti-democratic standards that are present in today's Election Act. In fact, according to this law, today's coalition will have 80-90 percent of all members of these committees. Obviously, it is not difficult to guess what the result will be. At the same time, today we see a sharp collapse in the rating of today’s captivated coalition. Please tell me what you think is the main reason that coalition representatives want to make this law more democratic, which is really not subject to correction and democratization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u19	To my conviction, one of the main factors that has forced the coalition today to consider the bill in Parliament's walls is the international response. The red card for any authority is when elections are recognized as a non-democratic Western world. And in principle, the real power is in that case, if you run a local election by law, you're definitely going to get that red card. And this red card, this means that diplomatic passports of these national deputies, who are here, can be placed in a drawer, because visas won't be put there. In view of this, first and foremost, I hope that understanding has come, that the power of teeth has nothing to sustain. It needs to be maintained only through actions, actions, and direct work with its constituents. And the second. With my information. By the way, in the ruling coalition, not all local centers have party organizations registered. And lastly, I'm going to talk about legal aid. There's some discussion here about what it's like for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u20	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u21	There is a legal discussion here about what, in accordance with article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties, all local centres should be registered six months after the registration of the relevant party organisation. So I want to undo this myth and tell the truth. And the truth is next. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16.10.2007, in which it is written to blacks in white that the rule is that the party should register its centres in only 14 administrative districts within 6 months. [[I can present it.]] Read the law and the decision of the Constitutional Court, fellow believers!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u22	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u23	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block. Arsenius Petrovich, I share your concern and support the bill you tabled. It really has some effect on the weakening of the administrative resources. But what I'm interested in is what you've commented on, I don't think it's a very democratic norm of article 35, where you deny the possibility of simultaneously floating on lists in one-mandom and multi-mandate districts at the right levels. It seems to me that this rule should be removed because it is truly undemocratic. How do you view this problem? Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u24	I hope that by the second reading, a number of rules of this law will be taken into account, and we are working on this situation. What was my motive when I made that decision? I was motivated by the fact that those of the Party who today have high authority not to hide on the lists, to go to major districts, to work directly with the electorate, and to prove their position, and to win the Majority District. However, once again, before the second reading, I am ready to work on this bill and to make a decision that will take account of the position of all colleagues. And as for the electoral system as a whole, my law proposes to hold local elections for a mixed system, like last ones, this year. The following elections should be held only on open party lists. Such an election system should also be put in place to elect members of parliament when there is a vote for a deputy who is attached to the county and represents the party and is on the list. This is a task that needs to be done when we adopt the Electoral Code in the shortest place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u25	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u26	Stand back, please, so I can. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arsenius Petrovich, I have a question for you: democracy is a very important thing, but democracy, the meaning of democracy -- it is power that must work from the people and, in fact, the system of power itself must be what the people want. By your logic, if the political party doesn't have local facilities that aren't legalized, so they don't work, so people don't know, so there's no contact with people. How such a party can claim to participate in the elections and talk about democracy if the party lacks the institutional resources or the people who commit labour and work with the population, listening to people's problems by turning to the authorities, organizing what democracy you offer if you hide your party from the people, people do not see it or know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u27	Dear fellow MP, if you asked me about the party I'm leading, I'd be happy to give you this information. The party began with the public movement three years ago, a public movement called the "Front Change". Today, it is a political party that registers seven hundred and seven local organizations. The bill you voted for deprived all these organizations of their right to participate in the electoral process. Only eighteen out of seven hundred seven local organizations under your law from the political party “The Change Front” could vote. And the last thing about democracy. I recall this article of the Constitution on the leading and leading role of the party is in the past.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u28	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat. Please welcome to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Efraemov Aleksandra Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u29	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On October 31, Ukraine will hold the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village, city heads. Adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law “On the Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads” introduced the holding of local elections on the principle of a new legislative basis. You, as I have witnessed, have witnessed that the adoption of this law was not a matter of mere political compromise of the political forces of the coalition. So if the Supreme Council had not voted and the President of Ukraine had not signed that law, the old Electoral Code would have been in force since August 2, this year. The actions he has taken in his preparation are almost in reverse. I recall that the old electoral law allowed local councils to be elected solely for closed party lists. It is not a secret that the application of a proportional electoral system behind the closure of party lists in Ukraine has not justified itself. It stimulated political corruption, buying, and selling places on the front of the list. The “Pores” monitoring committee* has repeatedly called attention to the inadmissibility of the chosen model of the proportional electoral system in Ukraine. So the first thing we did was change the electoral system itself, and that's the main thing. On August 25, the President held a meeting with members of the Stability and Reform Coalition Council. There was a decision to support a coalition of Heads of State's initiatives on the need to amend the Local Elections Act. The Parliamentary Coalition has supported the initiative of the President of Ukraine to amend the Local Elections Act, and so today in the next session we have the opportunity to amend some of the rules of this law. What is the point? First, the project proposes to remove restrictions on the possibility of participating in local elections of local political parties that were formed later than 365 days before the election day, allowing all local political parties to present their candidates. Once this standard is adopted, any registered party centre will be able to put candidates on the floor. Today, it is likely to be fair. But I remind our opponents that under the current legislation of Ukraine, the political party registered for six months from the date of its registration ensures the establishment and registration of its local organizations in most areas of Ukraine, the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Therefore, it is not the right to register party facilities but the duty of the party, which has been legally appointed for six months since 2001. Thus, the 365 - day rule did not prevent political parties from participating in election races. Where the law is not enforced by the political party, there is no way that the party can count on the support of citizens and the result of the vote for the party, I don't think so either. Our vote, unlike the 365-day rule, I think it won't help the butterfly party. Secondly, it is proposed to change the principle of the composition of territorial election committees. The proposed changes give us the right to participate in the formation of territorial election committees, not only to the local organizations of those political parties represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but to all local organizations of all political parties. Thirdly, a number of technical and editorial changes are proposed to the law, namely: the Supreme Council's draft review of the Scientific and Expert and Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine revised some of the inconsistencies of the articles of the law with the provision of the Law on the State Register of Elections; a number of editorial laws have been issued to bring the terms of the law into one terminology; a number of changes have been made to improve its practical application by all subjects of the electoral process. I stress that the question of the legality, openness and transparency of the electoral campaign to the local councils is one of the highest priorities of the President of Ukraine. It is important for us not to lower the democratic standards that have been demonstrated in the recent elections of the President of Ukraine and highly appreciated by the international community. Victor Janukovic and the Party of Regions have committed themselves to ensuring that democratic transformations are irreversible and that basic political institutions are as close to European standards as possible. I assure you, we're doing everything we can to do this. I believe that all the political forces that are not just at the root of words and proclamations are in the way of the irreversibility of democratic transformations in our country, and they are necessarily supporting this bill today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u31	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Alexandre Sergiyovich, very interesting, as it were, is the history of the Local Elections Act. On July 27, the President signed this law. The last number of you are just like you were in the fall and the faction of the President in the law is the flaws that 12 hours opposition representatives have proved to you on the same stand, that absolute nonsense is to ban young parties and other moments, and to form commissions in this way. What is it? I'm sorry, I can't say otherwise. And the factions, and the honorable president. What's wrong? What is the real reason that you are initiating changes today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u32	Thank you for your tolerance and culture in raising the issue. But I'd like to say that it wasn't just then that we saw it, but today we suddenly saw it. If you remember the process of moving forward with this bill, there have also been appropriate proposals for voting for this rule and these rules since my submission. But there's a consensus vote in the room, you know. In order to obtain this decision, it was necessary to find the number of deputies to support it. For your part, you made certain demarches and just left a few people in the hall, didn't vote. It was therefore virtually impossible to implement the rule. When, in the follow-up process, including with the participation of the President, within the framework of the coalition, as well as the deputies who today support democratic development in the State, we have found appropriate support and sufficient votes, today this document is presented in your debate in the Chamber. And I would be extremely pleased if your faction would fully support this draft order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u33	Upstairs, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u34	The Supreme, the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Dear Alexander Sergeyevich! Your bill is entitled “Regarding the transparency and democraticity of local elections”. Now let's literally look at the second amendment of your bill. It refers to article 13 “Publicity and openness of the electoral process”. And in this amendment, you're subtracting a rule that provides an opportunity to familiarize the electorate with the pre-election programs of candidates for deputies and candidates for the post of rural, rural, urban heads. This means that during the elections, the election committee will not contribute to the fact that the electorate really knows what programs the candidates are going with. That's the first one. And the second. I mean, do you think it's physically possible for 20,000 people to submit to the CTC within four or three days an application regarding the formation of territorial election committees?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u35	You know, I think it's possible for me to answer your question. If the political parties and the candidates who represent them do work, not on a case-by-case basis, but on a permanent basis, they have a sufficiently structured system to incorporate into the rules that are drafted by the bill, rather than delaying the election campaign in Ukraine for eternity, moving from one to the other, public and more precisely the money of the people. That's the first one. On the second question. Where a deputy wishes to reach out to his electorate or candidate, he will also reach through programmes that will be published in the relevant media and through personal meetings. If you want to conduct elections in the middle, just to get your election programs out, you expect people to back you up, I doubt that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u36	John the Rabbit transmits the right to the question to Jaroslav Jojik. Please, it's jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u37	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, the entire country recently witnessed how under the slogan of support from the Ukrainian producer, the Party of the Regions submitted the Tax Code, which shocked the entire country. A party of regions came to power, promising stability in the state. This stability in its execution is seen by raising gas prices and increasing retirement age. Today you're talking again about the democratization of the electoral process, but really under this law 80-90 percent of the members of all commissions will represent today's coalition. Do you not think that all of this indicates that one thing is true and the other is the corporate style of the Party of Regions and of today’s coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u38	No, I don't think so. I believe that the corporate style of the representatives of the BET is the interception of the facts they have been doing for a very long time. That's the first one. With regard to specific issues. According to Ukrainian nationals, I do not want to specify which party. With regard to the specific questions you have asked. With regard to the Tax Code, we have been thinking a lot about new people lately. From what I understand, one of the new faces was. was in the chapter of the code that we discussed with you in the first version. Including the faction of the Party of the Regions. By decision of the Political Council of the Party of the Regions, we categorically disagreed with the Code by sending it on second reading and for major processing, and invited everyone in our country to participate in its discussion by publishing this document publicly. Therefore, I do not know who or what he is doing, but we are open to all our obligations to the people to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u39	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. In the case of draft law, registration number 7043-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u40	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! On July 10 you witnessed how no proposal -- principle, no principle -- was taken into account by a valid coalition. [[I emphasize, no offer!]] I just threw it away. They pretended that there was no opposition. They abused the opposition at the time of the adoption of the law, taking no breaks, in violation of the Rules, laws, and the Constitution. Now, when you paid for the money, Alexander Sergiyovich, you said there was a lot of money. You've now made corrections on 143 pages, on 1434 pages. Unfortunately, this is the case when the chief said the number didn't go up, 143 pages remained 143 pages. Because of this, I want to remind you that article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine establishes that we have sovereignty and the only source of power in Ukraine is the people and the people exercise power directly through the authorities of the state and the authorities of local self-government. The right to determine and change this system belongs exclusively to the people and cannot be usurped by the State and the authorities, or by officials, and including the Presidents. Thus, the Supreme Council should ensure that representatives of the people are able to exercise their rights, including through the introduction of open lists, when voters, rather than party leaders, will determine who, in which orderness will be able to be elected to authorities, tired and local self-government. I would like to point out that my bill is aimed at that and that's why we wrote that after the vote. in the voting process, this is article 69, after. the candidate in the buffers against the words “from the list of selected local party organisations will support the candidate” the number of which has the right to pass the candidate number. It is in many civilized countries of the world, most of them, more loyal. Why don't we? Why do we say that for five years the people will suffer and then we will do so? I want our people to have rights guaranteed by the Constitution right now. I agree with the suggestions made, with the distinguished colleagues of Yatsenuk and Biryuk, when it comes to the primary party organisations in the areas of cities, the cities that are part of the districts, the areas that should be given the right to nominate candidates. There is a need for a clearer definition of individuals who do not have the right to participate in elections to local self-government bodies, such as those who vote, are members of electoral committees that are assigned to certain positions, determining that such may be effective citizens of Ukraine who do not become citizens, or under the authority of another State, or who have obtained permission from another State to reside permanently in its territory or to have documents drawn up for permanent residence outside Ukraine. Needs clarification and clarification of the responsibilities of the bodies that take part in the electoral process, to speed up the information of the electoral process and society as a whole and primarily through websites to reduce the cost of the electoral process. It is also proposed to eliminate the law-based discriminatory restrictions on the majority ruling faction, which are the ones under which the territorial commissions are formed by the submission of local organizations, only represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the current convening of political parties. Only those local party organizations that are registered no later than 365 days before the election day have the right to submit candidates to the local elections. It's also a restriction that postponing mayors from parties, putting them under coalition parties is savagery in the face of further impoverishment and the search for political enemies. It's a shame to see when the important measures after a conversation conducted by the relevant members of the Security Service, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, who simply claim that you, gentlemen of the measure, cannot work if you're not from a coalition party, and more precisely from one party, than the Party of the Regions, you're useless. This rule has to be cleaned, it's a savage rule. It does not consolidate with the society of cities; it does break it apart. That is why it must be removed from this law. To ensure that the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens are protected and that local elections are held in conditions that are indeed democratic and transparent, my project proposes: to form territorial election committees for the submission of registered candidates. order in an appropriate administrative and territorial unit of local political party organisations whose parliamentary faction was created by election to the Supreme Council of the current convening, a political party that belongs to the constituency of which the parliamentary faction was created by election results, all others other than those referred to in paragraph 1.2 of this section of the political parties that intend to nominate candidates for the appropriate local elections, except those who were registered more than 10 years ago on the date of this submission and did not, during this time, no candidates for the election of the President of Ukraine and the election of the Ukrainian national deputies. I directly propose to make changes to the Final and Transitional Regulations, where I will oblige the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to apply to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, within a week of the publication of this law, to comply with the requirements of article 24 of the Political Parties Act, with the application for annulment of the registration certificates of political parties which did not issue their candidates for the election of the President of Ukraine and the election of Ukraine's national deputies for 10 years from the date of their registration. That would be the end of the discussion as to whether 140 or 150 political parties exist in Ukraine. Their vast majority must be eliminated by this very law and democratically absolutely. I also suggest that candidates from the subjects mentioned in this article be included in the territorial election committees for the results of the drawdown conducted by the electoral commission, which forms the composition of the respective territorial election committee no later than the second day following the election day. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to understand and understand the general electoral law provided for in article 3 of our law. Amendments are to be made that the right to vote in the election of deputies is vested in effective citizens of Ukraine who are not in the citizenship of another State, or have obtained permission from another State to reside permanently in its territory or have issued documents to leave for permanent residence outside Ukraine. The changes should also be appropriate for correspondence and the right to be elected, which is a change to article 9 of this law, where it also has the right to be elected a citizen who is not a citizen of another state or who has been granted permission by another State to reside permanently in its territory or who has issued documents to leave for permanent residence outside Ukraine and who is 18 years of age on the day of the vote. The analysis that we have to allow us to say that these people with dual citizenship today are extremely large, extremely large in different border regions. I don't want to focus today on this particular, because it doesn't have a bearing right now, it just has to be taken into account by us, too. I am also moved by article 19, which provides that the head, deputy, and secretary of the territorial election commission should be appointed by various parties to submit the local party organizations so that there is no usurpation of one party. This should be clearly predicted that this should be represented in the Supreme Council and not represented in the Supreme Council by the factions or factions themselves in the bloc with other parties. I also think that we should work very seriously with you on other aspects of democracy or non-democraticism, as has been said today. I'm turning from this high rostrum to the President of Ukraine, to the heads of law enforcement. First, preparations for the local elections show that the election campaign uses the capacity of law enforcement agencies. I urge you not to do this! Let the Security Service, the IMF, the prosecutor’s office, and the tax attorney handle their solely direct duties, do not interfere with the formation of lists, the formation of measures, the installation of hearings in political parties and everything else you are doing today, which is already confirmed in Crimea, elsewhere. As a result, I call for harmony and unity for Ukraine’s future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Prokopchuk, BUT faction,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u42	Yuri Prokorpchuk, “Fatherland” Party of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Ravenshkina. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, of course, your bill was also intended to address such issues as the number and number of parties, which are unfortunately sometimes referred to as projects -- projects under the elections, under the locals, under the Supreme Council. Then these projects fly and no one mentions them. Because there's a notion of a party, it's a constant system that has its historical, political path, the way of fighting, participation in social and political social processes, and so on. But if we take more than 180 parties today, and everyone, for example, has two representatives, it's going to be more than the average area in the village, so the whole village is going to be board members. Will this ensure objectivity, or will this actually provide a means of providing, including where they are supposed to work? And will that really be the calculation that should be objective? If you're going to go all the way out now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u43	Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, unfortunately, you obviously didn't have the opportunity to get to know my suggestions. And I obviously didn't have the ability to bring them all to you right now, because I couldn't get everything on these pages to your knowledge. The point is that the number of members of the committee should be 15. And I'm talking about drawing lots. And I've been talking about that when you talk about it. and was asked in July about political party participation and restrictions, and decided that 365 days if unregistered. This question is obviously not in the register, but the question is whether these parties are doing what is stipulated by law. And the parties are created to take part in the elections. If they did not take part in the election of the President or the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies, it is clear that such parties for 10 years do not have the right to exist, according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u44	Ivan Stojko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u45	Thank you, thank you. Ivan Stojko. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” Dear Mr. Yuri! Indeed, there was no way to get to know each other in detail. But from what I've heard, really, what you're concerned about in your bill, in the Arsenius Yatsenuk bill, is really important for Ukraine. Because elections should be democratic, not broad, as we are told. And I want to say that for today, what we've been offered is not the way to democracy. Because the TVC will be under the control of the center. Any candidate can be removed, according to the Ephraim bill. The heads of city councils, the candidates, more loyally, are actually being driven into a single party that is now in charge. And don't you think it's a smoke screen, a change to the law? It's like they're putting the parties in the election and throwing the bone, and actually leaving the law behind. No matter how they vote, it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleague, Mr. Ivan! I want to tell you that you're absolutely right, starting from the bottom, that the increased role of CEVC in the local elections is completely unjustified. One. The other one. It's just nonsense because it's impossible to provide what's going on. And there is a potential for strong influence and pressure on democratic forces. Just to make it democratically work to set up the Constitution for direct and direct elections, I have an open list institution. When the electorate determines what your place will be. If the party identified you as 105 and the electorate put you first, that means, and more of those voters were found, that means you're going through, and you're chosen by the electorate. I mean, it's part of your political power. The same is true of other political forces. This project is aimed at democratization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u47	Anatoly Matvienko, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u48	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block. Mr. Jury, I support your concern, knowing you as a person who always analyzes any bill in accordance with the Constitution. I'd like to say how much you've taken into account in an adopted law of violation of the Constitution. And first. And the second. I'd like you to comment on one of those violations. We build local self-government from a basic level, and the area and the area are equal to the local self-government of the common interests of the territorial communities. We are in this law, which is passed, we see a new power vertical -- it's the territorial commissions, when the higher territorial commission subordinates itself to the lower -- it's absurd, which no one has ever seen before, but unfortunately, it's also one of the rules of gross violation of the Constitution. I'd like you to comment on the whole thing, including this savage rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich. I know that you know very well the legislation on local elections and, let's say, foreign practice, the practice of civilized countries. What is being proposed today, even when election committees are subordinated, is absolutely allogic, anti-constitutional. If you want to know how many violations I see right now, I've listed 12, 12 serious violations of the Constitution, if it wasn't for the Kumov Constitutional Court, this law should have just been declared unconstitutional. That's why I'm proposing now and engaging in a comprehensive reform of this law. And I call upon the colleague of Ephraim, the colleague of Chechtov, the other colleagues, let's take part in the proposals that you have made, and those that have now spoken, who will give the national MPs, because this law has been made by the apprehension made to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u50	Thank you. Sit down, Yuri Anatoliovich, time is up. From the committee to the presentation of a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Kazinuk Aleksandr Rostislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on 30 August this year, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed drafts of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[Registration numbers: 7043-1, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine to Ephraim, 7043, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Yacenuk, 7040, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Biryukov]] The bill filed by Yuri Carmazin was not considered by the 7043-2 committee, but was not on the committee. First of all, I want to stop at Bill 7043-1, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine to Ephraim. A bill defining the subject of the legislative initiative is aimed at ensuring the transparency and democracy of the local elections. With a view to carrying out effective legislation in line with democratic international standards, the bill proposes: first, to remove restrictions on the possibility of local elections of local political parties registered later than 365 days before the election day, and to allow all local political parties to nominate their candidates, secondly, to complement the composition of the territorial election committees at the expense of 3 representatives identified by drawing from the number of candidates from local political parties, not just those represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, 15 members of the local political party organizations represented in Parliament, as well as 3 of the candidates submitted by local political parties, will be members of the territorial election committees. The third is to make the necessary technical changes to the law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 27 August 2010 agrees with the need for a comprehensive improvement of the provisions of the current law, which contains shortcomings both in the substantive and technical legal plan. At the same time, most of the proposals made by Ukraine’s national deputy Alexander Efremov received a favorable assessment, and in general the bill is proposed to be adopted on the basis of the comments made. The committee notes that the bill with registration number 7043-1 is indeed complex and aimed at improving the quality of the entire legal and regulatory material that governs most aspects of the preparation and conduct of local elections. In one way or another, the changes that have been made touch the contents of the 55 articles in the 91st article, which includes the law, as well as its final and transitional provisions. By listening to information from the subcommittee. Having examined the position of Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee invited to the meetings, having considered the conclusion of the Main Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and having discussed the issues, the committee approved to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Urban Heads, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Ephraim, and the outcome of the first reading, by entrusting the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the task of drafting and reviewing the draft legislation. [[Registration number 7043-1]] As far as the bill is concerned, the committee decided to reject these bills as a result of the first reading of the bill. [[Registration No. 7043, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Arsenius Yatsenuk and 7040, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Biryukov]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, please report to the committee representative. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Commissioner, I would like to ask you whether the committee has not seen the guilt of the committee on the grounds that such mass violations of the Constitution are in the law and that they continue to be. Because the control of each other's boards over all other alliances to the Central Electoral Commission and so forth, it's unheard of, never in the history of Ukraine has there been such a nightmare. Such expenses as should never have been incurred. And if we are to reform legislation, do you not think that we should go to the constitutional standard of open political lists of political parties? I mean, let the citizen say with his voice that he will support a hundred candidatures, and so this hundred moves on in his development. How do you think you're going to keep working on this bill? Chi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I believe so and the committee's decision has been taken very carefully and there are no violations of the Constitution of Ukraine in a bill that was still under consideration in July or today. That's why I think your view is a little biased with this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u55	Olga Bodnar, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u56	Thank you. The "Fatherland" Party, the "Julia Timoshenko Block". Olga Bodnar. Dear colleague, I'd like to make it clear that you said from our committee that we're rejecting the Yatzenuk and Biruk project, that's not entirely true. We talked about what we're taking into account the norms that are, are in this, in these bills when we adopt the first reading of the Ephraim bill. But you were sitting today at a committee meeting and you heard a representative of the Central Electoral Commission saying that the Central Election Commission would not be able to handle the terms of the bill because, by increasing the number of subjects of the electoral process who have the right to participate and taking into account the procedure, the submission of documents to the Central Electoral Commission would result in more than 10,000 entities having to be processed by the lawyers of the Central Electoral Commission in a day or so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u57	Dear colleague, if I'm not mistaken, at a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u58	One minute, I'm sorry, let me finish the Bodnar question. Please, the microphone, and then you'll answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u59	Thank you, thank you. How are you going to run these elections, or are they going to break the electoral process in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u60	An honourable colleague, if not mistaken, at a committee meeting you made an offer either to enact laws or to reject them. Therefore, only two questions were raised on the committee: Who is responsible for adopting the bill or rejecting it? Therefore, Alexander Sergiyovich’s bill took on the majority, and the rest of the bills were not drafted by the majority. As for the work of the Central Electoral Commission, I want to tell you that the parties represented today in the Supreme Council have their representatives on the Central Electoral Commission. For our representatives on the Central Electoral Commission, we guarantee that they will work in an orderly manner and in a timely manner take the decision of the Central Electoral Commission. It's up to you how your representatives of the Central Electoral Commission will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is up. Alexander Rostislavovich, please sit down. Thank you. Let us now turn to this question. Please register with the factions for the performance, from the factions. So 15 minutes from the factions, and then 30 minutes from the people's deputies directly for the performance. Yes, factions have registered. Now, if you'd like to sign up, sign up for the National Deputies. Please, colleagues, let's sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, we adopted the Local Elections Act in the summer. It was intended to elect a democratically capable and, above all, responsible authority after 31 numbers. The worst quality of power at any level is when power is irresponsible. To that end, a rule had been introduced that allowed parties to participate in the elections, which had been registered for at least a year. To ensure that the electorate at the regional level understand what these parties have done in the Territory, as they have been involved in dealing with the mundane issues of concern to the electorate of the Territory. On the other hand, criticism by political opponents, the public, was critical of international experts. And in my view, the power, the democracy of power, is when power can listen, it can hear comments and criticism and sometimes adjust its decisions. In this situation, we understand that the image and reputation of the country depend on the extent to which they will be recognized by the international public. Why did the country’s reputation and image rise sharply? Yes, because the election of the president, who has recognized the whole world, has passed. The full legitimacy of Yanukovic's election was recognized by the whole world. This opened the capitals of European States. Gives the world a round of applause for Yanukovich's speech in Washington. There's been a relationship with Russia. Today he left for Germany and other things. It is therefore necessary for the world public to recognize these elections as democratic and as free as the presidential elections in order to strengthen their image in the future. And in this situation, we have gone to a correction of the principle of allowing political parties to participate in elections that have been registered for less than a year. Of course, this now imposes greater responsibility on the electorate, since they will need to be dealt with as soon as possible, and who do they choose to do so, will they be able to do so? Time, as the chess players say, on the flag. And so it doesn't happen after the election, they'll grab their heads again, and who did we pick? But I think I believe in the wisdom of the people that people will understand and vote for those political parties that will be able to tackle the problems of the regions in a serious way. On the other hand, of course, we are expanding the size of the territorial electoral commissions and will allow for the introduction of representatives of political parties who do not have a factional representation. This will ensure that the voting procedure is as objective as possible immediately after the elections. And I hope that the Ephremov Bill, in my view, without diminishing the dignity of other bills, is the best bill, should be voted on, because it actually accumulates those comments that have been made by the public, which must be taken into account in the law, in order for the elections to take place as democratically, honestly, objectively as possible, and for the world to recognize these elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Olga Bodnar, “Blok Timoshenko”, followed by Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Olga Bodnar, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yulia Block. What I'm saying right now is that what we're seeing today is not that the authorities are correcting their mistakes, but that the authorities could have passed their 2nd exam and asked to stay out of the electoral process in general. What do we have today? We have four bills today, three of which are very loud. The authors who have been trying so hard to explain in July that we can't adopt the law that is now in the area of local elections. My statement will be whether or not there's any reason to take 7043-3. One?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Mr. Ephraim? I don't see it without ensuring transparency, not the democraticity of local elections. Dear colleagues, if we're talking about the narrowing down of the list of people who will have the right to participate, and that's democratic, I can say that in no European country will we be understood. Today, we have a law on voter registration, which stipulates that participation in elections is envisaged at an electoral address rather than at a place of registration. I would like to remind you that the price of residence has already been abolished by our 1996 Constitution. I can't understand why the author still hasn't paid so much attention to what society has been shouting at him and his authorities, that there are no self-reliants in the measure of cities. This is also not included in the bill. Instead, the subordination of power is being built. The top board will now manage the lower board even by the number of its members. I think we're going back to the worst steel times in this question. I can't understand what the transparency and democracy of this bill is, which says that elections will take place in special areas, but at the same time, there will be no law on the obligation to report to the DVC that the electorate will vote in the special room. Why is this being done? For the sake of transparency? I think it's for quantity. And in order to be able to run on those crutches somewhere else and vote. I can't understand why the author, if he wants democracy and transparency of elections, didn't pay attention to the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the OSCE and didn't remove the possibility of holding local elections along with a referendum, for example? Or he failed to point out that PARE and OSCE had been repeatedly called to attention again and again, that a rule should be removed that provided for the possibility of voting against all, therefore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u65	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u66	Because such a vote does not at all correspond to the nature of the constitutional right of citizens to form representative local authorities. Dear colleagues! The faction will not vote for this bill. On the first reading, we propose to support Bill 7040 of our colleague Biruk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u67	Thank you, too. Oleg Zarubinski, please. Jaroslav Kenzier will be next. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, obviously no one can deny in this room that there was no law in Ukraine that would be accepted by all 100 percent with pleasure, all the more with admiration. Obviously these are the realities of Ukrainian, real Ukrainian political. And so it's obvious that the optimal option, when the law is complex, when it's a code, and it's going to work for at least 10 to 15 years. This can then really be a point of compromise. In this case, if we didn't accept it, everything would be critical, everything would be just as unhappy. Once again, these are Ukrainian realities. But I didn't take the floor for that. I want to dedicate my little speech to you, and, distinguished journalists, I want to address you for one reason only, because there are so many manipulations around it, or from the superficial knowledge of legislation, or from the conscious, that it's hard to figure out. This is about one norm: about the famous 365 days that the local organization needs to be registered to present its candidates. I have in my hands the Law on political parties in Ukraine, which is still in 2001. Here is the norm: “For six months from the date of registration, the political party ensures the establishment and registration of its regional, city, district, regional organizations in most areas of Ukraine, the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In fact, some today mentioned the 2007 Constitutional Court’s decision, which defines the unconstitutional sense of compulsory creation and registration in cities, areas, and areas. That's absolutely logical. Who can force the political party to create an organization in the area, in the village, in the city, if it doesn't want to. But in that case, she obviously has limited opportunities to put out candidates if they are candidates for the district council from the area, not the Kiev race, from the Kiev office at the expense of the chief. You have to understand that perfectly. One second. This Law has not repealed “On Ukraine’s political parties” article 24: “Cancellation of the registration certificate”. In the event that the political party fails to comply with the requirements of part six of this law, the body that has registered the political party, which is the Ministry of Justice, should refer to the Supreme Court of Ukraine for annulment of the registration certificate. It's all there. All the voices, sorry for that word, all the screams about the injustice of this norm come out from those who bought a direct party under the key, because it was created and registered by other people, and then they didn't comply with the law, and they didn't create any district or city, no organizations, because they were parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u69	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u70	Thus, respectable colleagues, do not listen to manipulations, officials of the media. If there is a political party, it creates its own organizations. If it is simply a tool to realize the ambitions of one person or a group of people, it exists in an excellent office in Kiev and sends its prefects or guinea pigs to the districts. Do people need such parties? It's a big question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u71	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u72	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It's very good that the coalition has matured to the idea that all parties are equal, and people have the right to choose which party to vote for, not wait for instructions from above. Except that these same people had the maturity of the ruling coalition cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, because it was possible to avoid this anti-constitutional norm without calling an extraordinary meeting, adopting it in the state plenary when this law was discussed in quite detail in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Again, taxpayers paid money for returning to a problem that they could have solved earlier when discussing the law. That's the first one. The other one. It seems that the main issue is the question of parties that can and cannot participate in elections. And for us, no, for us, the main question is the democratic nature of these very local elections. Look at the standards proposed by election committees. It forms a vertical for local elections, the CTC essentially determines the composition of the TVC, the TVC determines the composition of the TVC, the local communities that have no influence on the process. In doing so, all of these parties are again divided into many varieties: the Party of Regions and the Company first introduce their representatives to the committees, and this is defined and provided for by law, then those who enter the blocs, and then the whole other political world. So the coalition majority in any commission whose vertical is created is provided. And the steel standard works -- the right one that counts the votes. Not the right voters who voted in one way or another, but the right one who formed this particular vertical of the election committees. This, the honourable electorate, is the main question, not whether these parties will now participate in the elections or not. The parties that are popular will still find the opportunity to prove this popularity and find a way to people, and if they count the votes that people have voted differently, it's not democracy anymore. And then what do you say in Europe? I can imagine, but it'll be too late. Third. Why don't you just let the mayor hang himself? Why? There is no such norm in any of the bills. And we insist on it. Four. Why don't you let the blocks? Any block: left, right, centrist. Is that constitutional? Democrat? No! No! And a lot of other issues that the coalition doesn't solve. Why can any member of the committee. For some kind of inadequacy at any time? Why can you take out any candidate, essentially without a quorum decision of any commission? These are the main questions that the bills that have been tabled do not answer. So we think that not all problems are solved, and there are dozens of more important problems behind the problem, which is resonant. This will be taken into account by the “For Ukraine!” vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u73	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Prepare Andrey Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u74	Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! The consideration of the draft Law on the Amendment of the Law has once again revealed a number of very serious problems, which accompany the development of the political structure of our society on the road to Ukrainian civil society. But I think we need to make some fundamental conclusions in order to change and what we need to do in the near future to avoid such, very serious miscalculations, mistakes, and more so when we use an electoral campaign to falsify the will of our constituents. The first conclusion and it is evident that the effectiveness of the law of anyone depends on how many voters, that is, our people of Ukraine, will vote first for their interests, not for the interests of large capital, sold during the electoral campaign and sold their interests. That is what the country's fate and the fate of the promises made by the political forces depend on. Second, the infinity of amendments to the Electoral Law, and we are almost every time, approaching that date, making changes, so this infinity of changes is determined by the invention and introduction of technologies to deceive voters. And this is exactly what a team is using these technologies to legitimize them in law and deceive voters again. Thirdly, it has become clear that we have business today not only in the areas where it must exist first, but also in the business sector. Business today is both the creation of*** banks and the sale of banks, especially to the benefit of our dealers, sell to foreign entities banks that in fact paralyse the Ukrainian economy and exclude the possibility of the development of a domestic producer. Likewise, so-called, business penetrations today and in the political structures of society are being created for sale. And there are some of the pieces here, one of them was here from this rostrum, proposing the law. I bought myself a party, I bought an unquality party, well, that's his problems, not his problems, not the problems of Ukrainian society. That's how a party buys to distract voters. A public conscience is being falsified. All of this shows that the interests of the people of Ukraine are distant in the declarations***, which are proclaimed by the representatives of large capital. I would also like to draw further attention to the fact that we are today forming civil society and should exclude all that is involved today in the falsification of public consciousness, when political parties, including those who are buying, are trying to influence the results of the elections. Therefore, the comrades here, when they talk about the existence of the blocs, each time they declare their positions, then hide behind the bloc, naturally fail to perform them, fall apart, buy a business position, and try to hide behind the bloc again for the next election. This has to end and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u75	Please give me the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u76	The Company's faction today proposes to vote in favour of these changes. But we warn, and above all, we turn to our constituents. The fate of this law is in your hands above all. If you vote for your interests, then no large capital will ever again be able to deceive you by promising you the golden mountains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u77	Andrew Shevchenko, please. The right to speak is passed on to the Elder, isn't it? Please, Upstairs, Faction BUT. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u78	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, the elections that are scheduled for October 31st, I think we can boldly say today that these will be the election of members of the Party of the Regions by MPs and rural, village, city heads. Why? Because the law that is now being considered by the author of Ephraim is precisely that. We all know the Stalin principle very well with you: “No matter how they vote, how important they count”. So let's take a very careful look at how election committees will be formed. First of all, the territorial election committees. Of course, democratically, when everyone gives out, it's very good. But who will choose the members of the commission from these submissions, and in what way? Clearly, this will be done by the CFC, which is now fully controlled by the Party of the Regions. And 15 people from those parties that are represented in Parliament are taken by decision, and the other people who are rejecting, and those people that I'm counting on might be about 30, they just reject without a decision, without any argument, and they can't even press charges in court. Then these 15 persons will properly form divisional commissions in the same way. Let me tell you more, let's look at the deadlines for commission formation. The law clearly states that the application is not later than 49 days, not later. It's September 11th. What is the form of the application? The form that the CTC sets up is also no later than September 11. And it turns out that on September 11th, at its meeting, the CBC sets up the form and on the same day says, “Please make a submission by the end of the day.” Guess how many times the party will submit, what party will know in advance the form that Achindowski will approve and similar there. That's why I don't think this bill can be adopted today. What is more, it is important for Parliament today to think very hard when holding elections. I think we need to move the election to a minimum of one month, which is about 20 November, and until then, all the terms for the election campaign need to be determined. Today, indeed, at a meeting of the committee, CTC officials said that at the point of the law, it was almost impossible to hold elections, but they could only be falsified. And last but not least, the standard proposed today by the author of Ephraim on the fact that the elector is the one who has a registered residence is contrary to the Law on the State Register of Voters. And CLTC officials also said that in recent times some 100,000 voters have changed their electoral address.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u79	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u80	So we have the term 'choice address'. And last of all, the vote on the house. If we've been working today when people who can't move themselves and that's known to everyone, they're automatically included in the list and they're voting at home. This standard is now being ruled out by the Party of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u81	Andrey Pavlovsky, the BUT faction, is transferring the right to speak to Vladimir Yavorowski, also to the BUT faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u82	Dearly beloved Ukrainian voters, perhaps many of you feel that this premature discovery of the political season is a sign that the nerves in today's power and those in power are surrendering. I just want to remind those who are now listening to us first, please follow the fate of those political parties that had a monopoly on power, starting with Communistism. Please think of Medvechuk's Social Democrats, who have literally captured almost everything they can, and today, with the latest information from the Social Democrats' Party, they've turned off their phones for nonpayment, they have nothing to pay for their phones and their premises. [[United]] Because of this, I am convinced that today's attempt to repeat this vicious and infamous path has become a party of power and a party of regions. The bill that will be adopted today is not because logic works, not because we want to take steps towards democracy, but because our colleague Mikhailo Chechetov either waves his hand or disappears. And that's where our whole choice ends. I would like to emphasize in particular one, perhaps the most perverse sign of this law that the regionals have made completely beneath themselves, thinking that it will save them from the enormous disappointment that exists in Ukrainian society today. I've also mentioned the Chernobyls, and I've mentioned the veterans of war, who just go around in the courts, let them go. The authorities appeal to their citizens who should be protected. That's why I want to say the worst thing about this law is that Ukraine has been divided by a religious principle over the years, and this dissection lasts until today, it's been divided east and west, and we know that it was done by free politicians, because in the early 1990s no one talked about it. I am a participant in these events, and I know very well. Today, Ukraine has been divided into oligarchs and people who barely survive. That's not enough for you, you still want to divide Ukraine by another principle -- that's about 96 percent there or 95 percent of the ordinary people, and the rest are members of the party. You want to divide society into party members and not party members. I've communicated with many mayors of cities, decent people who still have a conscience and who believe me, die, don't want to go to the Party of Regions. Because they realize that this end will be absolutely infamous. But they are forced to do so today. That's why I'm convinced that all these manipulations you're making won't save you even if you vote on these laws today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u83	Sergey Sobolev, BUT faction. Next up will be the Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u84	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! What has happened in these days? Why is it that the Party of Regions and their satellites decided to become such Democrats that they suddenly decided to change the Electoral Law? I think there's been a key problem. A party of regions understands that, in fact, today, in order to hold elections under a law that they passed literally two months ago, these elections are completely unrealistic. First, let's see how territorial election committees are formed. But in the law this principle is defined in such a way that, in fact, those parties that have formed the blocs and are now in Parliament will not be able to effectively submit the members of the territorial election committees, according to this law. It's different. We have for the first time in the history of independence, the electoral boards are formed not by drawing lots, not by defining local self-government, not by equal representation, as it was in the previous presidential elections. Where representation in district election committees, including management positions, was clearly distributed between the majority and the opposition, and followed the law to ensure that, for God's sake, the representatives of the majority and the opposition were the highest priority in the formation of such commissions, and thus more senior positions. In this law, this order is not defined at all. Moreover, this law allows for everything to be done with the district election boards. So you can change any rule of law. But the key norm remains, as is the formation of the electoral boards. And they're formed in the original way. The territorial commissions, which will have the full advantage of today’s majority, which the people did not vote for, and which won the minority in the elections that preceded Parliament. In fact, they will determine who is a professional and who is not a professional in a district election committee. In general, the order for the decision-making of the electoral boards is given to the territorial electoral commission itself. That's why the vote count in the election is going to be run by the electoral boards that are assigned to today's coalition. That's why this law, which has been passed, and it's the 365-day rule, about the kind of other democratic standards, doesn't really change anything in the electoral process. This law allows the election race to falsify the results of the elections, to make them what the district election commission wants. That's why this law actually does not define anything for the process of shaping the real will of citizens. That's why our faction proposes to vote in favour of the law of Lviv Biruk, which really changes at least the order that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u86	which allows for the formation of a democratic principle that really allows for the formation of local self-government bodies, based on the will of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u87	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Greenewecko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, in my view, this session should not have been if the previous authorities had faithfully fulfilled their constitutional obligation. The elections were to take place in March months, would have ended, you would have had new authority in places. What did the previous authorities not do? They didn't accept three things -- it didn't change the Constitution, it didn't make new legislation, and it didn't change the legislation, which was the basis for new elections to the local authorities. And the main thing is that she didn't accept the budget in this budget, and because she didn't accept it, there's certainly no money for the election. This is somewhat absurd when predecessors criticize the present - day authority that corrected the situation. You know, in the village, it's kind of like, when some bum and a bum didn't pick up the land in time, didn't plant it, and the neighbors came together and then, somewhere later, they came closer to the summer, and they did fix the situation and the stars, and they sowed something. Good for someone who knows the earth and realizes that we can sow here. He's already woken up, he's getting cold feet, he's starting to criticise, he's not sore, he's not sown. Today, this criticism is at your disposal. Because the authorities found themselves in a position of objectivity when it was necessary to change legislation quickly, to make the right decision, because the process under the old electoral law would have begun, and we could not have changed anything. But also on your conscience today, from March of the month to this day, most urban and rural heads are illegal. And the one who will come to his senses will go to court and quietly cancel the decisions they have signed. It's on your conscience. Now, the question of finding motivation, why this is happening, is that we are now in a hurry to correct the situation. First of all, because we are correcting because of your fundamental mistake and criminal inaction. The other one. Don't look for Moscow's hand here, Washington. Let's make some historic decision for ourselves that these hands have already dried up in the 19th year. What do you insult the honor and dignity of the Ukrainians? Why do you speak so humiliatingly of our nation and the Ukrainian people? It is the goodwill of both the President and the government, and most of the present one, which is in a constructive dialogue with society, that this issue be brought up today. Because we want elections to take place in a timely manner, elections to take place in a new legislative field, on a new legislative basis, and democratically. And that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u89	Sergei Greenewecki. Next up will be Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the 20th year of independence, we do not hold elections to local councils for the first time, and unfortunately, all elections follow new legislation, and the next legislation turns out to be worse than the previous one. Why did this happen? I think the reason here is that at the beginning of our independence, constitutional and intellectual hegemony in the state was formed at the expense of Western elite representatives and economic hegemony at the expense of Eastern elite representatives. And it's clear that in 20 years, we haven't solved the main issue for our state -- property issues. Therefore, the corporate selfish majority, which was formed behind closed lists at the local level, resulted in large losses - loss of the substance of local self-government, what is recorded in the 140th article of the Constitution, that “local self-government is the right of the territorial citizen of the village, the village, the city to decide its questions according to the Constitution and the laws”. Today, there is much to be said about unpopular reforms. I think the most unpopular reform of these years is to abide by the Constitution and the laws. This isn't popular. Especially what we're proposing. Of course, we need to make the changes that have been made by both the Central Electoral Commission and the experts and the practitioners and the Chief Legal Authority, and those that Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov has made, we will support. But it seems to me that on November 3, when the Supreme Council begins its work after October 31st, we should put to the vote and process the electoral code. In order to adopt the electoral code, as a rule, and in transitional situations, this may also need to be amended in the Constitution by such laws as the electoral code, the Law on the Fundamentals of Internal and External Policy should be stated that only two thirds, i.e. by a constitutional majority, are being amended. Then we will not adjust to political relevance, but we will see clearly the prospects for development, including local self - government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u91	Jaroslav Georgik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u92	Jaroslav Georgik, Ukrainian National Party Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, if we analyze the statements made by the representatives of the Party of the last period, they are too often returning to our Soviet communist past, the past, which is certainly not a moment of light, and at the same time it is past repression and past famines. After the introduction. The establishment of a Stalin monument in Zaporozhye Prime Minister stated that “life has become better, life has become happier”. Of course, after the increase in gas prices and the beginning of an increase in retirement age, life has become better for the Mafia than for the common citizen. Another prominent member of the Party of the Soviets, Mikhailo Chechetov, said that it was 37-38 years in which tens of thousands of former Soviets died in repression, nothing turned out to be terrible, and it was happening in the face of mass arrests across the country. As Joseph Stalin knows, he said: “It doesn’t matter who votes or how votes, it’s important who counts.” And that's what the coalition realizes today both in the current law and in the additions they have today. It is in the existing bill that mechanisms are put in place when members of the coalition are usually counted. Why do I say that? But because TVK is formed from parties and blocks that have representation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So both the parties and the blocks have three drawers to the TVC. And let's say the nine parties that have entered the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" Block on this approach will have less than nine times the representatives of the same Party of Regions and Communists, all of the niche parties will have as much theoretical as at least three times less. So the coalition's representatives in the next election commission will have 80-90 percent of the total. What results we can discuss! So you want to ask the representatives of the Party of Regions, is that your way of democratizing the electoral law? Do you not think it is time to stop in this direction of Soviet totalitarianism? After all, the experience of the person who contributed most to this process of totalitarianism was his first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u93	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u94	and therefore the Ukrainian People's Party urges representatives of today's coalition to stop on this shameful path of authoritarianism in Ukraine and not only to give them the right to participate in the electoral process to all parties, but also to give them the right to count the number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u95	Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Viacheslav Koval will be next. Viacheslav Koval will hand over the right to speak to Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u96	Yes, dear friends, Alexander Blackwolf, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Well, that's very nice, remember how you and I sat in this room a month and a half ago, and you were friendly about the changes I made, and you asked me to stop standing up for them because we were in a hurry. Now part of these amendments have been made in your law, I'm talking about the law of Ephraim. Well, I'm very pleased, I hope all of this will be accepted. But these amendments are very minor cosmetic adjustments, which in general will not affect the whole law in any way. This law, believe me, I, well, worked it out before, I looked it up. To be honest, no amendments will make it democratic and allow elections to be declared fair. So obviously we have to go in a very normal, simple way -- cancel our election order on October 31st of this year, postpone for six months, work out a new normal law, or even an electoral code, and then hold elections. Because if we want falsification, yes, this law is perfect. These amendments do not stop in any way. What's more, we're moving on, we're starting to cancel the elections in Kiev, it's also an initiative of the Party of Regions, that's. It's also a completely undemocratic and completely pointless action. I still don't know what's going to happen, but I think the people of Ukraine should give a certain assessment of these anti-democracy actions. Now the essence of the law itself. Obviously, if we add to the 15 members of the commission that are elected non-democratically, we add three more, which are chosen by drawing lots, we won't get a big democracy. Obviously, cosmetic changes in how the commissions will work, as well as the change in the principle of allowing all political parties, will also not significantly affect it, because it is done for the sole purpose of weakening its competitors. This is done by the Party of Regions, that is, in order for those parties that have been registered to vote in the same “Fatherland” Timoshenko, other political parties. Apparently, they were wrong when they were banned from participating after a month and a half ago. It was anti-democracy. Now it's kind of democratic, but actually, I want to point out that the goal is not a democratic transformation after the improvement of this law, it's just an improvement in its election situation, because the Party of Regions ratings are sharply and rapidly falling across Ukraine, especially in central and central terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u97	Viacheslav Koval refers the right to speak to Ruslan Knazević, the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u98	Dear head, dear colleagues. Well, personally, I have this, you know, absolute sense of rain, because I remember last summer when we called several consecutive sessions specifically to improve the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Then why did he call? For example, because the first reading adopted a standard that allowed election committees to be formed only by representatives of political factions who were in parliament. Although there was no relation between the parliamentary factions and the President's election, as you recall. And that caused a serious wave of resentment in Parliament, in society. In view of these circumstances, the Parliament was forced to change these rules without delay. It's the same feeling now. It's just that I don't understand why, in advance, the apreiors are going to write down such standards that it's clear that they can be subjected to serious criticism, both in the context of Ukrainian politics and in the Ukrainian society, and now even outside Ukraine. Well, it's just, you know, there's already practice, so it's already in the genes of political, separate political forces of this kind of practice, and they can't give up the apriors. Given these circumstances, what is the point of changing these, let's say for me, rather cosmetic changes if we don't even touch the fundamental violations of the Constitution contained in the current Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads? The main point is that the election is now only marked by the decision of the local organization and the party. Think about it, even if you are a faithful party, even if you want to go, you just have to wait for a decision from a local centre that may not make such decisions for some subjective, not even political reasons that severely violates articles 36 and 38 of the Constitution. And so the second rule, which stipulates that in these elections the right to self-registration of a candidate for city heads is denied, which is in grave contravention of article 22 of the Constitution, which states that if such a right is already given in the law, in the following law this law cannot narrow down the rights conferred by the previous law. And I'm going to remind you that the state of self-determination for this moment was, more specifically, the previous law in the city's heads. Moreover, this law now generally establishes a norm that grossly violates the Constitution for the third time. The point is that in the current Constitution and even in the current law, there is a rule that a member of the local council and a village head may be a person who is 18 years old on election day. The drafters of the bill say that such a person should be 18 years old at the time of graduation. I mean, a month and a half before the election. What's the purpose of this mine now, I don't understand. Perhaps someone will then call through the Constitutional Court that such unconstitutional things should be abolished and repealed? I don't know. Therefore, given these circumstances, I believe that before the second reading, this bill, if adopted today, has.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u100	It has to be radically changed in terms of its constitutionality. And here, first of all, we need to listen to the findings of the General Legal Authority, which, at the previous stage, quite faithfully identified them in their conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u101	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. You have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I address you with the words that Ruslan Knyazevitch gave you. And he finished what he said, go back to the comments of the General Legal Authority, which were given for second reading. I've got them right in front of me. And the main one was that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE had repeatedly called attention to the inadmissibility of the chosen model of the proportional electoral system in Ukraine for closed party lists, which deprives voters of any possible influence on lists. Leads to the emergence of weak parties, party corporations. And I'm going to add, it's going to lead to corruption, it's going to lead to irresponsibility, and it's getting worse every day. Because of this, my main proposal is to open the lists. With regard to giving the people, Ukrainian citizens the right to determine for themselves the place on the list of that political power, the candidate for which they cast their votes. Or the right simply to support this list without changing the order of that party organization. This key point, which was made by reference to article 2 of the project, was unfortunately not changed. It needs change. The other one. The project proposes a new edition of part five of article 35 of the law, under which a person who is nominated as a candidate in a single-mandatory or single-mandatory majority constituency, a candidate for rural, rural, urban head office cannot be nominated at the same time in any other single-mandatory, single-major majority constituencies from any local election. The same is true of the ban on one person’s mooring to a number of different representative bodies. This does not take into account and contradicts the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, where it is explained that the position of part of article 38 of the Constitution, according to which citizens have the right to freely choose and be elected to the authorities of the State and local self-government bodies, should be understood that the citizen of Ukraine is entitled to be freely elected to any authority of the State, particularly the Supreme Council, to the authority of local self-government, rural, rural, district, district council, and to be elected city heads, village heads, but to implement the acquired representative mandate of citizens in only one of these bodies. [[Decision No. 7RP993 of 6 July 1999]] This distinction between the right to participate and the implementation of the mandate was not understood by the authors of the law. I'd like them to understand that. There is also a need to rule out the fact that the measures must go away from the parties. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u103	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u104	I conclude, honourable national MPs, and I urge you that, if we have already gone, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us work on and work out all the observations that have been made, and actually give a new edition of this law. But then it won't be possible to hold the October 31st elections, and then they have to move. I will vote in favour of all democratic bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have concluded our discussion. Two hours of consideration took place. There is such an offer. In view of the fact that we have an emergency session and have to make a decision on it, yes, we should now announce a 30 - minute recess. In factions, please consult with these draft laws. After the break, then the closing word will be in the interviewees, and then there will be a process, and the voting process will take place. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Then we will continue to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u106	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues! We have considered the full procedure of all the bills and, according to the Rules, the rapporteurs have the right to a closing statement, so please, in the same sequence as the reports have been made. Biruk Lev Vasilovich. He's giving up the word. I'm Arseny Petrovich. Right. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Carmazine's always ready. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin. I didn't think they'd start with me. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would still ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as representatives of the entire people of Ukraine, to take into account all the comments that are coming out of place today. That the law that we passed, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, even though we did not vote for it, convinced you that such a vote, non-democracy, non-civilization, should be completely recast. If there is a common point here, I would like my colleague Ephraim to look at how even the Committee of the Supreme Council on Local Self-Government appreciates the bill that has been tabled, which is now thought to solve this problem. And it just says here that only two questions are solved: 365 days and three additional men on board, and then it's written: technical issues are the conclusion of the committee, not my conclusion. So, dear friends, I'd like you to listen to the demands of people to open lists, so that we can do it literally and in elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that we can make a qualitative change of approach so that we can now change the approaches that are now being drawn up and there are no proposals for them, and according to the Rules, that bill that will be adopted will not be able to make any other proposals for the calculation of votes, this is part of the fourth section of Article 27 of the Law, where the vote is taken by the election committee, by the majority of the voters present, regardless of the number of members present, but not less than three members of the commission, because this approach does not take into account election committees as college bodies, and absolutely, where three men are able to make decisions, especially so that they can be accepted by a higher commission, as well as a non-collegiate committee. Here, no changes are made to this article. I'd like to draw your attention to the anti-constitutionality of this moment. I would also like to identify and make changes in article 16, part one, where we should decide what to do about the city of Inckerman, the city of Sevastopol. Also, remove the unconstitutional ban on chattering. This is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Also to remove other violations of the Constitution, in view of this, honourable national MPs, I ask you to support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u108	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Leo Biruk, please close the door. And then Alexander Ephraim. Is there a Leo Biruk?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we've heard all the bills that have been tabled with changes and additions, and I'm making one point for myself personally, with this law, it's impossible to run elections on democratic grounds or fair elections. And it's not possible, not because someone's been working on the law a little bit on its own, if the law is being scrutinized, you can see how a brick was put into a brick to pass on all the rights to administrative resources in this election. And look, if, I've already said, you have to come to the C.V.C.C.C. with a certified notary, you can imagine what notaries are going to be looking for in some cities or in some areas, and who's going to do that. But I would also like to pay attention to deeper violations or violations that we have no right to allow. Article 16 of the law that we are considering today tells us that the general composition of the district, district, city, except for the cities of Crimea and Kiev, the councils set up a numbered composition of the district councils. But this is a direct violation of the European Charter on Self-Government. We signed it, we have to do it. Doesn't our left hand know what law does? I think he knows. Only if you're breaking it, you're breaking it. For what? Perhaps we too know why. I'm more convinced that this law grants rights to administrations and courts, and we know what courts today, what their decisions, where they want them, will be unconfirmed by the outcome of the election and no measure will be possible, whether it's the head of the city or the head of the village council, will not be able to do so. So, you know, hoping in the Lord God probably doesn't suit us in this room, we need ourselves. I don't think that elections will be democratic, even if you vote for the changes that I've made and that, thank God, and I'm happy to say, have entered Mr. Ephraim's bill. They will be voted on, but they will not actually change anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u111	Yes, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, and then a representative of the committee, if you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u112	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, I am a people's MP and as a person, of course, agreeing with the proposal made here by Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki that we must work together on the election code. It is desirable that this document be adopted at that time, not when we are going to the elections, but in an inter-election period, so that the political situation does not put pressure on politicians, does not pressure the deputies present in the Chamber. And it seems to me that this is the main task that we must set ourselves, especially since it is a requirement and a monitoring committee of the OSCE. As for our debate on the adoption of this bill, you know, we have two options. The first option is to leave everything as it is. And the second option is to improve. And it seems to me that, if you choose between these options, it is better to adopt a second option that improves even more the bill that there is and you know that there is no limit to perfection. We can continue to work on this document in order to further improve it. In view of the statements that have been made here from the rostrum, as well as in the course of the discussion in the towers, there is a proposal that the bill should be supplemented by the following. Article 22 of the first part to add: “At the same time, the relevant local organizations, united into one parliamentary faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, may present the current convening of political parties or local organizations, which, of the political party that has formed its parliamentary faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, may submit no more than 3 nominations to the respective territorial election commission. Then we are moving away from the dangers that colleagues here have said that the Central Electoral Commission will form itself. We will come to the conclusion that the blocs or factions of the party that are here will themselves propose three candidatures that will have to be taken into account by the electoral commission. And he won't choose a name by himself. And within the bloc, you will define the people you are delegating. Next change. The number of persons per person represented in Parliament is 3 per person. Next sentence. The process of forming an electoral commission in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is being carried out in general, as throughout Ukraine. And throughout the text, which deals with the authorities of local self-government, add the words “Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. It's a technical readjustment of a friend. And the first is like all over Ukraine. And the third. It complements paragraph 5 with a pair, the Final and the Transitional Regulations, to complement the words “Kyivsk city”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u113	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u114	At the same time, I would like to say that the proposals made by Biruk Lviv Vasilovich's colleague are mostly included in this document. And that also probably tells us that we're moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u115	Thank you. From the committee? A representative of the committee will be speaking? Please, Alexander Rostislavovich Kasinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to adopt the bill proposed by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We've completed our consideration of the issue, it's extremely sensitive and irritating, especially in the part about the right of political parties to participate in elections. Since there are many debates over the fact that the party should participate in elections that failed to comply with the Political Parties Act and after registration for six months did not form structures, and since this issue went beyond the country, I could propose a compromise solution. It is not for those who are requiring the role of the mission, but for those political parties that are registered less than a year before the election to have the right to participate in the elections. And those parties that have been registered for over a year, they have to prove that they are implementing the law. The law on political parties has not been rescinded. And that would be the right thing to do. But at the same time, dear colleagues, we need to make a decision in order to make a certain definition of the electoral process. I will put to the vote bills in order of their registration and in order of their reports. The first one will be the voting project. [[Registration number 7040]] [[author Lev Biruk]] This is a draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the granting to cities of regional importance of the right to nominate candidates and candidates for the post of city heads]] Registration number, again, 7040. I'm betting on a vote on accepting it as a basis and generally as a law. You make up your mind, please. Honorable colleagues, either we make decisions, or we make no decisions, none. May I have your attention, please? [[12:45:42]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. for acceptance as a foundation and as a whole. [[Registration number 7043]] [[author: Arsenij Yatzenuk]] Please vote. Then don't vote. [[12:46:21]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, Registration No. 7043-1. The author is Alexander Efraemov. And with the additions that Alexander Efraemov just made. And plus the proposal made by Ruslan Knazevitch, please listen, to leave in the law a position that has the right to be elected persons who at the time of the election have reached 18, on the day of the vote, sorry, on the day of the vote have reached 18 years. And there's another offer. Remove the requirement to give a photo 9 by 12, leaving the photograph 4 by 6, because where will the rural MP take the photograph 9 by 12? And with these additions, and the additions that Alexander Ephraim made, I'm voting for the adoption of the project as a basis and as a whole as a law. Registration number 7043-1. Please vote. [[12:47:56]] For 264 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! First of all, we, please, calm down, dear colleagues! First of all, dear colleagues, please, calm down. First of all, the election campaign is already actually starting. We need to make a decision. Secondly, we called an emergency session to do this. Everyone had the opportunity to express their position. I think you all understand very well that either we had to make a decision or we didn't. The Supreme Council of Ukraine made a decision. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. [[on the Savings Recovery Mechanism]] [[Registration number 6491]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Finance Andrey Mikolayovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Dear colleagues, your request and your consent, I ask that we consider the issues that have been left uninterrupted and then closed our session. No objections? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings is proposed for your consideration. Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Citizens’ Savings There is a general commitment by the State to repay the valueless savings to Ukraine’s citizens amounting to 131 billion dollars. However, the real number of investors who are entitled to such compensation, including state - owned securities, insurers, and insured persons, and the actual amount of liabilities is still undetermined. Thus, it is necessary to amend the legislative framework and modernize the process by inventorying the State’s obligations under citizens’ accounts and creating an electronic accounting system. To this end, and to achieve a fair allocation of funds to citizens, to prevent financial abuse, to minimize public spending, two chapters to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts on Ukraine's 2008 State Budget and to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts from 28 December 2007, number 107-6 has made a number of changes to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Savings to Ukrainian Citizens. During the changes made to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantee for the Restoration of Citizens during 2008, the creation of an information and analysis system “Investment Register for Citizens’ Savings”, which included data on the loss of savings of nearly 12 million Ukrainian citizens, of which 6 million 392 000 793 were compensated. However, these changes took effect only until December 2008. Thus, the adoption of the proposed bill is an urgent need, the solution of which will allow the process of making payments to be bought out and at the same time ensure the efficient and equitable use of budgetary resources. Thus, the bill provides for the creation of an information and analysis system, the Register of Citizens Savings Depositors and the Register of Insurance and Insured Persons. The bill also proposes to make compensation payments in cash or cash-free form through the institutions of the Bank of Ukraine and the former Ukradzhstrakh. After entering the information and analysis register, the register of depositors for the savings of citizens and the register of insurers and insured persons, the data on them required for the identification of the investor when the account is opened, after the last transfer, will be made through the Savings Institution. Thus, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Citizens' Savings will address the issue of optimizing and increasing the efficiency of the use of public budget funds and will contribute to improving the mechanisms to pay off the State's obligations under lost liabilities. Compensation payments within one fiscal year will be made to citizens with equivalent amounts within the remaining indexed contribution of the owner, except in cases of payment to the heirs of the deceased investors for the organization of the funeral in accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. compensation will take place within the limits of the funds set out in the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the year in question for the implementation of the measures envisaged by the State Budget Programme on Measures for Gradual Compensation to Citizens for Loss of Savings. Thank you for your attention and would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u119	Thank you, Andrey Mikolayovich. Please sign up for the question. Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u120	Andrew Pavlovski, “Fatherland” Party, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Questions. The name is on the savings return mechanism. At the same time, after reading the law, I did not see any new specific mechanism or sources of recovery. I mean, the law itself. The essence of the law doesn't match the name. It turns out it's a register. On the other hand, this register is already there, and we know that 12 million citizens registered in this register as early as 2008. Take this register and work with it. On the other hand, there are adjustments that reduce the number of people who can claim to pay these savings. This should have been called the law “to reduce the number of citizens who have the right to claim compensation and recover their savings”. That would be fair, although there is no need for such political moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. First, with regard to the sources from which compensation is paid or lost savings to Ukrainian citizens. The source set out in this draft law and the source for today is the State budget of Ukraine and the funds provided for in the State budget of Ukraine for each year, out of the scope of the State budget. It's different. It's about the registers. It is this law that it is, and it foresees the creation of a subordination and the creation of a pay-off mechanism. As already stated, there is no clear, clear understanding and clear accounting for the investors of the former Savings and Ukdrärgessocstraj, who are to be paid for their savings. To date, the 2008 investor register has not been completed and we are predicting the completion of this register. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u123	As far as Ukrainian citizens are concerned, insurance companies have not created such a register at all, and this is precisely for*** a proposal to form a mechanism and just compensation for savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u124	Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u125	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, I wanted to ask you a question: you can literally be so clear to our radio audiences, to those who are actually investors, to explain what this law is giving. Because either it's just cosmetic adjustments, or he's actually allowing you to speed up the payment of the savings. And I'm also wondering, how will the investments in the Savings of Citizens be indexed? At what course will these contributions be paid in bracelets after the adoption of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u126	Thank you for asking. Then I'll probably answer yours first, your second question, because there are two in this question. First of all, in terms of indexation, today we have a fixed amount of undervalued savings left over is 121 billion 313 million and 300,000 dollars. These funds, which were, were in the Soviet Reserve, were in Soviet rubles, and in their time they were indexed on. From the index 1.02, as you probably know. As for the indexation, and you probably meant the inflation index, which was also discussed during the preparation of this law and the number and the committees, there was an appropriate decision by the Constitutional Court and a proposal that included the possibility of including indexation on the inflation index, it was not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u127	Yes, finish up, but keep in mind, you have one minute to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u128	was rejected by the Constitutional Court. The European Court of Human Rights’s decisions regarding citizens’ indexation are also appropriate. Moreover, if we include an inflation index, the total government debt will amount to 340 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u129	Yes, I realized that Matthew passed on the word of Arjevitina. Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u130	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Dear national deputies, well, it's not as simple as we've been told. First of all, the indexation in the law is being taken out at all, and our Ukrainians will not be getting indexed amounts, which is very cynical in terms of Ukrainians -- that's the first. The other one. As for the register, I'll ask you a question. Today there is a register in our country. The last Cabinet of Ministers has allocated and paid 60 million dollars for the creation of this register, this register in Savings is, it is property of Savings, the National Bank of Ukraine has done a test of this register and admitted it. As a 25-year-old banker, I know what debit and credit on deposits in the banking system is. So the register is, the question is, whose property is this register? Today this register is owned by the Reserve, and so getting information from the Cabinet of Ministers on customer investments is not allowed. So I have a question: what is the status of this register that you are predicting, and what additional amounts will be allocated, except for the 60 billion that have already been paid for creating this register? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u131	Thank you. I've already said that really in 2008, a register of citizens' savings investors was started. But its final formation was extremely large, but its final formation was not complete. Secondly, secondly, we also don't have a complete register, a register of insurers and insured persons. No one was involved in this subject at all, and it is the law that provides for the creation and formation of a system of registers that will respond to the sums that the state has to pay to the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u132	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u133	Dear Andrei Nikolayevich, it is a matter of honour to the Government that, in the face of the worst economic crisis, the Government is finding opportunities to address the most painful, most painful problem, the issue of the return of valuable cash deposits. And it is right for the President to say that whatever reforms we are making, but we must see and remember and take care of the social needs of the people and do not reform at the expense of the people. So this is exactly what you're proposing, and it's designed to solve this problem. And people have to believe in power. One who, even in difficult times, finds a resource to address this problem. I have a question. I think that, as the main source in the years to come, the return of these cash deposits under the mechanism will probably be the budget. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u134	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u136	It's going to be a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u137	Jaroslav Jojik, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u138	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Respectful reporting, apparently the issue under consideration, is one of the most resonant issues that millions of citizens are concerned about. But after familiarizing yourself with the bill you have proposed, the Ukrainian People's Party claims that you don't want to return savings, that you just want to talk about the return of savings. Because today, in a situation of acute deficit, 150 billion dollars, when nothing is better than increasing tax pressure and borrowing money from the IMF, you don't offer any real source of return. The Ukrainian National Party has for many years called the real return, the source of the return. This is the recognition of this debt by the State Debt of the Russian Federation to Ukraine. Because it was Russia that took all the savings from the Ukrainian investors and transferred them to Russia. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u139	Allow me to complete the question. Do you have everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u140	No, no. So don't you think that today, in this situation, a new coalition and a new government with new power have to ask about the recognition of Russia's debt for savings, Russia before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u142	Thank you for asking. What I'd like to say. This bill, it creates a foundation, first of all, for a clear idea of what exactly is the amount of debt undercutting savings, because now clearly we can't answer. And that's the main foundation. And then you can decide about the sources, how to determine the budget, how to pay the savings. This law creates a mechanism, a foundation, and this is actually a tool that will allow the state to pay justly its debt to the extent that it is able to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u143	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Head of the Committee on Social Policy, Vasil Georgievich Hara. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a technical bill that will enable us to deal with the issue of return in real terms. This question has a history. I would like the distinguished colleagues not to politicize it. In the second section of amending certain laws, the Government of Timoshenko, I remind you, has introduced this rule into the 2008 Budget Act. But it worked until 1 January 2009. The task of the Government of Timoshenko has not been fully achieved. The same Government of Timoshenko, the Cabinet of Ministers, passed a bill on 12 June 2009. Unfortunately, however, he did not complete the procedure. The Committee considered it, supported it. But he didn't complete the procedure. And in connection with the replacement of the Cabinet of Ministers, he was withdrawn. And the current new Government is introducing it to complete what the Government of Timoshenko has begun to do. Therefore, politics is not appropriate here. And let's talk about the subject. So, what's the deal? It is proposed that the establishment of an information and analysis system of the investor register, which has been initiated by the Government of Timoshenko, be brought to mind. Get your mind back. I want to tell you that this bill is absolutely necessary. The law, which had been enacted a long time ago, had recorded a sum of 131 billion 960 million bracelets. It's like debt to investors. But we don't have a real picture, but how many investors, how many accounts, and what amounts? That's why we need to do a full inventory. And here's the chaotic spending, by the thousands, by the 500, by the 50 bracelets that the first one gets, you have to put an end to it and take the law more seriously. Next. The Government of Timoshenko was the only one to fail because not only the population's contributions, but the population was insured, had purchased government securities. And this part, she stayed away. The new Government therefore proposes to establish the same information and analysis system for insurance and insured persons who have insured their lives in public insurance companies that have purchased securities. And there's these. And they give us a complete picture of what to do. And what we need to do is understand that if we know a clear picture, we need to develop an economy, make money, and invest as much money in the government budget as possible. Because what we did before, even 1 billion in the budget, what does that mean? And we have 131 billion -- 130 years old, we need that much time to hand these out. We need to make money. Second. Provision is made for the streamlining of the payment system, within one budget year, to pay compensation to citizens in only one account. This is about justice. We had young people who had three or five books, and a veteran had only one book. Someone got even 100 bracelets for five books, 500 bracelets for one and 100 bracelets for the other. It is therefore a task that only one account should ensure that all are paid evenly. And the second rule, which is not only cash, but also cash. As chairman of the committee, I can tell you that we have received tens of thousands of letters from insured persons who ask: “Give an opportunity to be counted for surgery, for a granddaughter” and more. It is therefore proposed not only in cash today but also in cash. I want to tell you that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office supports this bill. The National Bank, the Open Shareholder Society of State Sberbank Ukraine, the Oranta Stock Insurance Company, has no comments on the project. The Policy and Labour Committee therefore decided on 7 June 2010 to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill. This will be a good foundation for a normal, real public work to finally make contributions to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u145	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, is there a question? Yes. Please sign up for a question to the head of the committee. Anatoly Matvienko. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u146	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Vasil Grigorovitch, well, first of all I'm going to ask you a question, but I'd like to ask the voters not to listen to the prodigal propaganda today, and no one's going to pay you a penny. There's some kind of machination going on today that I'd like to hear from you, Vasil Grigorovitch, the answer. You're in charge of the Committee, the Committee on Budgets, which has a control function. Here's a question for me. $80 million has already been allocated to the Reserve Register. The savings account has a register. A question arises. Why don't you control it, and why are we again 100 million, or do we want to spend more on re-registration? Why do we want to take this register back to Savings and transfer it to a database that doesn't know what manipulations and who? I understand there's no insurance register. Well, then let's just say it. Let's redo, if necessary, the savings register, these are the other expenses, and let's create a register of those.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u147	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u148	Anatoly Sergeyevich, regarding the controls, I want to say that our committee's function is financial control, it's not there, we can't control it. We have the Budget Committee, it's theirs, and the Bank Committee, it's their parish. Second. This is not about the beginning of work from scratch, and this is where the work is expected to continue. Anatoly Sergeyevich, please read where there is no such thing, please read the bill. Read where there's no such thing. That's not what you're saying. Read it, please. I'm asking you, let's actually speak the law, not emotion. You can do anything to each other. We spent our money. The Government of Timoshenko has already spent money, perhaps in part, maybe the whole amount, I don't know. No one was reporting to us. Should we finish this job or bury the money Timoshenko spent on this case? The register must be completed and another registry established to take into account those who have lost money on insurance and on the purchase of government securities. What's wrong with that? Because we are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u149	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I'm in charge of a subcommittee on the subject of savings. I mean, well, my memory times 15-20 we listened to this question on the committee, and every time we came to the Ministry of Finance from the bank, we said, well, there's no register, we don't know how much we paid; some say 80 billion, some say 150, three hundred. I have another question, Vasl Grigorovich. It says here they're going to pay on an even scale. This means that regardless of how much money a person has per book is equal to a fraction. [[whether it's 10,000 or 20 or how much]] What is this going to be equal to? And a fool. If a person has 2-3 books, why should we pay for just one book? What will be the amount of the book that is less than or greater than the amount? And the third moment, Vasil Grigorovich, you know, you paid people over 80 years of age, that was a discriminatory measure, a west. Is this arrangement reversed, that is, everyone with books will be paid for? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u151	Dear Alexander Nikolayevich, here are just the same parts. This question relates to the last question you are talking about. Unfortunately, I personally and our committee feel that this is not fair, but perhaps fair. The Constitutional Court has decided that no category can be assigned. We asked the question, "Let's give it first to veterans who have not so much to live on." They say that before the Constitution everyone is equal, everyone must receive the same. On this basis, he sends that we cannot treat the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Government of Azarov in any other way, and we suggest that we have a certain amount of budget in a separate line, divided by the number of citizens who have their savings and determined what amount we can give. And regardless of whether a citizen is 80 or 54 years old, they will all receive the same amount. But even to do so, we need to know how many citizens have savings. And what's the amount. Because it could be $131 million. A billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u152	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u153	Dear reporter, the zero price for all your arguments is only one thing -- you canceled the indexation for the Ukrainians. Now the Cabinet of Ministers will be setting up funeral payments. Please read the committee that has to do with social protection, please tell me when the Communist Guard of the 1990s gave everything to the Soviet Union, when the next government at a cynical rate, one, almost, to one exchange, and in terms of the dollar -- this has reduced the sum tenfold, the following governments have destroyed the purchasing power, or reduced between 10 and 50 percent. Please tell me, what kind of social protection might there be? So you just canceled the index. So tell me, what is your committee's role in this function? To pass on a register to the Cabinet of Ministers to know where 24 million Ukrainians live, who are they? It's a secret that the Reserve should own, it's his property, it's a register created, it's already spent 60 million last year, and I stress that the National Bank protested it, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u154	You know, it's very hard to answer the questions you asked. It is not at all relevant to the subject of the issue under discussion. You know what I'm trying to tell you, we have everything. Why don't we give people money if you have it all? There are registers, there are all solutions, there have been remarkable indices. You know the difference between people who are pragmatic and those who are involved in politics. We want at least one step closer to fulfilling the State's obligations to citizens for their lost contributions, and you continue to do more than do anything for political reasons, that's all the difference. We want to solve the problem, let's legislate, let's move. If we want to look beautiful on TV, well, it's no longer a practical task, it's political.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u155	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. We're already in the process of dealing with this issue, we're in the process. I want to say again, Anatoly Sergiyovich, we're, we're looking at questions. What could be the procedure? Next procedure: please log in, please log in. Just a minute. Please sign up for the factions 15 minutes and 15 minutes for the national performances. Well, one minute now, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please register with the factions. Yes, there was a faction record. Now the people's deputies. Well, now, one minute, well, now, one minute, the record goes on. People's deputies please log in. Yes, please show me the names of the national MPs. Matvienka's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u156	The Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council" block "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you as the presiding officer who has to control ethics and order of consideration. Personally, I asked Mr. Vasil Georgievovich, Mr. Arzvitin, I asked Vasil Georgievich Haru not to pass on the characteristics of the person who asked, but to answer in essence. And if there's no answer in fact, tell me, I don't know the answer to that question. To give characteristics to one MP to another, I don't think it's ethical. And I wanted to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to monitor this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u157	Thank you. Note accepted. It's fair. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the factions. Xenia Leapina. And it's going to be from the faction of Stanislav Arzevetin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u158	Stanislav Arzvitin’s group “For Ukraine! ” Your Honor, I'm sorry for my tone, but when the Ukrainians are so deceived, I just can't say it without emotion. I'm going to highlight a few for our audiences, and I'm going to highlight the innovations that are being introduced, and they're going to figure out what the role of this bill is. First of all, the bill removes the compensations that were granted for the certification privatization of state property. If someone did not make use of it, they were entitled to bring money back to Kabmin today, and they were reinstated in Savings. It's off today. Next, the indexation, we talked about today. I think it's the most cynical norm when, at this level of inflation, today's authorities have dared to remove from the law the subject of inflation in these circumstances. I think the ratings after that should fall five times in the Party of Regions for having accepted that standard today, and I'm already going to give you a hard time about it. Think, Your Honor, this is a key norm for this bill. Next. Today they're talking about indexation, respectable, I'm sorry about the register. There's a register in our country. Almost 100 million dollars was spent by the State. Today, the register is in the savings walls, confirmed by the National Bank. You want to pay, put it in the budget and pay. And then maybe there's one or two people there that you can get to this register. I don't believe that today, as an intern banker, the bank doesn't have that kind of information. By the way, you didn't count 20 copies in Russia. Please tell me, isn't that an account? Do we not know these amounts? So, reverends, with a register, it's a topic that someone needs to have how many electors updated today, send them letters, work with them, but don't pay them savings. Next. Today, it is said that only one bill is paid. Which one? How much? By what principle? Who will determine what the account should be? Next. Money - form compensation is in place today. Now, aside from the money form, what else will there be? What other debts, what other certificates are they going to be manipulating at the state level? I think that's the wrong norm. It was normal when it was age-dependent. Among other things, today we talked about it and about veterans. Tell me, please, why do you speak so beautifully and delete this norm if you fear for the elderly and now for the funeral the law will determine the Cabinet of Ministers, how much to pay for the funeral? Please tell me, is this the right thing to do? I suggest that the state in this way only loses authority in the person of our savings customers. And by the way, we have to turn to economic circulation because of the trust of the 250 billion that are in the hands of the population today. This is the way back. The previous Cabinet of Ministers, which passed a similar bill, ventured to recall him. I also invite you, think of 24 million Ukrainians, call this cynical bill back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u159	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Kilinkarov will be next. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, over the years, the lack of effectiveness of our legislative work in the field of social policy has been evident. Regrettably, the individual directions become hostages regularly and are now in this sessional hall of primitive politics, the artificial oppression of political passions in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. The social problems and pains that we should treat with you are gradually becoming a chronic serious disease. One of them is the issue of the development of public policy in the area of return and compensation for lost savings. I would like to remind you that since the basic Law on State Savings Guarantees has been in operation since 1997, a number of parliamentary and committee hearings have been held here. The decision is promised, the decision is not implemented. So we waited a long time for numerous governments to make legislative proposals. The project number 6491 from Kabmin should be welcomed at least because we have finally seen the growths of the system’s approach to solving the issue. The creation of an information-analyst system allows us to do what's called inventory. I'm worried about another question. Here a colleague spoke, called a terrible figure. There are 100 million bracelets that have been set aside to create this register, and they've gone somewhere in the swamp. Ask questions about the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, lead it, and explain where the money went. Only in that case will we be able to finally develop and, after consultation with the public, with the political forces, a real compensation mechanism. Why were we introducing drafts here? We wanted to force the law to go to work, it didn't work. It is, but all of these 50 bracelets or 1000 bracelets are not the solution to the problem. That is what Kazakhstan did. After creating the register, he transferred the debt to securities at 15,000 Soviet carbons to $100. Lithuania, which paid a regulated amount of between 850 and 1,400 euros per person. Belarus, which brought very little meaning to these figures, and who took this number of copies, who refused. Russia went the other way we go, out of 11 trillion rubles they paid 160 billion. This road is nowhere. So this bill could be voted in favour if it had real mechanisms. Only after we finally wait for the government can it be supported by real savings mechanisms. And now I propose that this bill be adopted or returned to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u161	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! The Company's faction supports the proposal for the second re-reading, to re-send the bill. And we're out of the next one. Well, first of all, this bill doesn't really solve the problem, but, first of all, it does contribute to, once again, the support of those who, under the slogans of bank refinancing, decided to use government money again. And that's the end of it. It's different. In order to resolve the problem and to put an end to the abuse of the Ukrainian people, it is vital that we adopt the law and recognize these savings as a sovereign debt of Ukraine. It's different. So we're going to solve the problem of how much savings are going to be returned to our citizens every year. Because what is happening today, unfortunately, only proves one thing. Returning savings to citizens who have been robbed of certain circles is returned at the expense of their pockets. Because the government budget is being taken back to the same disadvantaged as the government budget is being formed today. I propose, Vladimir Mihajlovich, let's, after all, take a decision and let the Attorney General's Office report on where the 9 billion since the sale of "Criminals" took place? And let's put someone in anyway! And let them be responsible for what happened! Nine billion since the sale of Creebristali was directed, according to the Supreme Council's decision, to return savings. Therefore, your honor, today you need to understand clearly that in order to return, there must be a clear responsibility on the part of the State. And we have to make this decision about the government debt of these savings. Second, we have to recognize the sources of the return of these savings. Because if we act the way we do in recent years, we will have to live four hundred years in order for a person to get those savings back, and he will not get them. And in order to really shape the ideology of the return of savings today, it is necessary to form an ideology such that savings must bring back just the wealthy who have taken away factories and factories, banks and other people who have created all these material values, and who today make only a fraction of our citizens' income. And secondly, in this matter, we need to properly form sources of filling. What can be the source of this fund’s fulfillment? That's the percentage of selling luxury items, that's exchange of currency, that's the moratorium on vodka, tobacco, that's all that's making up today's stable sources of filling up this fund right over here. And the last thing I'd like to say. We still have to do everything today to expand the network of state banks, because that's exactly what private banks are using, and we need a network of state banks to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u164	In order for these state banks to finance the development of the real economy, and the real economy sector will provide additional revenue. I'm sure. That's the kind of approach that will allow us to solve this problem in a stable way that concerns millions of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u166	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Representatives of the pro-dominant coalition convince us, I quote literally one of my colleagues, that “in the face of a crisis, the government finds the opportunity to return money to people”. I'm informing this uninformed colleague. The 2010 budget provides 250 million dollars for the return of deposits. No money has been funded today, and no person in Ukraine has received a deposit this year. So what you're saying is that government returns deposits are not real. Next. The total amount of debt that we, the authorities, owe to the citizens of Ukraine on deposits is 131 billion dollars. If we pay them back at least 250 million a year, that's 520 years of return. What is proposed in this bill? Please note that the government openly admits in the bill a projection of results, this is in the explanatory note to the bill, it is argued that the adoption of the bill will reduce the cost of compensation measures. The government frankly claims that this bill will reduce the cost of compensation. How is the government going to do this? The first is to remove the inflation index index from the current law. From 96 to today, inflation was 530 percent. So when you're 400 years old and you're paying people off, let's figure out 400 years of inflation, and how much you're going to get from investors. One. Next, the government says that payments are possible, the payment of the compensations indicated should only take place when the register is created. When will this register be created? The law in chapter II states that the Cabinet of Ministers is to approve the order of registration and registration by January 1, 2011. So by the new year, they're going to confirm order, then 12 million citizens are going to register for two years, and we're going to force again millions of people who, in the winter, have huge queues in the Stocks to register, we're going to force them to go through this circle of hell again to register. And in total, we're going to have a result that there's not going to be any payouts and deposits for the next 2-3 years at all. Then why is the government introducing this bill, hiding it under the beautiful title "On State Guarantees for Restoration of Citizens' Savings"? And in order to hide, as they say, the truth, and the truth is that people are raised in gas prices, they are raised in retirement age, they are raised in housing and utility tariffs, and they are fooled by talking about some kind of ephemeral investment that is not actually going to happen this year or next year. That's the truth to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u167	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 15 minutes for the national deputies. Please fix your time. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Soloshenka, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, you know, when they raise the issue of return, you think, uh, there's another election coming up. And that was always the case when something was promised before the next election. This was the promise of some political forces, whose representatives were now speaking and promised to return all savings in two years. But today, the Party of Regions and Government has passed a completely understandable technical law. It's about making a voter register. We've heard 10 times in our committee about how much debt we owe today, how many people we haven't solved. But even though I'm part of this ruling political force, I'm going to criticize the government today, and I'm going to say that I'm not going to submit a bill. If our government is submitting a bill and proposing a technical side, and this needs to be done, I emphasize, that's not enough, we need to show the return mechanisms, they're not there. I cannot agree with the term “in the same generation. ” Rabbit, shut up, please! What are you jumping for? There's no spit on you! Yes, our government, I'm criticizing it today, yes. In equilibrium, let's say, magnitudes. What are the equivalencies? What are the costs, how many years will it take? Because really, if 250 million a year, it takes a lot of years. There's no mechanism, there's no system. That's why I think that this law needs to be put back into re-reading, and what is now being proposed -- the register -- is just a small part of a serious law. I still think that as a political power, we're going to find ways to get our savings back, we're going to find ways to get our savings back, but we have to do this clearly and transparently so that people know that we're not doing populism, that we're not doing this in elections, that it takes a term of 3, 5 or more years. More than that, what's the return now? Let's move on. Why, say, and say one book. If a man had two books, that's him. He didn't steal that money, so he's got two books, he's got two books to return. Define process. For example, we've offered to give our time back to people first, and these are older people, who have 5,000 or 10,000 on books. That's 20,000, maybe 50 percent. For example, if you are 50 years old, you may be able to compensate for goods and services. Again, what is compensation for goods and services? And who would count, say, a hospital if a paid treatment, who would count U.S.U.S. if they were paid for their education? It's ephemeral. And last but not least, why did we not have this law before then and have no understanding? Here a colleague spoke and said: “It’s all the fault of the USSR. If you continue to throw at the USSR and Moscow and this mechanism alone, there will be no explanation, no money, no money, no money, no internal reserves. It's very good that the state has taken responsibility for these savings, and we have to do everything we can to get this money back to the people in time. So once again, once again, the re-reading of the first reading and the more serious approach, the complex approach to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Bondarenko, instead of Koval, will be next. At the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Dear national MPs, honourable voters, here's today's analysis of this law that was. And I'm going to give you a little bit of an analysis and I'm going to illustrate it to you. But I've shown green that it's being removed. What's being deleted? Unused public property privatization certificates of compensation may be returned to institutions. Furthermore, the compensatory certificates in free association with privatization are not subject to indexation. Everything about certificates is deleted. This is in the first article. The third article excludes the words: “further compensation index of citizens’ savings is carried out when insurance contributions are made, securities are repaid according to the inflation index”, this is excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, are you all dressed up? I'm talking to the government. Now, what do the unions think? They address the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and write. The joint representative body of all Ukrainian trade unions and trade unions for collective bargaining and social dialogue, and they write that the government takes over and violates Article 92 of the Constitution to define exclusively the laws of guarantees, human rights and freedoms, the 17th and 18th -- the Law on State Social Standards for the Establishment of State Social Guarantees, exclusively with laws, it's all written by trade unions, not said Yuri Carmazin. Well, honourable national deputies, and I'd like us to be held accountable. Those who today voted the previous bill as a whole, contrary to the Law of the Rules, contrary to the Constitution, spitting on what is the Constitution and the law should think that such laws too will have to be held accountable. I remind you that he's hiding under this law. You know that the national company, the insurance company Oranta, is no longer national, don't you know? So I remind you that as early as 2007, the holdmeine Foundation sold 25 plus 1, and the control is done by Delta Bank and by some Nikolai Laguna, it has 45 percent. Your Honor, don't you know that?Oh, my God! So it turns out that this law, and this is an even more pressing issue, had to be brought up just to raise the insurance question in order to bring these questions up. And what you don't know is that 60 million dollars have been allocated Savings has been used and Nazbank has confirmed that the investor register is correct. This law should therefore be thrown into the trash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u171	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction. Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u172	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Dear friends, all of you remember the good folk wisdom: “How much honey does not speak, and how sweet it does not become in the mouth.” So today it's about whether you're returning deposits or developing another ephemeral program that's never going to happen. And I'm sure today this document that we're looking at today is such a turn of speech around money. The only one who took real steps was Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko, who had already started a savings programme for the citizens in January 1 year of her office, and had paid 6.5 billion for her activities. There you go talking 131, and in a short period of 6.5 she's back. This year, the new government will not return a single penny. Then let's talk money, and no one will feel it. So this is a Pharisee. This is a citizen’s deception. This document is only for the release of a pair. I'd like to point out that if this document were even to be developed as a future program, it would have to start with what we set our own boundary terms for the return of all savings. What categories of citizens do we define as basic? It's obviously supposed to be older people, because every year we lose hundreds of thousands of investors that go into another category, so to speak, into other worlds, and so without getting and waiting for these investments. Who should be given first? If a person presents documents of what he needs to do and has a contribution, and the operation is urgent and will cost him his life if he does not do so, he should immediately put it in the first category. If you want to teach your grandchildren or build a new home, you have to go to the first category. I mean, you have to prepare a document that makes it clear when someone gets what they get. This does not answer this document. I also remember the way some of our colleagues were cooking bordello from this rostrum, telling us how many cabbages, carrots, and beets were standing at Julius Timoshenko’s house. What's that wrinkle? Go to the market now and boil that bordello. You don't cook 100 grams instead of 3 kilograms or more. You'll see that today the potato is 5 grams of kilograms, today is the season, and it's 10. You'll see where the inflation won't come from, as you say, how you protected the citizens. So when we don't index these deposits, we're going to turn this money into dust, into dust that can be blown off the table with the citizens who had it. So, dear friends, let's not play with people. Today this document is made before the elections to show how worried you are about those voters. There's no concern. Let's look together for a way out for our parents, the grandparents who made that money, who were then stolen by your oligarchs in the form of metallurgical combinations and mines. Let's draw some money out of them and give it to those who built these mines and combinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u173	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, the Communist faction, please, your right to speak. Zablocký will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u174	Thank you. The Communist faction. Peter Cibenko, head of the Board of Veterans of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you and I are looking at one of the most acute social problems today, a painful problem. I say this not only as a national deputy, but not only as the first deputy head of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, veterans of disabled persons, but also as the head of the organization of Ukrainian veterans, the largest veteran organization in Ukraine. Not a day goes by, not a week goes by that the Veterans Council, the organization of Ukrainian veterans, will receive a letter requesting a solution. Dear colleagues, the problem really exists, and it needs to be solved. Realizing that there was a problem, the faction of the Ukrainian Company practically introduced a draft law at each session to address the problem. It really was. How did these bills differ from those passed in the form of laws? And they were different because they contained three basic things. First. The need to recognise those savings to Ukraine’s sovereign debt. This must be done, for some of our colleagues with a wolf in their head today say that the savings were loaded into some wagons and taken away somewhere. So in order for them to not repeat such nonsense from this rostrum, it is necessary to make that decision. The second element, which must be present in this law, is the creation of an appropriate fund. Because we tried to adopt this law by placing in Ukraine’s State budget a mower to solve this problem, to act on a well - known Bible principle, where five breads and five fish feed everyone. Sadly, that is not the case. If we put gaps in the state budget, it is not possible to solve this problem. We therefore suggested that a suitable fund be set up, where to raise funds, and at the expense of these funds to solve the problem. And the third part of this bill was that we suggested using not only cash forms, but also cashless forms to solve the most acute social problems. I am absolutely convinced that these problems must be solved. And they have to be part of this law. When the law is referred to as State guarantees for the recovery of Ukrainian citizens’ savings, if the state does not recognise these funds as sovereign debt, which can be guarantees from the State regarding the repayment of that debt. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the problem is indeed, the problem needs to be solved, but it needs to be solved in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And that's why I support the proposal that today came out of this rostrum that the bill that is being submitted today really needs to be put back into the first reading, working very seriously to really solve this problem. It's not going any further.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u175	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u176	Because once again, I would like to stress that the most painful, most acute problem is especially for the Ukrainian veterans, who, by their many years of work, deserved to be treated differently than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u177	Thank you. Zablotsky National Deputy, Party of Regions. Michael Chechtchev's giving the right to speak. The next one will be Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u178	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, we are considering a social resonant bill today. And we must pay tribute to the Government. I've talked about this before. That, at the time of the worst economic crisis, the Government was also trying to put on the agenda a solution to this sinister, sobering issue. Although, on the other hand, the rights of the President and the President are that whatever changes we make, however difficult we may be to get out of the crisis, we must see the social needs of the people. I think the right approach between the authorities and the President and the Government is that social harvests can be collected from an economically growing field. The economy is growing, and resources are emerging to address social problems. Social problems, social problems, are derived from economic growth. In the country, they understand: born in the garden, you can put something on the table. The fact that the Government has now passed this law, which is designed to create a clear register, specifies that, how many, even someone has one account, someone has two accounts, different savings books, different people, a separate category of people have left the country, someone has come back, someone has gone out of life, the right to inherit and so on. That's why inventory is needed here, that's absolutely right. But on the other hand, people probably expect us to do this, a systemic solution. That's the beard question. It stretches for more than 10 years. For the first time, it was adopted by Parliament somewhere in the mid-1990s, the law. It may be necessary to make sure that there is clarity and certainty. Clear mechanisms are detailed so that we don't break copies here every year, but how to give, by which, who, how much and how they used. This bill is precisely in the fight for the vote of voters in any election, and in the long-term, systematic, integrated, detailed, detailed mechanism has been developed and it is clear to all categories of people that the State pays for its bills and pays regardless of which power, which power the President or who is in Parliament, which majority. That must be understood, power must change and power must always pay according to the promissory notes. That is when the people will respect their country and their authority, and the authority of the people will be based on it, regardless of the party signs. Therefore, when such a proposal has been made by both the opposition and the coalition representatives, there is probably a point for us to go back together and not half of it, but seriously, systematically to resolve it. I therefore support the proposal and the right, and the left-hand side of the room, to return the law to re-read it, and then we must establish a group and together with the Government, a system bill to consider and adopt, which will be understood by the people, once and for all, who will put an end to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u179	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u180	Dear fellow countrymen, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to point out that this law, as we are told, has no technical character, is a principled law, because it primarily concerns the interests of millions of our citizens. And thanking the government, as the previous report puts it, we will be after the government has done something concrete and will finally start paying those compensations, even if they were paid by the previous government, Timoshenko in 2008. Now and now we have a situation that neither in this budget project, this year, nor in the next one, is there actually any provision for such payments. And secondly, the law does not match the essence of the law itself, because there is no proposal for a specific mechanism or sources of return. Instead, it is suggested that the inflation rate of our citizens' lost savings be abolished. And I also want to draw your attention, to this variation in indices -- a direct violation of the Constitution, which does not allow for the deterioration of social security, the social status of our citizens. This will result in significant material losses for our citizens because of the decline in purchasing power of the compensation payments received. An example was already cited. From 96 to that day, inflation accounted for 530 percent. What does that mean? This means that citizens’ savings have been undervalued five times over the years. So we're asked by the government to cancel the indexation, wait a few more years, and the cost of these savings is going to be zero. That's when it's going to be zero, then the new government of Azar will start paying. I don't think we can do that in any way, and this rule has to be rejected, removed from this bill, because it's a direct violation of the Constitution. The same thing, the government suggests that the sum of compensation for savings in the funeral of citizens in the event of the death of the investor is determined by the government itself. It is also a direct violation of the Law on State Standards and Guarantees, which states that these things should be determined only by law. And this is a national guarantee. And lastly, I want to say that this law was prepared by our reformer Tihypco in charge of the economic bloc. Do we need such reformers and reforms? And last but not least, the letter from the first deputy director of the joint representative body of the All-U.S. trade unions noted that this law in breach of the general agreement disagreed with Kabmin with the parties to the social dialogue, did not go through public discussion, although we talked about it, it affected the interests of millions of citizens, and given this, the trade unions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I see, well, let's vote, then. Dear colleagues, the vast majority of those who have proposed to make a decision to resubmit the bill for re-reading so that it could be thoroughly worked out. That's why I have an offer like that. As expressed by the MPs, all speakers. Let's immediately vote on re-reading. Don't play with this bill. Committee head, microphone. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please. I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's not look for political turmoil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We accept such a proposal and agree to such a decision by the Supreme Council. Only one proposal is for a re-reading of the legislative initiative, the Cabinet of Ministers. This is the wording of the request and the decision to re-read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Let's vote for a referral to the Cabinet of Ministers so that the Cabinet of Ministers can work out and draft a bill that meets the expectations of people and the needs of society and gets support in the session room. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:54:40]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. The replica. John the Rabbit. The name was mentioned when John the Rabbit spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u184	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. At first, all the coalition MPs as the solos flooded, praising the bill passed by the government, and then the coalition simply banally abandoned the government, saying it would not vote in favour of the bill. As you can see, I sent him back to the government. So who's got a wolf in their head? That's what I'm giving to that MP who didn't like the offer of representatives of the Ukrainian People's Party to do the undervalued savings. Why don't you go to Russia and let her admit she's undervalued in her debt to the Ukrainians? Why did the coalition do so? But because the opposition today just didn't let them fight on this bill. The opposition has shown that this bill makes the situation worse by paying off lost savings, because people take even the coins they have left behind, canceling, for example, the indexation. So, Your Honor, let's be honest in this room, you won't get away with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u185	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, this is what I'm listening to, and you know, I can't understand what you're trying to do? On the one hand, we have listened very carefully to your statement, and with you I believe that we have made a constructive decision that the executive authorities should work out a document that our State needs. That's what you asked, and we insisted. When the question was put to the vote, we voted and you did not. So for you, what's the big deal? Is the main result for you, or is it your main position as a result of this work? As for your activities, you had five years of absolute power, which not only did you not solve the issues, but you have brought our State to such a state that it takes time and time today to restore the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u187	They exchanged lines. Now let's have one more question. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer that we, one minute, will consider this matter for about an hour. No objection? Given this, if you'd agreed to this proposal, the information from the two ministries is 10 minutes plus 5 minutes for the question-answer, and within half an hour you'll have a discussion. Spit it out from the factions and speak to the MPs, so we'd be done with the matter within the hour. Is there no objection? None. Then thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to speak with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich. It will be followed by Georgi Mikhailovich Semchuk – First Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities, then 15 minutes from the factions and. and then from the deputies and, when we make the decision, the authors of the draft decision three minutes to justify their vision of the decision to be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After the performances. After the report. Let us make sure that the draft decree is discussed. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u188	Then I invite Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, please. If it's less than 10 minutes, it'll be fine too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u189	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the government has made and is scheduled to undertake a series of complex measures for the social protection of Ukrainian citizens, especially those with limited resources, in connection with the formation of gas tariffs and residential services. Well, first of all, the most important thing that the government has already done is to reduce wages for residential services from the average monthly total income of families. This decline was done for the first time in Ukraine during the implementation of subsidies and was aimed at social protection for low-income citizens. Yes, for families with only pensioners, disabled persons and children under 18 years of age, the salary for gas and residential services has been reduced from 15 to 20 percent, and for families, from 15 to 10 percent. And for families from 20 percent, for other families, to 15. This reduction in gas and utility wages will lead to an increase in the number of families that will be given the right to grant subsidies. Despite the above, the government has made such a social decision, since it is a matter of low-income citizens. Costs for the stated goal are sought within the budget in the current year and will be foreseen for 2011. This will be done without an increase in the budget deficit. The other one. Equally important is the government's decision to simplify the award of gas subsidies and residential services. As of August 1, 2010, for the first time in Ukraine, people with disabilities do not need to go to social protection for grants. Social protection agencies have sent all pensioners and disabled persons appropriate forms for the assignment of subsidies and envelopes, where the address of the social security management already assigned is to be sent to the papers that fill out our respected pensioners. Pensioners and disabled persons send a grant application free of charge by mail. As of August 1, 2010, pensioners do not need to come to social protection and provide income support for grants. Such assistance is available to social protection agencies on their own in the pension fund. Since August 1, 2010, Ukrainian citizens do not need to come to social protection bodies and provide information on gas spending and housing services for the purpose of granting subsidies. Such help is available to social protection agencies in their respective organizations. Thirdly, the government has introduced a simplification of the recalculation of housing subsidies. Without turning citizens, I would stress that for the first time in the history of Ukraine, an automatic recalculation of the amount of subsidies assigned by August 1st of this year has been introduced. I'd like to report that it was already done, as promised, before the first number, but it was done a little earlier, and by the end of last week we finished it. On August 30, 2010, the census was made for all families who had subsidies assigned by January 1. Four. The government has taken appropriate steps to organize the work of the executive authorities for the granting of grants. Thus, from July 20 to August 9, 2010, all regions had working groups with grants held over 1,300 social protection councils at all levels and branches of government. Information and explanatory work is done and carried out in all regions by means of the media. Local social protection agencies have taken control of every small family that receives aid in the form of subsidies. Fifth. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that, in addition to the allocation of housing subsidies, the government has already undertaken and is planning to implement such additional complex measures for social protection of the population, such as, despite the fact that the overall impact of the economic crisis of previous years is not overtaken, despite a short period of time in which today's government is authorized, the debt of salaries, which has been reduced by 187 million dollars on 1 August of the current year as a result of the adoption of measures, has been reduced in the period 2008-2009. The government has approved measures to eliminate the debt on the basis of salary, and appropriate organizational and other work is under way. Next, the government's measures to stabilize. With regard to the stability of the economy, it was possible to increase the average salary of employees in the country as a whole in June 2009 against June 2009 by 21.1 per cent by 22.1 per cent. So in June of this year, she made 2,373 bracelets on average in Ukraine. The average wage increase for workers in June 2010 was achieved in all regions of Ukraine by June 2010. The largest increase in the average wage for workers over the period has been achieved: in the Plain region, 28.6 per cent has been increased, and the largest has been achieved in Kiev, 3,591 bracelets, in the Donetsk region, 2,618 bracelets and in the Dnipropetrovsk region, 2,432 bracelets. Compared with the previous year, real wages increased by 14.7 percent in June of the year to June of the past. The government will continue to ensure positive dynamics of these indicators, the government's measures to stabilize the economy in the current year have enabled social standards to be increased. Social standards have been introduced since the beginning of this year, regardless. That the State budget was only adopted at the end of April. I would like to tell you that the implementation of the social standards law is being implemented in the current year and will also be fully implemented in the last part of this year, as the funds for this are properly set up in the 2010 budget. The government will ensure an increase, as I said, from October 1st and December 1st this year, further increases in the minimum wage, minimum pension at the age, and the official salary of budget workers. If the budget was not reviewed by officials last year, the government has already increased its official salary in line with the one tariff grid of January 1, April 1, and July 1. In addition, the government increased its salaries from October 1st and December 1st. As a result, unlike last year, in the current year, with all the criticism, it can be said: “The government has taken up its duties and is carrying out them by raising its official salary five times a year.” It should be noted that in December of this year, living minimum, for example, will be 922 bracelets, 25 percent more against December of last year. The minimum pension will increase by 31.2 percent in the current year against 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, I can continue to list these measures, as the government will ensure by the end of the year that there will be an increase in the size of various types of state aids, citizens' monetary income indexes, pension recalculations, and so on. I think all of this shows that, despite the difficulties, the government will do its utmost to protect low-income citizens. I want to complete my report with these. The government is currently working on the 2011 State Budget. I assure you that the State Budget project will include an increase in social standards against the tenth year, which will also improve the social protection of our citizens in 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u190	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Please, let's sign up for a question. Yeah, five minutes. Please, Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u191	Klinkarov, the Communist faction. Vassili Ivanovich, I would like to say that the actual number of people who will claim a grant will triple. Will social protection management be able to do so? That's the first question. Second question. You know, there's a lot of questions in the country, because when you go to the subsidy offices, maybe there's a human factor that's working out, that's not the case, but they're trying to raise incomes at the cost of the pie itself. Therefore, I would like you, as Minister, to entrust the Social Protection Offices with all the positions and norms that will be taken into account in the accrual of these subsidies. And I'd like you to hear the subject anyway, because the villagers are probably the most vulnerable layers to date. And I think this position should be clearly identified by the Ministry of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u192	Thank you for asking. I'm in. With your permission, I'll start with the last part of your question. First. Only the income derived from the pie can be accounted for in the part of the pie. So if a person is processing himself, earning some income or renting, and that's why he gets there either in kind, like we do, or with money, and this has to be taken into account, divided by 12 months and distributed to receive subsidies. No account shall be taken of the value of the ration of the subsidy. Thank you for the signal. I pledge to bring this to all our district social security offices. In part one of your questions: Will everything be enough and what will be the possible number of participants wishing to receive subsidies? Prior to the adoption of the relevant decree by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minpraci, the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of Utilities and Minfina carried out the corresponding calculations and resources in the 2010 budget. I therefore declare with full responsibility all those wishing to grant. There's enough money in the budget. Therefore, there is no need to discuss the end of the number of people who wish or pay. All those who wish will receive the grant and will be paid in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u193	Please, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u194	Dear Vasil Ivanovich! I understand well, we all understand that increasing wages for utilities and gas on a full-time basis will benefit our opponents and will criticize and use it as a pianist. But it really is necessary. You know, you've made it clear about the mechanism for protecting the people involved. But what I want to ask you is, how much, according to Minpraci, will families benefit from housing subsidies? And if this mechanism really works, as you said, you don't have to train, you don't need papers. That since August 1, these subsidies will be listed. Will it not be so that as long as they turn around in the cities, we have information that we have addressed? Millions of people, and only thousands of people responded. Would it not be that even a good purpose would be to protect the least protected people to become that people would have to run and beat out these subsidies? What mechanism? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u195	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, for asking. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that when we did the right calculations, we thought we had some seasonal fluctuations on this subject. We've got about 800,000 families getting subsidies in the winter, because that's the most important option when both gas and heat are being spent, and all that. And about 200,000 we had subsidy recipients in the summer. We think this perspective is going to be about three times bigger. And we think, and there were calculations for that. But I would like to point out that we have, aside from these citizens, we have almost 7 million citizens, 7 million families have housing benefits, even though they don't get the right subsidies. It's starting with children of war, who have 25 percent of the benefits and end up with the disabled and veterans of the Great Homeland War, who have 100 percent of the benefits we get from housing services. So this is not a problem with the deadline for granting subsidies, and how quickly can this be done? I would like to inform you that in order to obtain a grant, our respected citizen has the opportunity to form it when he deems it appropriate, to address it accordingly. Another thing I'd like to say is that if he's even going to talk during October, for example, he has the ability, and this rule is set in a normative basis that his grant will be assigned in the last three months. That is, anyone who forms a grant may, as it were, take and form a grant within three months. So in spite of any obstacle, citizens can get a grant if they want, and it doesn't have to be done, as it were, day in and day out, in some way. But we think it's better if.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u196	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We'll give you the possibility of opposition in the discussion, you'll talk and you'll say what you want. Have a seat, please. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Grigory Mikhailovich Semchuk. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u197	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to begin my report on the completion of the work on the preparation of housing and utility for the autumn-winter period 2010-2011. According to the monitoring provided by our ministry, information from the housing and utility inspection, which is required to check the course of preparation for work during the winter period and to sign acts of readiness of objects only after all the work done. So today it can be said that life-sustaining objects technically will be prepared for work during the fall-winter period. Today, however, we are concerned about the very unsatisfying financial situation in the field. Debt growth, and primarily the population, for residential services consumed. Since the beginning of the year, accounts receivable have raised more than 12 billion dollars and increased by 10.5 percent until the corresponding period last year. There is an even higher rate of debt ratio of 14.2. The debt of the thermal power companies for the gas consumed reached almost 5.6 dollars. The reasons for this situation are known, not fully implemented, paid for services, tariffs have not been reviewed since 2008 and are being compensated for 75 percent of the value of energy in enterprises today. The losses of thermal power companies in the last year of 2009 amounted to nearly 3.2 billion dollars. By the first half of this year, they had reached 1.1 billion dollars. I started this conversation with preparation for winter, because winter is not too early, but the financial situation and generally the housing and utility situation are critical. The analysis of the indicators showed that the financial and economic situation of the sector is now 98-2000 years old. Thus, an increased price for natural gas by 50 percent for the population and for thermal energy companies in the community service sector will require a corresponding increase in central heating tariffs, the provision of hot water, since the cost of the services in question is 58 percent on average. According to the Ministry’s estimates, the expected increase in tariffs for heat services for the population will be 29.7 percent on average in Ukraine. The average heating tariff will increase by 82 kips per square metre of heated area, by hot water supply, by 4 hp 28 kps per cubic metre of hot water. I would like to point out that the calculation is made only on the basis of the increase in the price of gas, i.e. the gas component at the cost of 1 gigacalorie, which will increase from 179 dollars per calorie to 232 dollars. However, this increase in tariffs does not fully compensate for the costs of thermal power companies. The cost of the service will remain at 79 percent. Under these conditions, the cost of a one-bedroom apartment will increase by 1 person by 18 per cent, a two-bedroom apartment of 47.68 sq. m, where 3 people live by 21 per cent, a three-bedroom apartment of 62 sq.m. by 18 per cent. [[We were taking an average apartment.]] In doing so, the reported increase in tariffs does not take into account the increase in the cost of enterprises for wages, electricity prices, other material resources, and the cost-effectiveness of enterprises needed to modernize and renovate them. In terms of tariff rises, the government has gone on unprecedented measures to protect low-income populations, as reported by Vasil Ivanovich. In our ministry to implement the government's decision to increase the social protection of the population in the payment of housing services, a working group that I lead has been set up. The task of the group is: Coordination of activities at housing and utility establishments, as they are interested in subsidies, with the relevant MINSOC work services on the introduction of a simplified system for the processing and granting of subsidies, is now under way and seriously; the information accompanying the actions envisaged by the government's decision; timely response to requests from people who come in on an open "hot line" and others in the Ministry. I want to report that this week, work is already being done to hold bush meetings at the level of deputy ministers of our ministry and ministry. Cooperation on the assignment of housing subsidies to the simplified system from the involvement of district work commission managers, headquarters, and these are created, practically, in all areas, with governors leading them in a number of areas, and in a number of areas, their deputies, together with regional welfare authorities and housing and utility enterprises. In order to create additional conditions for the social protection of citizens who are entitled to subsidies, the Ministry has prepared, in practice, a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Act on the Restructuring of Debt for Services, which was established on December 1, 2006. The bill provides for the exclusion of the condition, you know, that subsidies are only granted to citizens when there is a contract to restructure the debt for residential services. That is, citizens are given the opportunity to receive subsidies, regardless of their proper debt for services in the past years. So we think that the work that's being done and going to be done will give us an opportunity to mitigate the situation of low-income services and, above all, to support housing and utility enterprises and, above all, thermal utility enterprises in order to get through the heating season of 2010-11 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u198	Please sign up for the questions. Yes, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u199	Dear Gregory Mikhailovich, you have called extremely serious sums for indemnities. Do you think once new tariffs are introduced, they'll increase these amounts? I realized that things were going to get bigger. Where does the family and any average wealth today pay for what they can't pay? And that's why I see one way: to be honest, it's a compensation for what's called the Rosukreenergo. It seems to me that this is the only motivation of the government for all the billions that have been found by the Stockholm Court to be sentenced by Ukraine to return to those who have contributed to this situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u200	Thank you for asking. I don't have the information that it's paying off some kind of traffic, I'm just going to tell you as a professional. Energy prices are going to go up, they're going to go up, they're going to go up, they're going to go up. And today we need to be objective about this. As for the protection of the underprivileged, this has already been the case, and I don't want to repeat myself. As far as tariff policy is concerned, we need to understand that in the situation where housing and utilities are now in, we are not going to do the reform, not the words that are being said today, but in fact we are not going to be able to get the housing systems out of the crisis that there is. No investor today will come into the bankruptcy system. We can't implement a state-owned private partnership in the field. So there's just no other way out. Well, as for tariffs, let's look objectively at things. in Kiev today is a cubic meter of water.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u201	Allow me to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u202	It's worth 1 bracelet of 62 cents. Is that right or wrong? And on the other hand, a minute, and on the other hand, when we go and buy half a liter of water in the store, it's already 2 bracelets. And on the other hand, you shouldn't create concessional conditions for those who can pay. Low-income is an unprecedented event -- 10 percent and 15 percent will be covered by the state, others will have to pay on a full-time program for what it costs or other services.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u203	Yes, Oleg Lazko, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u204	Oleg Lazko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of "The Fatherland". Dear Vassil Georgiyovich, you have now refused to answer the questions of MPs regarding the social protection of the population. I'm going to help you, but you just said that the government went to "unprecedented," and I quote you literally, protecting the population. I received a letter from Zaporozhye, a 21 - year - old woman who worked as a nurse. Yeah, well, Nina Illewna is reporting on your unprecedented defense. So in June, she received 49 copies of her pension allowance, 49 copies in August, 49 copies in September, and 49 in October. And she sent out two bracelets, and she's asking to hand over to the government ministers, yeah, let them try to live on the side of the pension allowance, pay, and so on. I'll tell you when the question is done. It's about your unprecedented defense. Next. I have another question. Naftogazu is responsible for the gas supplied.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u205	Complete the formulation of your question and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u206	Thank you. He owes 10 billion dollars. From the increase in gas tariffs, the government is planning to get 3 billion dollars. Why, instead of raising prices for gas and tariffs in the LHC, why not collect debts from private authorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u207	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u208	Thank you for asking. As far as pensions are concerned, I'd like you to contact the Pension Fund, the manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u209	It's an unprecedented move.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u210	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Well, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u211	Try to live on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u212	Wait a minute, I'm talking again. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u214	As to where the money goes for the gas raise, give it to the Minister of Energy. I told you, I'm an expert in housing. I told you about the situation in the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u215	Yes, please, Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u216	Please pass the word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u217	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u218	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Gregory Mikhailovich, I have a few questions for you. First question. The president and the coalition claimed that gas tariffs and residential services would not rise because they had left the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation for another 20 years in Ukraine and that Russia had reduced the price of gas. To date, it has been established that Russia has not reduced the price of gas by a single cent, because that $100 has been set aside for the government debt of Ukraine, and in 10 years it has been written down by 40 billion dollars for Ukrainians. Is that a reason or a reason? And the second question. Is our discussion concluded today, and what is your role here at the rostrum? You report, the minister reports, we don't have any documents, you've already made your decisions in the government. We have two draft decisions: one from the Party of Regions, the other from the Communists. Communists say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u219	Okay, so we're done here? Finish up, five seconds, as long as you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u220	Communists say they're against price hikes, but they say let the population pay the price on August 1. On August 1st, the tariff was raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u221	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u222	I've already said that tariffs haven't risen, housing and utility tariffs haven't increased for two years, since 2008. I've been saying again since 2008. As far as tariff policy is concerned. I'm not a politician, I'm a professional. And where and what is this question not for me. I'm just going to give you a simple example. And let's not politicize the situation. I told you once again: the housing situation is critical: tariffs don't meet the costs, investments in the industry don't go. I'll give you just two examples. Today, Ukraine has 75 thousand,831 boilers, more than 20 years of exploitation, 16254 units, and 21.4 percent. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u223	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u224	We have calculated just to replace these boilers with ineffective ones, less than 82 percent of which are useful. 105 boilers of 7 000, where the benefit ratio is 45 percent, it takes a little -- not a lot -- 3 billion 738 million dollars. How can we get out of this situation where we can get the money? And in general, we can go to a communal farm for such a period that all these systems will fail. What will we do then? So I'm once again, honourable national deputies, you know me, I've always told the truth and I'll tell. I am responsible for reform in this area. And I really see what's going on in this area. Let's think about how to get her out of the crisis. Or let's just say there's a result. Let's go back to the Soviet Union when the population budget covered 95 percent of the expenses of businesses, five percent more faithful.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u225	Thank you. Please sit down. Gregory Mikhailovich, time's up. Dear colleagues! We have a draft decision. I propose that we now listen for three minutes to Alexander Ephraim's draft decision. Then we will consider how we will continue to discuss the matter. Because there are complaints that we are delaying the consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u226	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On the basis of information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of social protection measures in relation to the formation of housing and utility tariffs, a draft corresponding decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed for adoption. And it's on your hands. The Supreme Council of Ukraine takes note that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is taking measures to protect the population socially in connection with the formation of gas tariffs and residential services. According to the draft decree, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should ensure a reduction in the mandatory remuneration for residential services, including payment for gas from 15 to 10 per cent of the average total income for families with pensioners, disabled persons and children up to 18 years of age, and from 20 to 15 per cent for other families with working citizens. The introduction of a simplified housing grant system, including the payment of gas, which provides for the release of citizens from the collection of help, including family composition, the cost of utilities, and the assignment of subsidies. The provision of information materials on the assignment of selected subsidies to citizens, the provision of media education, and appropriate consultations with local authorities in all regions. Together with the local authorities, without turning citizens over for housing subsidies by August 1, 2010, the cost of housing services, including the payment of scrapped gas, solid and liquid combustion fuel. Ensure, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2010, an increase of 1 October and 1 December 2010 in the living minimum, minimum wage, minimum pension at the age, office salary, I tariff level of the Single Tariff Network for the determination of salaries for budget workers and for the approval of periods of pay for higher pensions, salaries for budget workers and all types of State aid. Measures to pay off arrears by economic operators in 2008-2009. Paying wages, pensions, scholarships, and all kinds of government assistance from all levels of budgets is defined to help protect the most underprivileged citizens. And the next thing you see in that determination. In accordance with the draft decree of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local government administrations and local authorities are obliged to ensure that citizens are treated in an orderly manner with regard to the granting of housing subsidies beyond the rule of tenure or the use of the total area.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u227	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u228	And standards for the use of residential services. According to the draft decree, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is required to inform the Supreme Council by October 10 of this year of the implementation of this decree. We propose to support the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u229	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, this is not a co-reporter. Dear colleagues, please note the procedure that governs the hearing of information. This is not a consideration of an ordinary matter. Now, let's, dear fellows, propose that the faction speak. Please sign up, statements from factions. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Alla Alexandrovska, Valérie Calchenko, Davidenko, Chechetov, Zarubinsky In this order, please. Well, from the deputies, let's see what's left of us in time, then let's move on. Please, Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u230	The Communist faction has consistently suggested that measures be taken to prevent rising prices and tariffs for housing and utilities. More than 10 draft legal acts have only been introduced by the faction in the last two years in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but they have been blocked by both the orange Government and those in parliament who are not interested in helping our people. As early as June of this year, we have reintroduced the draft Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Registration Law 6477, on moratoriums on the raising of prices and tariffs on residential services and on the consumption of natural gas, electricity, food, necessities and public transport services. Last week, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, sponsored by Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko, was registered on priority measures to prevent rising prices and tariffs for housing and utilities. What do the Communists offer? We have proposed not to increase the prices and tariffs that I have already listed before paying off the wages. Regrettably, for today, wages have reached nearly 800 million bracelets. We suggested that the cost of housing services should not exceed 10 per cent of the average monthly income of the family, which is taken into account by the Government, and taken into account by the decision of Ephraim. We suggested that the calculation of the heat consumed by the tenants should be calculated per square metre for the actual heat consumed by the calculators. We know that people sit in the cold with you, but they pay the bills that the publicists pay them. It is clear to all that raising tariffs and prices does not solve the financial problems of the State and only exacerbates the sense of hopelessness among people. I would like to draw attention to the problems that the Government is not aware of. These are the problems that need to be addressed. Subsidies. It would appear that the grant procedure is being simplified, but I recall that the people, the Ukrainian citizens who have pies, are deprived of the right to grant. We know how they are calculated. We know what they are getting for this, and we exclude this colossal category of Ukrainian citizens from the right to receive State aid if the family needs it. I would like to point out that we actually have children without the help of the State, because if a father or a mother cannot legally produce a workbook, and we have a lot more of them, we are actually leaving these families without support even when these families have children, including many children. I believe that the Government must make a decision, necessarily to grant subsidies to families with children, whether registered as unemployed parents or not. And one more question. NCRE sets out the gas tariffs that our people consume for housing according to the volume of this gas. However, it is clear to all that if there are many children in the family, if the family is large enough, it naturally consumes a lot of gas. We punish the families of many children who must. They're forced, they're forced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u231	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u232	These multi-child families naturally receive, consume more gas, and are forced to pay for gas at a higher rate. This NCRE should be reviewed and taken into account that when calculating new gas prices, it is necessary to make the price dependent not only on the amount of gas consumed but on the number of family members who consume the gas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u233	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, BUT faction. Next will be John the Rabbit of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u234	Dear voters! By considering the social protection of people from the terrible gas - price explosion, utilities, food, it is clear that the coalition wants to release a couple, bring powerful national discontent to the brakes. But it's not that easy and simple. Can you not see that the world’s economic and financial crises, multiplied by the unprecedented natural disasters, have caused more than a million, billions of people in all parts of the planet to suffer. And nowhere did the authorities dare make up for the huge losses just to the people. See, in Russia, a law has been passed according to which prices regulated by the state of gas, electricity, utilities can under no circumstances increase by more than 22 percent over a year. The experts there counted everything: inflation, pensions, wages, political risks, and decided that the following year, despite catastrophic damage from fires, droughts, municipal tariffs would increase by only 15 percent. This law is personally under the control of the President. What do we got? Borrow it yourself, not by 22 percent, but by 220 percent, we had gas for the population and not in a year, but in just 9 months, because in May it will go up 1.5 more times. It costs everything, plus expensive grain, to bring bread, grains, meat, milk, and so forth. At the same time, we are still living or not in the poorest nation in Europe, where more than half of the budget is spent on food for almost every family. But where people will carry their blood money, especially when you are sure to pass the draconian foam law in which, in fact, the majority of Ukrainian families will be judged. People will starve, and people will have to pay for the apartment and for the gas because the debts will be taken away. A recent official statement has been made that the real sign of overcoming the crisis has been for the first time in the last two years of a three - percent increase in retail sales, which is good. But what will be the course after such a wild increase in gas prices and utilities? Someone calculated how much the internal market would fall, and then a particular economy of real businesses, jobs, wages, budget accounting, the Pension Fund? True, you are also going to raise your retirement age unconditionally and sharply, and within a few years the pension in Ukrainians can be much greater than in Europeans, because those who are fortunate will have units. As the classic put it: “But there will be no better time for me or you to live. ” And you can't benefit from subsidies here, they have economic and social sense when they cover not more than 15-20 percent of the people, and we're going to need rescue four times more. You're not gonna make it up to everyone. In fact, the people were prepared for unpopular decisions, but not for themselves, because people were promised otherwise. The electorate expected such a powerful concentration of power, you say, “screw the tail” to the magnets, force them to create jobs, increase wages, save energy, modernize production.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u235	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u236	I'm sorry, there's no such thing yet. There may be a shortage of personnel or laws. They're rich. It's your questions, solve them, but not on people's account, they're not limitless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u237	John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u238	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for this decision? From my point of view, there is no need for that. The government has made all the decisions. If we are to make serious decisions, there is a law, not a decision. Hence, it may be necessary to cover up a person’s calculations. Protecting citizens should be done especially when their social situation deteriorates, but who has made their social situation worse? This is a coalition, this is the President, and this is the government. Therefore, respectable ones, and look for a way out of this situation. Instead of finding a way out, you're running this pear company, you're still lying to people. We didn't drag you by your tongue when you ratified the Harkow Agreements and said that we would ratify them in order to continue the territory of Ukraine for 20 years under the Black Sea Russian Navy, and the Russian authorities would lower our gas prices for that. But you know very well that Russia didn't reduce the price of gas by one cent, it just said that we're going to split this price by two parts, you're going to pay living money by $239 or $269 per thousand cubic meters, and we're going to put $100 on your government debt to Russia, and in four years, Ukrainian citizens will have 40 billion government debt to the Russians. But you told people that, didn't you? We told you not to do this, do not trade in the land, do not trade in Ukraine, tell your citizens honestly, you did not listen to us. Now let us take this determination. What is the name of this decree? The social protection of the population in connection with the formation of gas tariffs and residential services. As you can see, a great lie creates great problems, a small lie produces not small but big problems. It says that we should strengthen social protection in connection with tariff formation. Honestly, given the sharp rise in tariffs for gas and residential services, it'll be fair, not mere formation. There's a formula for that, and there's some legislative mechanisms for that. So once again, we see an effort not to tell the truth, an effort to translate all the coalition calculations into the citizens' shoulders, which we absolutely cannot agree with. So my suggestion is that we don't need to take this decision today, we need to take it to the government's known information at an extreme point. And the government should tell us today not what they want to do, but according to the order of the day what has already been done. And so if they were to say what they did, then we wouldn't have any other draft regulations, where one point says let's impose a moratorium, and the other point says let's say that citizens pay for those tariffs that the government has already set for August 1st, that is to say raise. Let's raise it and then the moratorium. It's not state policy, it's a waste to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u239	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. He has the right to speak from the Hara Vasil Georgievicz faction. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, the performance of the former has now been on the table for five years. The calf is torn apart, and they say, "At the expense of the people, how can this be!" And how could this be undertaken by 2.5 times the same price for gas? How did one third of the country's economy get destroyed? How could they have destroyed the financial system? And now they say we can't raise any prices. You must bear the responsibility and repent for what you have done to the country in five years. If we reject all these slogans politically, the question is, can we stop this process or can't we? Answer: We can't. The second question arises: How can we protect the social and harmful sectors of the population that are unable to overcome this increase? That's exactly the order he's proposing. The point is that the first and the most important is to lower the threshold for poor people from their total income by 5 per cent. We've done calculations, according to many statements there, especially with regard to pensioners, they'll pay no more, not even less, than they paid today. Which reduces by 5 per cent to 15 per cent for the working family and to 10 per cent for the pensioners. Today, some 300,000 families receive subsidies. By reducing this level, we provide, by increasing the number of families that will receive this social protection from the State. Almost a million and a half, four times. Second. The procedure for obtaining grants with a licence for the applicant is simplified. He wrote a statement that the Cabinet of Ministers sent you, he wrote his statement on his income, he put it in the envelope that Kabmin sent you, he sent to JECK. And the rest of the headache in housing and utilities. Next. Of course, it's a very important commitment. But as long as things go bad, let's face it. But payback and timely population income indexation. Unfortunately for us today, we have $1 billion in arrears. That's a very important question. Next thing you know, it's very important. A proposal to those veterans who live in the area is slightly larger than the one to receive subsidies is made to ensure that they receive benefits, even if the area is affected. And the last. What is proposed here, of course, needs to be strengthened so that people know what rights they have, what they have done, must be done to obtain during the grant. And we have to do it. We make this decision and protect those who are unable to pay today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u241	Finish up, please. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u242	Vladimir Mikhailovich, 30 seconds literally, yes. The draft regulation was considered at the Committee's meeting today. The authors are Ephraim and Sharov. The Committee, well, of all those who participated, unanimously supported the decision to recommend this order, and you have it in your hands. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u243	Oleg Zarubinski, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u244	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. The issue of the Electoral Law is very good today. The question of return is even better. But really the most pressing question, the most pressing question, is what we're looking at today. And what was put into the agenda of the day's extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council this question is already a positive one. The only thing, Your Honor Vassil Ivanovich, I have asked you a few questions. But because it's a question, although it's the right thing to do, to do social protection, but unfortunately, my colleagues have often talked a lot about other things. I'd be interested, I think our citizens were interested, for example, in whether they could apply for a grant from a non-resident. The other one. In which cases a person may refuse to grant grants to be clearly indicated. I think that these are the very questions that should be very well explained to people because it is clear how much we are not discussing, but the key to these social measures that are foreseen are subsidies. And apparently, for the government today, the main thing is how these subsidies will be accounted for and how subsidies can soften the problem of tariff increases. In view of this from the Lithuanian Block, from the People's Party, I would like to propose that we and the forms be very practical, real, human, I would say, used to make it clear, 10 percent is how much? 15 percent for workers is what? To show this to people in the congregations of the village, if they had to pay more, how much would they pay? This raise in the tariffs of people with disabilities under the age of 18 is as pervasive as it falls below 10 percent. Is that what I'm saying? It seems to us that we need to move to a practical plane so that those people who really can't pay for it don't get hurt, they don't get hurt. Because, you know, in the people, it's the right thing to say that the soup is rare and the pearls are small. This should be directed, including this determination, to those with a liquid soup rather than to those with small pearls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we have been discussing this issue for an hour, it might be that you agree: each fraction per minute, please, your attitude toward the draft decision we are about to make. We've been talking about questions for an hour. Where else are we going, dear colleagues? Please, in a minute. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone. Then Oleg Laško, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u246	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, many suffering our citizens! The decision, which is called “The Social Protection of the Population”, is a weak comfort to the situation that has taken place in the country. I am stressing to you and to those who are organizing meetings today that the government's information has not been issued to the national MPs. One. And please don't do that again. The other one. I think it has to be urgent to oblige all energy and utility providers, which is heat, gas, hot and cold water to set the counters at their own expense, and these counters should be their own production, this time. And secondly, I suggest you write it down here and cancel the adoption of the Tax Co. Project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u247	Complete your position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u248	I make it very clear, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like you to write it down for the stenographer. commit all energy and utility providers: heat, gas, water, hot and cold to install counters at their own expense. And oblige the Ministry of Industry to ensure the release of these counters***, its installation as soon as possible. This will contribute to the economy of the budget, the reduction of debt and will contribute to the fight against corruption that is in this area. I also ask you to write down that you should cancel the adoption of the Tax Code, because you and I have written down a project based on a new budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u250	Budget and tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u251	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, if we look at tax legislation, then we will be determined. Then we'll figure it out. Please calm down. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected citizen of Ukraine, we have now heard the government's information about how they are unprecedentedly protecting people. I want to give you some figures that deny it. The 2010 budget provides nearly six billion dollars to the population for aid and housing subsidies, and nearly a million people consume it. Today, government officials have told us that as a result of the unprecedented protection of Ukrainian citizens, the number of those who will be protected by the government and who will have the right to a grant will increase by at least three, four times. If we have six billion dollars in this year's budget, let's count if four times or three times the number of recipients of the grant is going to be 18 billion dollars in the next year's budget. Which one of you would believe that the government would put an extra 18 billion dollars in to warm up everyone and grant subsidies? I want to remind you that the August increase in pensions, which we were told so much about, cost us 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u253	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u254	So talking about unprecedented protection is no more than talking. And as a result, those who have pies -- they can't get a grant, those who don't work -- don't. Unregistered – they are unable to obtain subsidies because the government is handing out subsidies. The draft decree that we are offered on social protection in relation to tariff formation does not solve this problem in the face of a shameful increase in tariffs. The solution to this problem is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u255	Thank you. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u256	The problem is to introduce a moratorium on gas and population tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u257	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u258	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think that the Government has given a rather thorough description of the work being done on social protection of the population in connection with the change in tariffs for gas and housing and utilities, housing and utilities. We know that the main challenge that is being tackled is that we need to get our oil and gas complex out of bankruptcy, ensure its effective work, enable it to generate normal prices that will ensure a strategy for the development of this strategic enterprise, thereby increasing the amount of domestic gas and reducing our energy dependence. In order to make these processes less painful, a decree has been drawn up by Alexander Sergeevich Efremov and Igor Sharov, who gives appropriate instructions to the Government to streamline the work on social protection. I think that this decision will greatly improve this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u259	Yeah, who else from the factions? Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u260	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. The draft regulation correctly defines the main objectives and objectives and what the Government has done. And the First Deputy Minister of Housing, Semchuk Grigori Mihajlovich, rightly raised the question that the Government really understood that it would be better to subsidize housing and utilities in general than to open up this cumbersome system of accounting, indeed, for the material condition of everyone. And we understand that we must invest as much in the budget as possible in upgrading housing and utilities, in restoring it, which is practically destroyed. This ruling is in principle correct, but I believe that what happened today in the Hall is useful to both the Government and our citizens who have heard our views on these issues. But I remind you again, there are problems of children, problems of families. Today, if the mother does not have a legally registered workbook, the entire family is deprived of the right to grant. Make such adjustments, depending on your income.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u261	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u262	Please consider the possibility of alleviating these requirements for families where there are children. Please. Ask NCRE to review the principle of gas tariffs, taking into account not only the amount of gas that the family receives, but also the number of family members. Today we punish families with children, this is a very serious issue, and we Communists insist that they be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u263	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, Jaroslav Jojik, and we are about to make our final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u264	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of us that on April 22nd, when there was a political Chernobyl in the Supreme Council, after that day power was guaranteed no rise in gas prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u265	I wrote it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u266	In view of the 50 percent increase in gas in our country, there is such a proposal by the Ukrainian People’s Party to supplement the proposed decision. To entrust the Government of Ukraine with taking action on the denunciation of the agreement on the 25-year extension of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-08-30-m0.u267	With regard to the final proposal, given the very sensitivity of this proposal, please form a separate draft ruling and I think we will consider it accordingly by proceeding with the Rules. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. The subject is extremely complex. I have to say that instead of talking about what we need to do together, we have brought our conversation together to find our enemies. The calls sounded to one another. We all have to look for a way out and work if we're to offer alternative proposals, but they have to be argued in order not to be able to give them up. So let's, honourable colleagues, understand that we should go back to this issue, just as it is suggested by the draft of the relevant decision. So in this case, the proposal is that, honourable colleagues, put the draft decision to the vote. With regard to proposals for a moratorium, this is neither a topic nor a matter of determination, for a moratorium can be imposed exclusively by law. We have appropriate draft laws, we'll look at them, then we'll be able to give each other a point of view and make the only right decision. That is why this proposal cannot be taken into account today. And that's because there are two corresponding bills. We'll see about that. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Social Protection in relation to the formation of tariffs for gas and housing services for adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 7058]] [[15:03:42]] For 240 Decision taken. There was an offer by Yuri Anatoliovich. One minute! We'll take the finals, then we'll be in factions. There was a proposal made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the establishment of counters to control the circulation of water, gas, and other energy carriers. Our own production was all the more so, the offer. This proposal was made by one minute! - Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. I am voting on the inclusion of a proposal in the draft regulation in the form of assignments from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to resolve the issue of setting up self-producers for circulation. For the calculation of energy carriers. Please vote. [[15:04:49]] For 256 The offer is included. With this proposal in mind, I am voting on the adoption of a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on social protection in relation to the formation of gas tariffs and residential services for adoption as a whole. [[Registration number 7058]] Please vote. [[15:05:25]] For 244 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! The factions, please. Region Party – 169, BUT – 19, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 7, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion will begin its work on Tuesday, September 7, 2010. And I now declare the sixth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
