ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The opening ceremony of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Present Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov and members of the government, please welcome. [[Applause]] Head and Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors, Authorized for Human Rights, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of diplomatic representation of foreign states, other officials. Ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of the Republic of Lithuania, headed by Mrs. Irena Diagutien, is in Ukraine with an official visit. Please welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:43]] They registered in the 399 National Deputies Sessional Hall. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine to the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the sixth call is made public. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u2	Dear national MPs, honored guests, honored guests! A new political season begins, and a new session of the Supreme Council begins. What challenges are facing our country? We have to answer these challenges. First of all, one of the main issues is the fight against an economic crisis, a crisis that has been emerging in the world for more than two years. In 2010, Ukraine showed more than six percent of domestic gross domestic product growth in the first half of the year. More than 11 percent increase in production, but these are just the first signs of economic recovery, and it certainly can't calm us down with you today, because much needs to be done to create all the conditions for the economy to move. And that's what reform is all about. Reforms that have virtually begun today. A mechanism has been put in place to implement reforms in a country that needs some change before legislation and adoption of necessary new legislation. Dear colleagues, you and I have begun a judicial reform. The Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges has been passed. Today, in fact, it's starting to come true. Today, the country is preparing for the country’s most prominent reunion of judges, which will for the first time in the history of Ukraine, virtually all organs of judicial self - government. A very important part of our work together with you is raising the standard of living of people. I understand we're not going to do this very quickly. But year after year, when we raise the level of economics, we have to raise the standard of living. So the income of our citizens, the average wage, and so on. This work also needs a coordinated work by the government, the Supreme Council, and the President. And we owe you one step at a time to raise the standard of living, and we will do so. Dear colleagues, I would also like to refer to the national MPs, to say that it doesn't matter to me whether the opposition or the coalition is all equal. I respect you all. And I would like us to work together to build the future of our country. I wish there was always a mind in this room that would outweigh emotions and political passions. I'm willing to do everything I can to get the Supreme Council to make country-specific decisions. First of all, these decisions must put order in the country so that the law, respect for the law, and the rule of law protect every human being. In the end, we're all the same, and today people expect the Supreme Council to do whatever it takes for people in the countries to be able to work peacefully, so that the number of jobs does not increase so that there is no policy that makes people hostile to each other. The preceding local elections are October 31st. I'm as interested as anyone in getting them through with clarity and honesty. And I think if we do this with you, we're going to take a joint next step towards building a democratic state that will develop in the future and that will be respected in the world. Today, the world is changing. You and I know that 20 years in the country have been difficult, but we have lived together in peace. And God forbid we keep living. The next year is the 20th year of our state's independence. It needs to be celebrated as the year of our country's reunification, so that our steps are directed at the fact that the Ukrainian people live together under the only roof of a strong country that we will be proud of. Dear colleagues, I wish there was always a healthy competition in this room and common sense. I wish the Supreme Council success and all of us a concerted work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u3	The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u4	Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Welcome to the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This session has been entrusted with a responsible legislative mission to provide a system reform programme, but the so-called opposition is once again trying to destabilize the country. Its leaders, who have not yet been able to shake the sand of the most expensive resorts in Sardinia, have taken a bold step to protect the seemingly poor people of Ukraine. No one interferes with them, especially in the years in power, they have accumulated sufficient financial resources both for expensive recreation and for political piranhas, which is not something to say about the country they left bankrupt. Last night's punishment isn't just. Last night, not only did the authorities leave an empty sentence, but it burdened citizens, taxpayers, astronomical debts. It was only in March that our government had to pay six billion debts to Timoshenko, the country had no budget, the International Monetary Fund had stopped its cooperation with our country, the state had the most unfavourable gas supply contract in its history. The price of gas was already $330 per thousand cubic metres in the first quarter of the year, and the quarterly price was increasing. The stock was also not only empty but also burdened with debts. The system of government was completely destroyed, and corruption was everywhere. That's what they left in the country. And what do they propose now? Moratorios, populist decisions that drive the country to a standstill. What's the count? That people have little memory and that they have forgotten, as Timoshenko has assured that rising pensions and wages are financial terrorism and a nuclear bomb under the stability of the state. Opposition attempts based on hypocrisy, lies, and deception are doomed to failure. The country’s economy is gradually recovering, construction is being rebuilt, and the stability of government finances has been established. The government has $1.6 billion in currency accounts, more than 13 billion in currency bills. This is a solid basis for stable financing of budgetary expenditure and planning for large-scale reforms in the country. We've restored funding for long-term programs, we've successfully implemented a number of large infrastructure projects, and the country's been tested for floods and droughts. But the country led by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic endured this test. Dear colleagues, the stability of the situation in the country has allowed us to proceed with the reform agenda proposed by the President of Ukraine. We have a clear and clear plan of legislation and organizational steps on this path. The main task of the government and this issue, I hope for fruitful cooperation with Parliament, is to design and adopt the country's 2011 budget. It is in this document that we, together, must foresee a financial mechanism for reforming the country. Convinced, in the near future, you and I will adopt a revised Tax Code aimed at speeding up the modernization and upgrading of the country. It envisions a significant reduction in tax burden and incentive for the development of new technologies. In carrying out the President's mandate, we've developed a series of bills to regulate the economy, to reduce administrative pressure on business. We are working on improving the investment climate in Ukraine. I think one of the priorities of government activity is to build a new relationship with the regions. It's precisely next year that we have to start a process of financial strengthening of the regions, giving them real importance to the development of our economy. We are starting a complex process of reforming the country and at the same time declaring a course for strong and powerful social policies. Together with Parliament this year, we will be able to develop a legislative framework and take the first real steps to transform our social sphere into an effective mechanism to ensure the interests of our citizens. Thank you for your attention. I wish you a fruitful job.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u6	Highly worthy President! Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, heads of state institutions, guests, dear colleagues! In the last five years or not, the President of Ukraine, the government, the heads of all state institutions, and this is evidence that there is an understanding that power is the only one. [[Congrats]] There are different powers, but we have to work together and share responsibility, not to divide the country into our own and our own. That is, this session will have its own features and will determine whether Ukraine will go through reforms and upgrades, whether we will be involved in political relations again. Especially given that the possibilities for reform are exhausted from the top and the resources of the state, as the Prime Minister of Ukraine has said, are exhausted. Ukraine must work, develop on its own basis as an independent state. And in this regard, the next six months and six months of our work will be determined as far as we can go with you, your honourable colleagues, to provide in the legislative plan, in the control plan, the transformations that the President of Ukraine has witnessed. And we have to say, frankly, that there is political will, there is a vision that we need to do, now that we have one job, our work, so that the reforms can be put into practice. Of course, what will give signs of complication, the traditional Ukrainian complication, is the continuation of the relationship after the presidential election. At the same time, I think it is necessary to stress that there is an attempt in Ukraine today to repeat the scenario of Ukraine's development 10 years ago. And you know what got ahead of it, and if you analyze what's happening today, what's being imposed today is an attempt to repeat those events 10 years ago. And there's a big danger: breaking down and losing the country. So I ask each of you, dear fellows, to ask each one of you to consider from what time, why, and who is circling the country? The answer, I think, is on the surface for everyone. By examining the final period of our lives. The conflict center is not in the Supreme Council, not in the Supreme Council. The problem is the employment of several people. Perhaps a country should all gather and redeem itself from these people? [[Applause]] Yesterday, I would point out, yesterday was an agreement that today would address the issues of the sessions offered by both the coalition and the opposition. Two questions, including moratorium and energy security. Where is the implementation of our agreements?Oh, my God! Where?Oh, my God! I would like to point out to you once again that a deal was reached yesterday, and this deal was broken at night. I'm not throwing a pearl at you, please! We need to calm down all of us. Dialogue and reforms. It's not just going to be based on the local election campaign, but it's going to have to be done. We have to do everything we can to ensure that our unthinkable actions, rather than the centre of political opposition in the Supreme Council, do everything we can to ensure that the country is not finally killed by thoughtless decisions, not by deliberate actions. I can give you a lot of examples, and starting with the social standards laws, now on the moratorium. Who signed the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund? Thesis: “We have signed, but we have not done, and we are not going to do,” does not pass because it is a state, not a political sandstone for someone. Once signed, we have to do it. And let's all work together on the previous memorandum and today's memo, since we've already brought the country into it. The fundamental tasks to be carried out by the Supreme Council in a single coordinate system are to ensure the efficiency of the State in preserving unity and political stability; to introduce deliberate systemic reforms that are not aimed at happiness but at unlocking creative potential for each individual as well as for the nation as a whole. This can only be done on the basis of trust, both within the country and in relations with the world. This was suggested by the president of Ukraine. Let's support it as a minimum. Those who do not want to do so will not be hindered, and then we will be evaluating the results of the work done. It's impossible. There's nothing I can do. Let's give the country a chance. And let us stop being beggars and critics of our state, especially when we are outside the country or with representatives of other nations. In doing so, we humiliate the country. The country's renewal is only possible on the basis of a new quality of power, a new quality of government policy. At this point of view, without sound, we need to approach the Constitution and work on it. And we need to make a decision today, your honorary colleagues, to unify the terms of office of city heads and deputies. Let's take this step. The important thing is to move away from instincts and the low intellectual level of conversation. We don't have an intellectual level of conversation, and the Supreme Council, unfortunately, can't set that tone. Stop lowering the country in the heat of fighting and resisting primitives. Difficult problems simply cannot be solved. Clearly, truth and reform are always painful. If we are to be serious, we should not be guided by the goal of creating political baggage and increasing ratings. It was good like us. If we had stopped the rating war in Ukraine, then it would have been practical work. Because we're with you, dear fellows, as if we know everything we have to do and how to do it, but we don't know how to make people choose us again. Let's take that into account. Speaking of the backbone of our work, we should say that of the two alternatives to building a country according to post - Soviet or European examples, we choose the last. And stop talking about someone dragging the country. No one has ever dragged their people anywhere unless they want to move in one direction or another. People need stability, the health of parents and children, and the confidence of tomorrow. They have it because of our constant screams, our groanings, our curses directed at each other? No, it's not. Do they respect us for this? No, it's not. So let's work. If not, let's say we don't want to work. Yeah, we don't want to work, we don't want to relax, and we don't want anything. Let's talk about all the issues and make all the decisions. I want to say again, yesterday an understanding was reached. What's today? I assure you that this has been reached with the faction head and Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Mikola Tomenko, that we will open the session today, then we will consider the results of the discussion of the International Tax Code, then we will consider two questions about moratorium and energy security. It was a deal. You broke it. We will then act according to the schedule that was previously proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine for participating in the opening ceremony of the session, Prime Minister of Ukraine, all present. And, with your permission, I'm escorting the President, and we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I inform you in accordance with the approved plenary plan for the seventh session, we have a plenary this week, we work in full plenary mode. I now request that, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of Procedure, the factions sign up for the performance. We have 30 minutes on that. Please record. Please, on the board. Please Vladimir Moisik, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Who will act? From “Our Ukraine, ” who has the word? Please, Illashov, the Party of Regions. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of Regions, will be followed by Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u9	Deeply esteemed presiding officers, respected colleagues! On behalf of the Deputy faction of the Party of the Regions, allow me to congratulate you on the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, our country is at the threshold of fundamental change. The time of political upheaval in Ukraine is over. President Viktor Janukovic has established a strong, stable and professional management vertical and has embarked on a plan of deep reforms that are vital to Ukraine. As people's deputies and members of the Stability and Reform coalition, we see our task in legislative support for the creation of a new architecture of power, the establishment of a foundation for the development of the State. Along with the consideration of individual laws, the importance of our task is the systematization of the legislative field, the adoption of laws, codes. Already adopted by Parliament and signed by the President, the Budget Code, which enhances the rights of the regions and the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which initiated judicial reform. After a public discussion at the Supreme Council today, you know, there will be a report and a new draft Tax Code will be introduced soon. Its adoption should make a qualitative change in the relationship between the State and business, the State and the human person. The adoption of the document would enable the Government to develop the 2011 State Budget project on a new tax basis. An important step, I hope, will be the adoption by the Parliament of the Electoral Code, which aims to bring everyone's conduct together without exception. The need for such a document was claimed by the majority of the political forces. During the intersessional period, in an extreme situation caused by an unprecedented heat, the State authority ensured the normal functioning of the country. In a short time, the situation in the Ukraine economy has been stabilized. During the first half of the year, the real gross domestic product increased by 6.3 per cent. Inflation per six months was 3.3 per cent with annual forecast 13. Industrial production increased by 12 per cent and agriculture by almost 3.5. Despite adverse weather conditions, the country has a good harvest of almost 40 million tons, which will keep the grain market stable under government control. Today people are concerned about energy prices, public tariffs. In criticizing the power to increase prices, the opposition is silent that it is the legacy of Prime Minister Timoshenko, the price of gas that has been delivered, and the agreements it has concluded with the IMF to increase tariffs on housing and utility services, which have forced us to engage in difficult negotiations with the Russian Federation. Waiting for a radical improvement of the situation is too early. There are too many problems. A large part of budgeted and employed abroad is spent, not on development, but on the payment of external and domestic debt under the obligations of the previous Government. Of course, the recovery achieved is not enough to solve all existing problems. And only after the planned reforms will we be able to fully fill the budget, move away from the need to make it available to the Pension Fund will this money be directed towards other purposes, including addressing social problems of society. We realize that in no country of the world, profound reforms have been painless. But we do not tell people sweet stories, but to be honest, to live in abundance, the whole country will have to work hard. In doing so, all social compensators are used by the authorities to protect the living standards of the least deprived. And the leaders who sign up for the factions' Rules. We have 30 minutes on that. Please record. Please, on the board. Please Vladimir Moisik, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Who will act? From “Our Ukraine, ” who has the word? Please, Illashov, the Party of Regions. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of Regions, will be followed by Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u10	Deeply esteemed presiding officers, respected colleagues! On behalf of the Deputy faction of the Party of the Regions, allow me to congratulate you on the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, our country is at the threshold of fundamental change. The time of political upheaval in Ukraine is over. President Viktor Janukovic has established a strong, stable and professional management vertical and has embarked on a plan of deep reforms that are vital to Ukraine. As people's deputies and members of the Stability and Reform coalition, we see our task in legislative support for the creation of a new architecture of power, the establishment of a foundation for the development of the State. Along with the consideration of individual laws, the importance of our task is the systematization of the legislative field, the adoption of laws, codes. Already adopted by Parliament and signed by the President, the Budget Code, which enhances the rights of the regions and the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which initiated judicial reform. After a public discussion at the Supreme Council today, you know, there will be a report and a new draft Tax Code will be introduced soon. Its adoption should make a qualitative change in the relationship between the State and business, the State and the human person. The adoption of the document would enable the Government to develop the 2011 State Budget project on a new tax basis. An important step, I hope, will be the adoption by the Parliament of the Electoral Code, which aims to bring everyone's conduct together without exception. The need for such a document was claimed by the majority of the political forces. During the intersessional period, in an extreme situation caused by an unprecedented heat, the State authority ensured the normal functioning of the country. In a short time, the situation in the Ukraine economy has been stabilized. During the first half of the year, the real gross domestic product increased by 6.3 per cent. Inflation per six months was 3.3 per cent with annual forecast 13. Industrial production increased by 12 per cent and agriculture by almost 3.5. Despite adverse weather conditions, the country has a good harvest of almost 40 million tons, which will keep the grain market stable under government control. Today people are concerned about energy prices, public tariffs. In criticizing the power to increase prices, the opposition is silent that it is the legacy of Prime Minister Timoshenko, the price of gas that has been delivered, and the agreements it has concluded with the IMF to increase tariffs on housing and utility services, which have forced us to engage in difficult negotiations with the Russian Federation. Waiting for a radical improvement of the situation is too early. There are too many problems. A large part of budgeted and employed abroad is spent, not on development, but on the payment of external and domestic debt under the obligations of the previous Government. Of course, the recovery achieved is not enough to solve all existing problems. And only after the planned reforms will we be able to fully fill the budget, move away from the need to make it available to the Pension Fund will this money be directed towards other purposes, including addressing social problems of society. We realize that in no country of the world, profound reforms have been painless. But we do not tell people sweet stories, but to be honest, to live in abundance, the whole country will have to work hard. In doing so, all social compensators are used by the authorities to protect the living standards of the least deprived. And leaders who have destroyed the country's economy must and will be responsible for their actions in strict compliance with the law, as well as those who are still in power today, but cannot cope with its temptation on their own. Dear colleagues! The President is actively seeking not only investors but reliable and permanent partners of Ukraine in the world. Political stability in our country has allowed for a renewed constructive relationship with Russia, a renewed confidence in us by the United States of America, the European Union. A recent state visit to China opened an unprecedented page in relations with one of the leaders of the modern world. The value of the agreements signed during the visit amounted to at least $4 billion. Dear colleagues, the Stability and Reform Coalition and the Party of the Regions have worked effectively during the sixth session of the Supreme Council, and this must be maintained from the first days of the new session. And we call on all the deputies to its work. I call on you to mobilize efforts and provide legislative support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u12	The President is strongly committed to the conduct of which the people of Ukraine are awaiting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u13	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, head of the Communist faction. He'll be followed by Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The very difficult tasks facing our country today require the enormous, concerted efforts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the parliamentary coalition, the government, all the authorities. This is the result of the Company’s faction in identifying the main problems that need to be addressed urgently during today’s session. The company was involved, not in conjunctural or narrow - party thinking, but in serious intentions to do everything possible to deal with the consequences of the deep economic crisis, the destructive five - year reign of orange power as soon as possible. Our faction is set up for construction, constructive work. We're not going away from this. The most important and important task is to see how to stabilize the situation in the economic, social sphere with the least losses for our citizens, especially for the least socially protected groups of the population, how to protect Ukraine's national interests. We pay particular attention: firstly, to prevent the increase in prices and tariffs on residential services consumed by natural gas and electricity, with a view to preventing them from increasing their debt from paying off salaries, scholarships and financial security for students, students and students; secondly, to prevent the increase in prices for bread, grains, other food products, first-hand supplies, medicines and medical supplies. In particular, we consider it necessary to consider immediately the issue of banning export abroad until it is fully secured by the State, the grain, is meant. We, the Company's faction, have brought the relevant documents to Parliament's attention. Thirdly, make serious changes to tax legislation, restore a progressive scale of income taxation, set taxes on luxury goods and real estate for rich people. It's about tax breaks for small and medium-sized businesses, and it's about helping those who are opening up their businesses today to work in our country, and it's about protecting the internal-economic space from the expansion of the products of a foreign producer. Fourthly, to protect the individuals of investors who have suffered from bank speculation in foreign exchange and credit markets, in particular to immediately prohibit banks in the legislative order from taking housing, cars and other assets into account for the repayment of loans and interest. We have also prepared appropriate projects, and they have long been under review in the Supreme Council. We are convinced of the need for conservation and ownership of the entire Ukrainian people of agricultural land, the basic sectors of the national economy, the support of the strategic most important enterprises of the real sector of the economy. Unfortunately, not all the bills that we have tabled have been supported in the previous session, but we suggest that we turn to them, return to their consideration, and seek their adoption. The preparation and adoption of the budget next year depends to a large extent on whether or not we can figure it out, and for example, in the Sumska region, there are 70 wells of gas that are unaccounted for and that work for a powerful capital. Among the other problems that we need are, in our view, the urgent legislative arrangement that we would like to call this: a merger of all veteran organizations to improve social protection and adoption with this purpose of the draft law on the organization of Ukrainian veterans. The time has come to unite our parents and mothers around the idea that will truly provide the future for our young ones. The introduction of the honorary title of Ukraine, the City of Military Glory, so that today, indeed, the heroic path that our people have passed, especially in the years of the Great Homeland War, will set an example for the patriotic upbringing of our young people, not the training of traitors on the example of banditry and others. Increasing criminal responsibility for abuse of the memory of Soviet liberators, enacting a new language law to address acute problems in this very sensitive area. We would like this process to be known by our people and in subsequent elections to local governments and to express our attitude toward our position. We also invite our colleagues to make a decision and insist that the Attorney General's Office investigate as soon as possible where nine billion dollars have disappeared since the implementation of the ‘Criminals’, which must have been directed towards the return of savings to our citizens. We also need to investigate today all the facts that are corrupt and thieving, especially when it comes to stealing the government's budget and destroying the economic potential of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, head of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, followed by Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u16	Dear Head, honourable voters, greeting you all with the start of a new session, and that means a new political season, you are taking an inexorable view of the calendar, and the time is running out, soon after the end of the year. What were the hopes and expectations at his beginning? Regrettably, everything is still going to the expected conclusion: lost opportunities, starting with the rights and freedoms of people who have not been released to the Supreme Council today, the oppression of the Ukrainian spirit of history. Without bitterness and prejudice, let us be frank: Both errors and calculations have accumulated too much. Many discussions revolve around radical reforms. There's a lot of loud talk, but what's on the way out? With such a concentration of power, unique possibilities, obedient verticals, and automatic coalitions, time has already been lost. Tax changes can't even be called close-up, rather, cosmetic repairs of the old and burdensome one we've had a long time ago. And the tax burden for most people will be greater. There's deposits, and square meters, and simplifieds, and so on and so forth. These are millions of fellow countrymen who would like their own work to create wealth and prosperity in their family, to become a middle class, but under such conditions they will not become. That's why we're against this tax code, and instead, we're clearly proposing in our draft law that we do introduce five-year real, not a sticky tax vacation for a small business for millions of people. Reforms in the JRC and in the gas field have taken over and have simply placed an insurmountable burden on the shoulders of the people, especially the villagers, who suffered five times during these months of new power. At first, they voted for the agriculture budget, and then they circumcised it. Today, the grain has stopped moving and is stifling with prices. Household damage can reach 15 billion dollars, and the fine is not worth $2 billion. And with the village gas in general, it's a history of geography. The price difference for different gardens is almost four times. You live in a hut in 1861 -- one price; you build a decent house for yourself and your son -- you pay $350 per thousand meters per year, and the next year you pay over $500. This forces the peasant to move to the ground floor, to the summer kitchen, to the auxiliaries, or to cut the forest floor. Where, then, is the cheap Ukrainian gas, which in our time went exclusively to the countryside and for the household needs of city dwellers? But that is not all. If a farmer holds a livestock in his household, he too has a lot to pay for. In addition, the difference in the price of nutrients between different gardens is also four times. The classic once wrote, "The horses aren't guilty," but you don't want to, but for a cow in a month, some people have to pay about 600 bucks. Agrarians are saddened that the slaughter of an active herd has recently taken on the magnitude of a natural disaster. “Not in the daytime, but in time” is said to increase the price of milk and its processing products, and not only. But after such decisions, you can no longer worry. As they say, don't waste your energy, best man. Our faction is deeply convinced that such wild errors must be corrected immediately. That is why we now propose a moratorium on the price of gas for the population. Figure it out, figure it out, and then just figure it out, especially for peasants, you don't need to raise energy prices, you need to lower energy prices. He's holding the cow's owner - he pays 30 percent less for gas than he did, two cows half less and so on. In two or three years, and we'll see, and we'll feel, without any programs, without administrative scales, without budget costs, without corruption, and no swelling. Where the head will be taken and the milk will follow. The same can be true of meat, vegetables, fruit, potatoes. An even greater effect can be derived from a flexible pension policy in the countryside. Without a job there are mostly women, and in a supportive household there are also women. The score goes to millions of people. Instead of increasing their retirement age as proposed, let us improve pension insurance, namely, selling peasants in an organized market, such as a ton of milk or a certain amount of meat or vegetables, fruits, potatoes, not just get a year into work, but also the right to an increased pension. And let's say the size depends on the quantity that's grown and sold. The cost of the state is zero, and in 2-3 years you can really get rid of imports of meat, milk, and vegetables. That's why we're also proposing to set up a moratorium on increasing the retirement age for our women right now. Not in time are these dragonlike measures, there are other, more efficient and beneficial states and people approach. All of this has been laid down in appropriate draft laws, which, by goodwill, most can be considered immediately and made up to the people’s expected decisions. Let us not forget, colleagues, that in such matters the Supreme Council, as the living classics say, does not depend on who and always the rights. Thank you for your attention and hope for both wisdom and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u17	The word is Oleg Zarubinsky, the faction of the Lithuanian Block. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u18	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today not only opens the parliamentary session but is the beginning of the entire parliamentary year, which almost coincides with the academic year in all the educational institutions of our country. Perhaps that is why many of our colleagues, when they meet after summer, greet each other with the start of the school year. In our view, it should not be as educational for all of us as it is instructive. Teachable for many reasons. And because the same rakes are not even two, but many times, they bear witness at all, not to perseverance and purpose, but to something else. In the sense that the famous formula “process is everything, and the result is nothing” has long compromised itself, because in the process our country is constantly getting results from others, including our neighbours. And the question here is not fundamentally different from the objectives of the influential political and state-building actors. A stated and public goal is one for all. Please tell me, who in this room or beyond may be opposed to achieving such a goal as a just society of general well-being? Nobody. Any normal person supports that. And the serious question is exactly how to achieve this just society of general well-being. And here the possible options for Ukraine’s development can be compared to that of the fifth floor of the building. On the wall, on the stairs, or on the elevator, three can be accomplished. And most of the strategies that are unfortunately being proposed today are absolutely populist -- waiting for the elevator to be built. This is also true of a building where the technical characteristics of this elevator do not allow it at all, i.e. it is the distribution of empty, empty, because unfulfilled promises, without deadlines, without specifying the available resources and, above all, with a constant search for the culprits of construction. In radical circles, it is suggested that you climb the wall. I said, if it's in a straight line, that's faster. But once again, it is not considered that the direction of movement is up, and here are the insurance guarantees. There is another option, but it is not a method of achieving the goal. It's going down to the basement, where we can't see where we are or how many floors we need to go. Politically, it is the creation of an information vacuum that shows neither its real position nor its neighbours. And even if it's even bigger, it's not. And again, unfortunately, a lot of our citizens agree with this: It's always easier to go down than it is to go up. The people's party comes from the fact that you can climb the stairs, no matter how hard it is. Yes, every step is an effort, but the effort is based on moving forward, towards the goal. If we're only on the second floor in an hour or tomorrow, we'll still be higher than we'd be waiting for an elevator. Thus, in our mind, what is in successful countries, and what has been missing for many years is a science-based, deep, realistic new strategy for Ukraine, we see as a multi-stage program that requires serious efforts to increase the well-being of the population, the efforts of both the state and the society and the citizens themselves. As a result, we propose that social pragmatism be promoted by generalizing a new vision of development, a new state strategy. Accordingly, only by pragmatic steps can Ukraine evolve into a state of justice and prosperity. However, every innovation that affects society’s interests is implemented only when it is explained and proved necessary. Social pragmatism is a movement with well-founded and understandable goals and mechanisms. In that case, Parliament will be able to offer to Ukrainian citizens, voters, and, in fact, its employers a new product that would be qualitatively different from those already experienced on all sides of the populist promise. I emphasize that clean and quality products are not modified by any harmful organisms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Mikola Martinenko, head of the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Dear guests and representatives of the media! The new session of the Supreme Council is taking place in a difficult political and economic situation. First, a few words about the work plan. Our faction proposes to include everyone in the agenda of the day without exception registered bills, as was the case at the beginning of the last session. It calls on all factions to support this, not to divide the projects into right and wrong. Then let the Supreme Council give them an assessment of their vote. The main thing is not to ignore parliamentary initiatives, as is unfortunately the case with many legislative proposals from our faction. For example, this week, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” proposed nine bills for the draft agenda and none passed. This creates a closed circle: for a year some parliamentary committees have refused to consider draft laws from our deputies and, as a result, they are not included in the agenda. For example, changes to the Criminal Code to increase liability for failure to execute a court decision. Since November 2009, they have been awaiting their consideration at the Committee on Justice in the Sessional Hall, where the drafters of the bill are all MPs without excluding factions. Or a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Criminal Code to increase responsibility for official crimes. But not only is it that part of the bill is ignored, even if it is relevant and socially significant, but the main problem in the work of the Supreme Council is that the foundation of parliamentaryism is levelled: regulatory procedures for decision-making, committee discussions, first and second readings. As a result, the country’s vast economic and political laws are either raw or simply harmful — from an unrealistic budget to a draft tax code approved in the first reading. Or we can refer to the Law on Local Elections, which still had to be reworked. The main issue in the near future is, of course, the Tax Code, which we will be hearing about today. There are many things that make life easier for business and for the economy as a whole. I hope that when it comes to Parliament, it will not come to the same rakes. You can't let everything be put on your head again in the end. There is only one recipe: The Tax Code should be approved with a clear and full compliance with all regulatory procedures, quite five years in three years. I will remind you that a week ago, under a reduced procedure, there were quick amendments to the Local Elections Act, but the law was still unproven to a normal legislative condition. Only a few scandalous moments were successfully removed: they said "a", but did not say "b", "v" and "g". For example, it is not clear how to form election committees from parliamentary factions, that is, from blocks of parliamentary factions formed by several parties. Is this supposed to be a consensus, or is it going to be every party that's included in this faction? You can pick up the transcript from the extracurricular session on August 30, an amendment was made to the head of the “Parties of the Regions” group, Alexander Efraemova: three people from each faction, which consists of several parties. But in the end the terrarians will form quite differently, because they have remained unchanged by other provisions of the law, such as part three, which provides for the right of each party that is part of the bloc to submit three candidatures. As well as the right of the Central Electoral Commission to its own discretion to elect up to 15 candidates as terrarians of the number proposed by the parliamentary parties. All of this testifies to the low quality of legislative work. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council should work in clear compliance with the Rules, only then will the decisions of the highest legislative body be truly quality and in the interests of the whole society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Chaplain, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u22	Dear national MPs, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I have the honour to announce an application for the establishment of an inter-fractional parliamentary group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine “Reforms for the Future”. The initiators of the establishment of such an interfractional MP were 17 Ukrainian national deputies. The goal of creating a parliamentary group is to work fully and support fundamental reforms in all areas of the political, economic and social life of Ukraine. We have a personal approach to the future development of the state, and we are ready to work in a very broad partnership and coordination with factions that are part of the coalition that are represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because success in such a difficult matter as replacing old order with new ones can only be achieved through understanding, not confrontation. We have a political position and potential for constitutional, legal, representational and rapid, consistent and effective reforms aimed at overcoming the consequences of the crisis, which has been a devastating wave in our country, restoring socio-economic stability, ensuring the progressive development of Ukraine and a decent standard of living for its citizens. This is reported by our voters, the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, political parties, public organizations and the entire Ukrainian people. I stress in particular that the parliamentary group “Reforms for the Future” is a democratic organization set up on the principles of self-government and open to the accession of Ukraine's other national deputies to achieve the goal of Ukraine's prosperity. Authorized to declare that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u23	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u24	Authorized to state that the co-ordinator of the interfractional parliamentary group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been selected as the non-fractional deputy, Igor Ribakov, the first deputy coordinator of the national deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Kaplienka, the deputy head, the national deputy of Ukraine, Vitalia Kurila. Valerius Kamchatny, secretary of the MP group, was elected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. On the basis of your suggestions, we will implement as much as possible in the course of our work. The only one here was Mikola Volodymyrovich who had claims that were not included in the agenda. In fact, not included, but, you remember, yesterday at the Conciliation Board, the Chief of the Supreme Council asked the faction leaders to submit their proposals by 16 p.m. yesterday. The proposals from the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” arrived on 07.09.2010, at 09.14 minutes they are registered, i.e. be a little more disciplined. That's one thing. And secondly, dear colleagues, we will now consider the agenda. It doesn't mean that what's written is forever and we won't change anything. This is one moment. And second of all, you know, in the course of the session we're constantly in the agenda, we're going to include some additional questions. And most importantly, when the agenda is formed, sorry, faction leaders, we take into account the position of the committees. Because the head of the faction wants a question to be considered, but it's included when they've been properly prepared through the committees, and that's why there are certain moments here. And now, honourable colleagues, two factions -- the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" and the BUT faction -- are asking to announce a recess for consultations. [[30 minutes]] I'll call it an 11-hour break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u26	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one minute. Just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, during the break, we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council, agreed on this: first, we will immediately bring the session room to work; then we will consider the approval of the agenda; then we will consider the second issue of the Tax Code. Then we'll consider a moratorium on housing-communal tariffs. And in order to continue our construction, which we have demonstrated this morning, no matter what the outcome of the debate will be, we will continue to consider draft bills that are scheduled for Tuesday. Is such an offer accepted? In view of the fact that two factions required a break under the Rules, they have the right to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine what they needed a break for. Oleg Lazko has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, BUT, “Fatherhood” party. First of all, I'd like to draw the public's attention to the fact that there's a blocked premises in the Supreme Council. I appeal to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, to the Head of the Supreme Council to give a command to the Minister of Internal Affairs to lift the blockade of the Supreme Council. Thousands of people who have come to Kiev today to express their disagreement with the present - day authorities in accordance with the Constitution have been deprived of such opportunities. A party of regions has the possibility of their tents right next to Parliament exhibited. Representatives of other opposition forces have been deprived. People's deputies from the opposition can't go to the walls of parliament, because the police are checking the certificates, and if they don't pass from the opposition to parliament. Do we have a police state? Is this today the beginning of the political season and the demonstration of power? That's the first one. The other one. We insist on a first-line review of draft laws that concern millions of people. First. A moratorium on gas prices. Moratorium for higher rates for residential services. Third. A moratorium on retirement. The president of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, has just been speaking and tells us that the purpose of today's government is reform. First of all, economic reforms. That's right, that's what the country needs. But not at the expense of millions of people! Today’s authorities have been distracted, millions of slogans throughout the country “We Are Building a New Country! ” For whom is this new country, and by whom? At the expense of millions of workers? Millions of pensioners, millions of peasants? For the oligarchs sitting here in the hall?Oh, my God! For those officials who call the opposition "so-called"? The so - called government is calling the opposition. That's constructive? Is this the dialogue that President Yanukovic called for?Oh, my God! We demand that there are no priorities for the country today than the opposition demands. Instead, what do we see in the order of the day? God knows what! Besides, millions of people are in pain. Go to the people who act against authority who are hopelessly distant from the people and listen to what people say. They have nothing to support the family for, since food is valued from day to day in your reforms. They have nothing to pay for utilities. They have nothing to send their children to school for. Because they'll save a penny for gas and heating. They have no place to work. And you're retiring. This is what the Supreme Council should consider if it is a parliament of Ukraine, not a parliament for oligarchs, to serve an active authority. With such reforms, honourable rulers, you will not last long. And you won't be able to shut up from the people by the borders of the militia. Because tomorrow they're going to go out with the hooks, with the axes -- no police, no one's going to stop when you bring people in! Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u28	Thank you. Thank you. Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u29	We suggest that we do not prove people, not bring them out with pitchforks, with axes, but here, in the hall, adopt laws to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I have found a compromise. So I'd like to ask my fellow national MPs, because we've agreed with you how we're going to work, turn our posters and get to work so that we can make decisions. Let's just do the deal that we've reached the last time. Please, dear fellows. While the posters are being taken off, I'm announcing the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please invite the deputies to the session room. As the MPs enter, I ask the secretariat to verify the information of the national deputy, Oleg Láška, on blocking the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to ensure the democratic functioning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let them check it out. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to check in, to do whatever needs to be done. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's House, on the draft agenda for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has generalized all proposals from committees and factions. Yesterday's draft agenda for the seventh session was discussed at the Conciliation Council, and we agreed that I would put to the vote the issue of the adoption of the agenda for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which includes all the bills currently registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will be the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If my proposal is not supported, I'm going to put a draft agenda to the vote without any plugins, and then we're all going to vote in turn. No warning? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Supreme Council decree on the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its entirety, including all additions. [[Registration number 7090]] [[11:41:02]] For-160. They didn't. I now put to the vote a motion for approval of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the sixth non-additional call. Please vote. [[11:41:34]] For 346 Decision taken. Now I'm betting on voting in additions. The proposal for Appendix 1 is a list of the bills that the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have concluded on their previous consideration and have proposed not to include in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth vocation for various reasons, including the fact that the bills proposed for consideration are already partially taken into account in those decisions previously taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of Appendix 1. I put it to a vote, I didn't take it, so I can do it. [[11:42:26]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, Appendix 2 is a list of bills that have been removed from the draft agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of individual MPs. I'll bet the vote on Appendix 2. It contains five bills on page 108. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:08]] For -6 Not accepted. Now the last one. Dear colleagues, this is a list of bills that are proposed to be added to the agenda of the seventh session because they arrived at 16th hour on 6th September 2010. These are a number of bills that were submitted on the last day by the Ukrainian National Deputies from various factions. I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, they don't have political pressure, so let's put them in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:43:59]] For 348 The decision is made, so we've approved a day-to-day procedure with certain deletions. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the question: Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 08.07.2010 No. 2454-VI on the National Discussion of the Draft Tax Code of Ukraine. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksijovich. Dear colleagues, the Rules set out a procedure for hearing information. At the same time, the Conciliation Council proposes to accept such. This is the procedure for dealing with the issue. The Minister of Finance asks 10 minutes for information, 10 minutes for answers to questions. Since the committee had not considered it, the documents did not come to the committee, rather than make a statement from the committee, but to give the right to speak from factions to three minutes each. I propose to put this proposal to the vote. Please vote. The authors of the decrees will be given a separate right. [[11:45:29]] For-286 Decision taken. And of course, dear colleagues, we have a number of decisions on this issue. The authors will be able to justify them within three minutes. Feder Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished present, I present to you today information on the outcome of the discussion of the draft Ukrainian Tax Code, which was organized by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine for the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 8 July this year, issue 2454 “On the Public Discussion of the Draft Tax Code of Ukraine”. A draft prepared for the second reading by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy was issued for the public discussion. Lead scientific institutions, public organizations, were involved in the organization and discussion. The national deputies of Ukraine, ministers of Ukraine, took an active part in the discussion. During the discussion, the Cabinet of Ministers followed the following principles: openness – the maximum possible number of participants would be included in the discussion; accessibility – each person was provided with both free access to the text of the project under discussion and the opportunity to express its opinion and to give the organizers the most convenient opportunity to discuss it in such a way, including the possibility of offering proposals without disclosing information about the author, this would remove any concerns of the participants about the possibility of administrative impact on them; objectivity – each proposal was carefully studied by scientific experts and, together with a comment to it, was expressed in the general table of proposals. The organizers of the discussion did not impose any restrictions on the reflection of the proposals in the general outcome of the public discussion. For the purpose of involving the broadest circles of Ukrainian society in the discussion of the draft Tax Code, the text of the draft was published in the newspaper Government Courier, as well as posted electronically on the website of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the State Tax Service of Ukraine and the State Customs Service of Ukraine. The acceptance of project proposals was made in writing, as well as through the Minfin Internet Forums and the Ukrainian State Tax Service, and organized by Minfin, DPA and the U.S. Customs Service. There was an interactive discussion of the project on the Internet fora. In addition, with a view to properly informing society about the substance of the rules set out in the draft Tax Code for an expanded discussion of the future tax system, the draft Tax Code in the form of round tables in the cities of Kiev, Kharkiv, Donetsk, Simferopol, Lviv was organized. The discussion process was broadcast by central and local television channels, press conferences were held, thematic interviews were given to the media. At the same time, a sociological study was conducted among tax payers on the draft Tax Code as a whole and its basic provisions. The results of the research are convincing, and society supports tax reform and considers it a necessary step. Regardless of the relatively uncomfortable time of discussion, the summer vacation season reached 4,075 offers. This unprecedented action for Ukraine allows Ukraine, when preparing and adopting the Tax Code, to comply with the requirements expressed directly by the people of Ukraine, who are the only source of power in our country. The tax code is called upon to become the legal basis for tax reform in Ukraine in the interests of the entire Ukrainian people and with the people, as foreseen by President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic of Ukraine. The national discussion of the draft Tax Code is a worthy answer for those who have tried to make the project a subject of political speculation in their own interests. From now on, the Tax Code is not a project of which separate political power or even coalitions is a national project based on the opinion and position of society. As a result of a national discussion with the results of the evaluation of the scientific and expert community by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, systematic proposals were prepared for the draft Ukrainian Tax Code, to be considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Designed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to fully introduce the draft Tax Code in accordance with the requirements of society that will be officially addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm going to present their basic positions. Small, medium-sized business. For a small, medium-sized business, a new model of a simplified tax system is proposed. The amount of proceeds from the sale of goods, jobs, and services for the application of the simplified tax system will be up to 300,000 dollars a year. Simultaneously, simplified accounting rules will be introduced, and a special tax charge for single taxpayers will be abolished altogether. This will allow you to turn a small, medium-sized business tax system into a real incentive for business development, provide for anyone who wants to start a business that is conducive to start a business. A small, medium-sized business that will use a general tax system with annual incomes of up to 3 million dollars, getting a profit tax of about 5 years. This is also in line with the requirements of the public discussion. There will be targeted tax support for sectors of the economy that are capable of rapidly increasing production volumes and creating new jobs. For the next 10 years, a zero income tax will be introduced for light industry and household. At the same time, the government is studying how to support aircraft, shipbuilding, domestic engineering, and a number of other economic activities. According to the results of the national discussion, the vast majority of its participants held that fairness in taxation should be one of the basic principles of the updated tax system. The government’s proposals to the draft Tax Code allow for the full implementation of the principle of tax fairness in tax legislation. Two per capita income tax rates are foreseen for individuals who receive incomes of up to 10 minimum wages and 17 per cent for those who receive incomes higher than that amount. There will also be a 5 - percent tax on deposit income, but only for those whose deposits exceed 200,000 dollars. This will ensure a fair approach to the redistribution of income: the one who receives more is paying higher taxes. The same approach is suggested to apply to the taxation of immovable property. It is suggested that the property tax exceeds 100 square feet [100 sq m] per family in the city and 200 square feet [200 sq m] in the rural area. The rate of tax on an area that exceeds this size is 10 bracelets per square metre. Many of the proposals received during the public discussion were aimed at overall improvements in the conditions of economic activity and the payment of taxes. President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine's pre-election program also predicts that none. The priorities for the state and authority are to create favourable conditions for business development. The measures needed to improve the business climate have become one of the main topics of discussion in the international debate. According to the results, a number of proposals have been made to improve the conditions for the implementation of economic activity – this is the introduction of the principle of the presumption of the rightfulness of the decisions of taxpayers, in accordance with this principle any decision of the taxpayer is deemed to be legitimate until it is wronged in the law. Norms that rely on a tax payer cannot have a reverse effect in time. Approaching tax and accounting rules to tax the profits of businesses will allow businesses to cut administrative costs. In addition, it allows taxes to be brought closer to the economic essence of economic activity, making tax standards more appropriate to the needs of taxpayers. The reduction in basic government taxes will allow additional financial resources to be channelled into the economy. According to the corporate income tax, the decrease goes to 16 percent, and the value added tax goes to 17 out of 1 January 2014. Tax cuts, tax exemptions from various sectors of the economy and individual types of operations provide an increase in wages and social benefits to citizens due to the release of enterprise funds, the creation of a financial sector for the modernization of production, the transition of the economy to a new type. A huge-scale problem that poses a threat. The collapse of the sector's national economy has become an untimely compensation for VAT. To solve this problem, and now forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u32	Allow me to complete the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u33	In addition, pennies will be credited to the entire budget debt, and VAT will be reimbursed at 120 percent of the NCB’s account rate. Thus, it is suggested that the principle of mutual responsibility of the State and taxpayers be implemented. I want to point out that at the time that Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic headed the government in 2003-2004, automatic VAT compensation was ensured, and the size. the repayment debt has been reduced to zero. So this is a completely real task for doing it under the conditions of creating a proper administration system. I must admit that tax administration has become one of the most painful subjects in the international discussion of the draft Tax Code. The current tax administration system does not provide two of its main tasks: to protect the legitimate interests of conscientious taxpayers and to ensure transparency in the work of the supervisory authorities. In the draft Tax Code, which will be submitted, this topic will be settled. The Cabinet of Ministers fully shares the opinion of experts and prepares appropriate proposals, they will enable you to build a customer-oriented administration system that will provide and protect taxpayers, and also provide transparency in the functioning of tax authorities. The results of the public discussion allow for a qualitative improvement in the draft Tax Code, making it a truly effective normative act, which will ensure the performance of the tasks assigned to society by the public authorities. But the main outcome of the nationwide discussion is now that society has supported the Tax Code as a tool for tax reform. In fact, no proposal has been made against the Tax Code as the main regulatory instrument that will form the basis for building Ukraine’s new national tax system. In general, the social principle of building a project is a positive one. All of this shows that the Ukrainian Tax Code, it's not just another normative act, it's a socially significant project that the people of Ukraine are demanding today, and this gives us reason why we need to consider, accept and adopt this Tax Code in the Supreme Council. This task comes before the government today, President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, and this task is being put before the government today by the entire Ukrainian people, and this task has to be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u34	Thank you, Fedor Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the information to your knowledge has been verified, please register with the National MPs for a question to the Minister. It's a recording. Please put your names on the information board. Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u35	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, in your presentation, you have finally acknowledged the complete and total mistrust of citizens in the administration system. But I don't understand what kind of public proposals you've decided to narrow down and essentially narrow down the simplified system of taxation, which, according to our estimates, is exactly one of the leaders of wish-making in public discussion that needs to be preserved and expanded, because it saves just from corrupt administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u36	Thank you, an extremely interesting question and a very intense discussion was being held on this subject, and as a result of the regional discussions that we were having, where all the practical organizations and the expert evaluation were involved and the experts were also offered such a proposal that I gave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u37	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u38	Please tell me, who in these public discussions did make the offer, or supported it, to tax the income, and the income from the deposit, that's the first. And from what period do you plan to introduce this standard? Because you know that by anti-crisis laws, others we've determined that we're not raising this issue by 2013. As I listened to the discussion, I only heard from officials that officials wanted to bet people. So I would like to remind these officials that in those countries where interest rates are available, the country on the other hand makes commitments, guarantees a 100 - percent return in the event of a bank’s bankruptcy of between 50,000 and 250,000 euros. In these lands such a payment requirement really exists. We have, you know, guaranteed up to 15,000 euros, hypothetically, taking into account the fullness of the Deposit Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u39	Thank you. Such a request was made in many different circles of society. I want to tell you that bankers have also supported this proposal. But what I want to point out is that you've all come to realize that this tax is going to be paid by those people who have this kind of income. And 95 percent of the population doesn't have such deposits, and they won't be taxed on dividends. The guarantees all of us have in our legislative regulations, that's all taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u40	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u41	Pavel Žebrovsky, “Ukrainian Platform”. Feder Alexiyovich, well, whether or not to carry out tax reform. You're definitely going to get what you need to conduct, and here you're right. But on the other hand, I spent about 10 round tables on the tax code. No entrepreneur said that he was set up by a section that prescribes tax administration. And unless the taxpayers supported this particular block in the Tax Code. None, I emphasize, none, and these were very many people actually. And today, when it comes to the fact that a public discussion legitimizes this Tax Code, and you do not amend it, you do not actually copy the chapter in administration, you are, in a mild sense, deviant. Are you actually going to rewrite this block completely in a new way, and it's going to be fiscal because we're going to turn this chapter into a fiscal country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u42	Thank you. We've already rewrote, I'll tell you, that's what was on the first reading already. The innovations that we're introducing, the innovations that we're introducing, they just rule out the proposals that were on the first reading. So I've already given you this information that just putting in place a new tax administration system will allow, firstly, to protect virtuous taxpayers and, secondly, to make the Ukrainian Tax Service more transparent. In the process of discussion, I also took an active part and was with me personally, taking part in the head of the Ukrainian Tax Service, where he also became convinced that he did not absolutely need any further authorization to increase the terms of the checks, there, there. and so on. So what you said is it's already going to be installed in a new system that will allow us to do such important things that we've been trying to do for 19 years, but I think we're going to do it in the new Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u43	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction “Bloku Timoshenko”. Ivan Grigorovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u44	Your word. Tomenku's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u45	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Feder Alexiyovich, I'd like to make this very clear. You see, on page 9 it's about experts and developers finding that society is not prepared to give the control body additional powers and recommend that the current rights of control authorities be preserved based on existing legislation. So it looks like what the Tax Code was talking about, about, in fact, the creation of a new structure and the over-authorization of tax institutions, is not supported. Here's a question. Do you consider it necessary to order those people in the Tax Administration who have actually run the Tax Code around the circle? Because of the over-authorization of tax institutions, we've all debated almost six months whether we should give these powers or not, and we haven't really debated tax reform. Now we're going back to static. Today, the Supreme Council is voting against the previous decision. The tax code will cancel the old version and Kabmin will actually start preparing for the new tax code. So we've lost six months in tax reform, obviously someone will be responsible. I think we've gone the wrong way for six months for one simple reason, because the tax administration wanted too much control. And that's how we got back from where we started. So the first question. Will the tax collectors who were led by the government and parliament be held accountable? And the second might be a recommendation. After all, someone has to be responsible for what's going on. Even you've given these materials, it's not signed here by who's been preparing them. And there are experts with photographs, there are no photographs, there are better experts, and there are worse photographs, or better, there are worse experts. Tell me from today, for example, whether it's the First Vice Prime Minister, or the Deputy Prime Minister, or someone who's responsible for the Tax Code. Because there was a paradox: the whole society was discussing the Tax Code and no one knew what it was talking about. So today we need to put a stop to this and start working on the only government bill. And it's clear that the tax code is not written for taxpayers, and the tax code is not written for entrepreneurs, the tax code is written for entrepreneurs, and the government for society and for the country. Then the tax code will be effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. We'll take your offer into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u47	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u48	Thank you. Feder Alexiyovich, it is very good that after this discussion there was a decision that only those that are large deposits could be taxed from deposits. This result is more or less normal. What, though, is the outcome of the discussion that unfolded from the point of view of the real estate tax? Yesterday, in an interview with one of the central channels, Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov said that it was 5 bracelets per metre, as if excessive. Although it is highly questionable whether it is superfluous or not, you know, it is a subjective concept. You said 10 bucks today. And I asked you to explain the logic. A person who buys or builds housing pays three taxes. Once on a salary, twice on a brick, three times on the builders who do it. Perhaps it is better to make sure that this tax is taken from those to whom the State gives free apartments, houses, and so forth? And second moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u49	Finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u50	It may be logical that when a person bought a house or an apartment, he immediately paid a tax of 5, 7, 8 percent. Then she'll be counting, buying more or less. It makes sense. Where does it make sense to tie a person up, three times to pay a tax for life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u51	The logic in your, the problem is, it is. But there was also a very, very intense discussion on this issue. As far as bets are concerned. I want to say that Mikola Janović has been sounding 10 bracelets so many times. And I confirm what I'm presenting today, where the increased tax rate is going to be applied in a city over 100 square meters, in a rural area -- 200 square meters. And the bet is going to be 10 bucks per square meter. I think we're going to be in the middle of today. They're still working on the bill tomorrow. And please take part in the final decision. And we'll consider your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Time's up. Maybe the last one then, we have Schmel's Svetlana, a faction of Communists. Your question, please. And, Gordien, they knew where they were ending up. Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u53	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter! After taking a close look at the draft of this Tax Code, which has been discussed, let's all agree that fair taxation has not been achieved. People were still hoping that there would be more powerful shoulders to pay very, very rich people. And we see very narrowly here both in deposits and in housing, and other incomes are not even spoken of, so it's essentially a burden on people of average wealth. How will the Tax Code be improved in this direction? And the next. You know that many times people ask the question of whether they will be tax collectors, including their personal resources, to account for the wrongly done damage to businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u54	Done, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u55	Thank you. First of all, I've already stressed that a low-progress rate of taxation on the income of individuals, i.e. more than 10 tax minimums, will be applied at 17 percent. This is the answer to your question that those who receive more income will pay more income tax from citizens. And I also told you that the deposits that are in the population, the individuals will pay 5 percent, and the deposits are over 200,000. In addition, regarding administration. A customer-oriented system is being introduced, which will also be targeted at virtuous tax payers, who today work honestly and carry out their constitutional obligations, paying taxes on the scales established by law. And those who do not pay will benefit from more favorable things that will involve them in their taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u56	Thank you, Feder Alexiovich, sit down, please. Time's up. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Sergey Sass will be next. Teryohin, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u57	Dear National Deputies! Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. I'm just going to touch three of the new tax code. First. Well, clearly this power, this government is going to destroy the middle class. This is confirmed by all the postulates that have just been expressed as the minister of the economy. If the current government considers rich people who have a residential area of more than 100 meters, deposits in banks of 200,000 dollars, a house outside the city of 200 meters, and a salary above 10 minimums to be added to taxes, the government is conscious of the destruction of the middle class and the recognition that there can only be two classes in our country: a luppenized class of people who are underfunded, who need donations from the state that are entirely dependent on the state, and an oligarch class that is in charge of the coalition and also completely dependent on their actions. All the other people who have self-sustained themselves, who consider themselves free, because they have a certain average profit, will be destroyed by this Tax Code. Count the person who has 200,000 dollars on deposit gets a percent a month -- 1,000 dollars. This is considered to be a rich person who should share his income with the poor. So she has to give 50 more dollars out of the income she got. So the person who spent $25,000 on buying a car is still needed in a bank to get interest, now she's rich, she's got to be taxed on extra taxes. The second question is very important. What's all I'm saying is that he's going to be running a tax inspection? How many people should be involved to make almost 90 percent of the population subject to taxation? How's it going to work? If a person declares that he has a contribution in banks, over 100 square meters of flats, a residential house, and other things, it will all have to prove tax, record in a declaration, walk in tax, prove, file, and pay this money. What are we doing with our country? Half the people will pay taxes, half the people will control them. It's a typical fiscal state that's going to be completely dependent on putting the entire middle class of Ukraine. I would be very careful about the wealth plan set up by today’s government. It's a crumb of a poor state, and I want to pay special attention to it, and it's very dangerous to vote for such things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u58	Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin, faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u59	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a major question -- what are we talking about today? Is there anyone in your hands? At least some document, except for this presentation of what's not here today. We asked the Conciliation Council yesterday morning to give something to the national deputies to see and what it was all about. We are told that this is a public discussion of a document published in the “Governmental courier”. As head of the committee, I can tell you that published in the “Governmental courier” is a fake because the committee has sent a completely different text, more than 100 conceptual changes have been published, different from what has been sent from the Supreme Council. I mean, the so-called public discussion went on. a fake that someone published and didn't sign off on whose property it was. We're told that ministers discussed this project. They didn't even see him in their eyes! Please tell us who knows whether a special village tax system or today’s milk and meat system is being maintained. Some of us say that there is no such system, because the currency fund demanded it, others say, no, we'll keep it. It's a simplified system. Well, please tell us here that all entrepreneurs under the Tax Code and what's written there that no one's seen. In a simplified system, I remind you once again, from 500 million to 300,000. Why? To be a total taxpayer after 300,000. With all the cash machines and stuff. Consequences. We're told that we're introducing vacations for the simplifieds up to 300,000, they won't pay profit for five years. So they don't pay it today for five years, and they don't pay it at all if they have a simplified system. No, no profit. And we're told that it's such a feat that they won't have five years, and now they don't have that kind of profit at all. Deposits, 200,000, respectable friends, the problem is not in the amount of deposit taxation, but in the case of a border, the banking secret as a class disappears. Because one person might have two deposits of 200,000, or ten deposits. And in order for the taxpayers to check, it is necessary for banks to report all hundred percent of the total investors. Therefore, there is no bank secret in Ukraine. Let's say by profit this is a single song called accounting, what did they do in what was proposed? They increased the tax base by 1.5 times, reducing the tax rate by one percent. Here's a reduction in tax pressure. Where is the tax on luxury, dear friends? How much did we talk about him? We're told we're going to enter the real estate after a hundred and two hundred squares. You'd make a deal with Azarov. Because when Azarov speaks of forty-eight squares.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u61	And five bracelets, and you're talking about a hundred and two hundred and ten bracelets, you can read at least one document. But can I tell you that, as it is written, who will suffer most of all? The people are primarily in rural areas, since this goes to the family. And imagine a family of one man, for it is a family and a family with ten children, for it is a family, or three generations, that sit in the house, for it is three families. So let's at least understand what you're suggesting. Dividends remain a completely corrupt scheme for Cyprus. That's why we don't have to, we don't have to worry about our oligarches rising by two, we don't have to worry about two percent per cent of the tax. physical persons. Because now, because of the scheme, the parent companies in offshore don't pay taxes at all. We recently made this decision, well, not us, but you know who, went through the Supreme Council and it's completely reflected in the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u62	Yes, thank you, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u63	In the transport congregation. Literally 30 seconds. We're told they'll cancel it -- that's good. Okay? But then they will increase excise duties, but remember, today the transportation congregation does not pay for disabled people, veterans, rural technicians. What happens tomorrow? Everyone's going to pay for this increased excise duty, because there's no benefits, they're gone. And so on and so forth. The last thing I want to say is that in administration, it's completely different from the priority of the payer's interests. I mean, this is a principle that's declared today, but unfortunately, it's not used in practice, but it's in the law, it's being abolished. What should we do? Right, and then we suggested that we cancel the decision to first read this crap and correct it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, next will be Valentin Matviev, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! I think that you and I have developed an optimal option, an algorithm for the adoption of system documents in the form of a dialogue between the legislative and executive authorities, between the authorities and the public. And through a few iterations, we go to the philosophy of the law, which is adequate for today's economic realities. Indeed, a document adopted on first reading during the summer was severely criticized for its fiscal nature and for its failure to develop the business. And the discussions that took place in the areas in the regions were held at meetings with entrepreneurs with real sectors of the economy, allowing for radical changes in the philosophy of the bill itself. And today's bill, in my opinion. Today's bill, in my view, has a balance: on the one hand, the tax system should ensure budget entry and, on the other hand, it should open doors, business prospects, the perspective of the real economy. And in my opinion, it's practically a balance sheet document. Maybe a little more discussion, a little bit more work, but we'll get to that balance. I would like to say that the new bill has already reflected, practically, the full programme principles of the President's programme with which he has run for office and tax. This Tax Code is the softest among European countries. Most importantly, to a greater extent, the burden of taxation falls on more secure people, and the least secure people in this situation will experience a weakening of the tax press. Let's move on. This bill provides a powerful, I would say stimulating principle, a powerful incentive for the use of income for development: a income tax is fully released to modernize new technology. This is a very progressive norm, liberated from the light industry for 10 years, which allows us to take up the light industry so that our enterprises can compete in their foreign and foreign markets. The State assumes responsibility for the reimbursement of VAT. For the first time, automatic reparations are provided and, in addition, normal dialogue with business. The State undertakes to: in the event of a timely return, the penalty will be in favour of the economic operator. It is therefore proposed that the order we take on first reading be repealed. Give you a chance to work out for a few days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u66	Let us finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u67	It is therefore proposed that the decision on the first reading of the bill, which was adopted in the summer, be repealed, allowing the Government to work out a little while longer, having met once again with business and with representatives of the real sector and to bring it to Parliament for the first reading, so that we can go out to that point through the last of our ethers. The philosophy of the law, which I repeat again, will be an adequate economic reality that will ensure both budget income and open the way to business and the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u68	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction. Please, your word. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The broad discussion that unfolded in society after the adoption by the Supreme Council of the draft Tax Code in the first reading made it clear that such very important legal acts should not be prepared in haste, but in depth, thoroughly and well-founded. First of all, tax reform must take place in the interests of the people and of the entire Ukrainian people. That was the result of a faction of Communists, making proposals to the bill. Unfortunately, however, most of the proposals have been ignored and no alternative position has been presented by the Communist Party on important issues of taxation, as already presented by the Cabinet of Ministers for international discussion of the Tax Code. For example, given that the excessive income inequality of the population is an extremely powerful factor in corruption and criminalization of society, an obstacle to economic development and democratization, the faction proposed the restoration of a progressive tax scale of 13 to 25 percent of the population's income. Sadly, this has not been taken into account. The government is presented with a small progressive tax system of 15 per cent on incomes of up to 9,000 220 dollars, from 1 January 2011 and 17 per cent on income above that amount. In our view, differentiation is small and does not eliminate the existing disparities in the income of citizens. Taking into account the need to fill local budgets, the faction proposed that section 12 “Local taxes and assemblies” should be supplemented by the article “Tax on immovable property other than land”. This was supported at first, but when the draft Tax Code was introduced, a fixed property tax, or real estate, was removed from the first reading by the government. The proposed editorial proposal, which was and was put into public discussion, is also out of the question. The proposal to approximate the date of the introduction of taxation by means of means of transport, aircraft.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u70	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u71	Thank you. For vehicles — airplanes and helicopters — from 1 January 2014 to 1 January 2011 is also out of the question. Thus, the Communist faction calls on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to reconsider and consider our proposals when working on a new draft of the Tax Code. Because they are only in the interests of the people, only in the interests of the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u72	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u73	The Honourable Head, the Honorable Colleagues, the "Block of Lithuania" faction also took an active part in the work, the revision of the Tax Code, and dozens of proposals were made. And we insist, and we will continue to work, and we will demand that there be more clearly written questions about the taxation of the agricultural sector of Ukraine in particular in the matter of leaving the operating scheme, of preserving the tax system for the added cost of all processing enterprises. As in today’s tax on the added value of these businesses goes as a subsidy to the price of milk and meat. This is an essential support for the agricultural sector, and this moment will be insisted upon to be preserved. There is also a question of taxation for private farmers who own the land. It's one-man shops, it's farmers, it's small farms, and it's especially in their production. I was approached by villagers from Volina with such a letter and asked that the Tax Code clearly spelled out the points of taxation of the berries they collect in the forest and sell, mushrooms and so forth. It seems ridiculous, but it's a whole cataclysm! Today it's either a forest ticket or a business permit because it's a thousand and thousands of police officers. Today, it requires a serious improvement in the real estate tax, and it is the faction that insists on it. Why? Because it's not clearly stated what a real estate is: whether it's just a residential area, or whether it's a real estate that's on a peasant's property, especially, and there's locusts, and there's currents, and there's some kind of technical fixtures. Therefore, this requires clarity. And there's no clarity about taxing dividends either. I wish we didn't let the banks open up the secret of the deposit today and let the deposit be taxed on the meager costs that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u74	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u75	They're in people's accounts. 200,000 is small, let's put it that way. I think there are people who have saved their whole lives for their children, for their grandchildren, and today they have to share those costs, obviously this minimum amount will have to be increased. I support, and on behalf of the faction, I ask everyone to support the ruling made by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, which introduces into the regulatory field the review of the Tax Code by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. We have three draft rulings based on Kseniya Lapina, Yuri Carmazin and your humble servant. I'm asking Kseniya Lapin to put his point of view, then Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”! Dear colleagues, my determination is very simple and understandable. Admitting that the Ordinance on Voting for the Draft Tax Code had become invalid in the first reading. The arguments are also quite obvious. They come even from today’s presentation made by the Minister of Finance. First. The very public discussion that took place reminds us of some sad memories of Soviet times when they increased the cost of bread at the request of the workers. When, in fact, a simplified tax system narrows down. Extra taxes on small deposits. The property is laid, for example, somewhere in the far depths of the Žitomir district 200 square meters of the house – luxury is not, dear colleagues. This is quite different from 200 square feet [200 sq m], for example, near Kiev, somewhere in the district of Opuchiv. That's a big difference, the area is the same, and in one case it's a luxury, and in the other case it's not, and so on. All of this shows that no real discussion has yet taken place. On the one hand, it's like they published a project, and on the other hand, my friends, openness is not just a publication of a project, it's a procedure that takes into account proposals and observations. I can testify on a survey of those who participated in the discussion by entrepreneurs, 90 percent of their proposals simply weren't fixed. Well, if they were to say it in the air, and where they're to say it, they don't know it. Well, even from those proposals that have been fixed with great effort, you can already understand that they are fundamentally changing, conceptually changing the chapters of the Tax Code. As far as tax administration is concerned, even the Ministry of Finance has acknowledged this. As for other issues, I can testify that there are also profound changes. All of this leads to the fact that we can't look at this project on a regular basis in the second reading. Because if we change the concept, we have to look at it first, according to the Rules. Because first-reading voting is actually the adoption of the concept. So I am convinced that we are simply obliged to begin the process of considering a new document that will be presented by the government. And we're going to see if he's considered, if he's really balanced, if he meets the stated principles. So far it's just words, and we want to see the document. And then we're going to look at it from the first reading and we're going to give our suggestions before we work, not to any abstract statements or declarations. And finally, the last. Do you know how Ukraine is different from America? In America, Obama announced yesterday a plan to save the American economy. Do you know what question number one? Support for small business. And that's what the authorities say. And there's something about Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u78	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u79	They're just in power. Small business is forgotten. They're just coming into opposition -- everybody's saying that supporting small business is the only thing we can do for the people today. That's what I'm asking you to focus on. That's not a secondary question. A simplified tax system is one of the key issues of the Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u80	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please, about your draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we discussing with you now? Information from the government, how do we have it? It's in this kind of informational material. Who are they signed by government officials? Nothing. There's no signature from the government. And we can, according to the Constitution, consider only the proposals of the subject. The whole government is the subject. So all we're discussing today, the honourable leaders of Parliament, we're discussing something a little bit wrong. I'm not saying that there's 14 pages here that's all that's meaningful, and then there's extra materials from where. A quantitative analysis of the proposals in the chapter “The Source of Their Coming” from where proposals came from, from which regions and everything. It's not very solid. Although these are very attractive and many good and many of them I like, and many of the ideas that we've put up here have been suggested to you, it looks like we've heard them from the rostrum. But to form them, I agree with my colleague Vaschuk, you didn't write, or what is a breach of deposit secrecy, and now there's going to be a new panic, they're going to take money from the banks into those glass banks to hide. Whether it is still in real estate or not, the prime minister says one thing, the minister of finance another, there's a family, there's one person, there's 40 meters, there's 100 meters per family, and so on. I mean, it's such a painful question. What's this all about? About what real estate? They lived just meters or along with the balconies or the barns, with everything else. What's this about? We need to make this clear. So on September 2nd, I proposed to amend the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, yours, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a decision called “On the International Discussion of the Draft Tax Code of Ukraine”. It was also evident when we discussed that such items could not be recorded as recommending the government to accept the budget, to submit the budget on a new tax basis, and on the Budget Code. Clearly, this must be removed from the decree today. And I'm proposing in my ruling, let's write: return the draft Tax Code to the subject of the legislative initiative, once. Recommend that Kabmin develop and submit to the Supreme Council a draft State Budget Act, two. Change where to write it. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I, you will be the last to speak on my own project, I will allow myself to disagree with you. When you write that you're behind all the decisions that you've lost validity and so there's no nationwide or any kind of discussion, there's been no first reading. And there was only the destruction of society. I'm definitely against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u83	I'm pretty sure we're going to the construction site. Now I see serious, sober thoughts in the government about what is not supposed to be opposition, but opposition in some cities has been heard. And what's more, her opinion is transformed into these. But these are the ones you have to make the new concept that you've made. Put this new concept on first reading. And to do that, you have to give a clean field. Let's vote for my ruling, eliminate that first adoption order as a law, and reverse the ruling that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin proposed. And so we're going to give you the opportunity to introduce a new code into a new concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u84	Thank you. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! With regard to the draft regulation 6509-P3, which I propose. The essence of this project is for us to have information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation of 8 July 2010 on the public discussion of the draft Ukrainian Tax Code. The other one. In accordance with part two of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, to recognize that they have become invalid, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 17 June 2010 on the adoption as a basis of the draft Tax Code of Ukraine, and paragraph four of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order of 8 July 2010 on the Public Discussion of the Draft Tax Code. However, the draft Ukrainian Code of Tax Code, under registration number 6509, should be withdrawn. And to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a new draft of the Tax Code, taking into account the results of the national discussion. And so the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to consider this project, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in full procedure, taking into account what we need to do, taking into account what we do not need to submit to the draft Tax Code. And it's not about that, my dear fellows, that we're canceling our entire decision that we've taken with regard to the national discussion of this project, it's about paragraph four of this decision. And we think that the decision has fulfilled its role, although there are many criticisms about it. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote the rulings in order for them to come. Sergey Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u85	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Sas, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of Fatherland. I can't comment on the rulings of the People's Deputies of Leipzig and Karmazin, they're not handed down to us, but, as far as I'm concerned, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the draft decision you've made. There is a reference in the second paragraph to part two of article 48 of the Rules. Thus, according to this part, they may be recognized as having lost validity, laws, regulations, and other acts. It cannot be recognized that a certain provision of an act has become invalid, and some legislation has to be amended to that effect. There's part three, and it doesn't quite respond to the requirement of part one of the fourth paragraph of article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules, because after a certain act has been published for public discussion, it goes back to the Main Committee for second reading and to the Cabinet of Ministers. This should be taken into account. So the offer of such an order is to recognize that it has become invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u86	Allow me to complete the formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There is a suggestion that it should be recognized that the Supreme Council's adoption decision in the first reading has become invalid. And the next. “Make changes to paragraph 3. Amendments to the Supreme Council Order of 8 July 2009 No. 2454-4 on the national discussion of the draft code, introducing paragraph 4 in the following wording: “The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax Policy and Customs Policy of 15 is proposed to submit to the Supreme Council for review on a re-first reading, which has been assisted with the results of the public discussion of the draft Tax Code.” If the Cabinet of Ministers in this case wants to withdraw the genre to be clean, it can cancel because there is no decision on first reading now that the decision on first reading is overturned. And that's not a problem. In order to comply with the Rules, however, it is necessary to make the decision that you have proposed in such an order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I have only one thing to say that this motion for a ruling has been overturned by the General Legal Department, and all of these finesse you've spoken of have been discussed. Lawyers have concluded that we need to adopt a draft decision in such an order. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of registration number 6509-P2 on the recognition of such that it has no effect on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on acceptance as the basis of the draft Tax Code. This is a project by Kseniya Liapina. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:46:45]] For-55 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the draft Decree No. 6509-P2 on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No.2454-VI of 08.07.2010 by Yuri Karmazin. [[on the need to enable the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to introduce another more balanced draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code]] I'll bet you a vote on the adoption of the draft decree as a ruling. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:47:37]] For 133 The decision is not taken. I submit to the vote a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 8 July 2010 "On the International Discussion of the Tax Code Project" and recognition of certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the draft Ukrainian Tax Code". [[Registration number 6509-P3]] Please vote. [[12:48:23]] For 251 Decision taken. I said, in general, right away. We accepted it in general, and all the decisions were taken at the same time. The project is a determination. Dear colleagues, according to our agreement, we turn to the next question. These are three draft laws: a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for services in the residential sector and for essentials, products and commodities. Dear colleagues, we have three bills on this point. This is a draft of the Law on Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, food products, essential goods, public transport services. [[except taxi]] [[Registration number 6477]] The author is Ukrainian national deputy Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Further draft of the Law on Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for natural gas consumption in 2010. [[Registration numbers 6712, 6712-1]] The authors are our colleagues Oleg Lazko and Roman Zvaric. We're going to be in this sequence and we're going to be looking at it. We had an agreement and a proposal to consider these issues by means of a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. That's it. This is a proposal from the Conciliation Council. I have to put the Conciliation Council's proposal to the vote. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[12:50:16]] For 230 Decision taken. I invite you to see Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews' report. Here's how the co-author of the bill prepare Oleg Laszko and Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the Communist faction consistently insists on taking steps to protect our fellow countrymen, our citizens, the most vulnerable groups of our population, that is, pensioners, veterans, many children and young people. As it is known, only during the last, final call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or today's sixth, has our faction submitted more than ten drafts of relevant legal acts on this issue. I would like to emphasize in particular the question of raising prices and tariffs for residential services. Unfortunately, they are systematic, these bills that have been tabled by our faction in Parliament have been blocked by the government and representatives of the oligarchic clans in Parliament. So in June of this year, Peter Mikolaiovich and I, Simonenko, on behalf of the Communist faction, submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law on moratoriums on higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas, electricity, food, goods of primary necessity, public transport. To what do our suggestions come first? Some of the main ones are to prohibit price increases and tariffs before paying off debts on salaries, pensions, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u90	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u91	Thank you. And the money for the students, the students and the students. For help, respectable colleagues: Today the debt of state enterprises to citizens amounts to 1 billion,792 million dollars. Secondly, we propose that housing services and household consumption of natural gas and electricity be paid to the population at prices and tariffs set at August 1st of this year. And the third position, the basic position of the bill: the cost of housing services, the cost of housing maintenance, cannot exceed 10 percent in the average total income of the family. By the way, this is part of the bill that we passed with you at the next session on August 30 of this year. I mean, as you can see, my fellow Members, all of these provisions of the bill apply primarily to the social protection of our people. And basically, those who need it are veterans, pensioners, multi-child families and so on. Therefore, I ask you, Your Honor, to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko will speak immediately about two bills, namely 6712, 6712-1. And accordingly, the time for his speech is increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, distinguished voters and citizens of Ukraine and those who have come today to support the opposition and defend their rights to the building of parliament where you have not been released, and those millions of Ukrainian citizens who are equally outraged by the actions of today's authorities, but for some reason or other have not been able to come forward today to express their protest. Please pay attention. Today, we are dealing with an extremely painful, extremely relevant issue for our country. The pro-power coalition votes to consider this issue in a reduced way, that is, yes, quickly, with a gallop. Look at the government bed: There is no government official in this matter. They are thus concerned about improving your life today. They came, lighted up in front of the cameras, the Prime Minister told us what a bad so-called opposition and went to do his black work: raise people's retirement age, raise gas prices, raise tariffs, bury millions of Ukrainians. That's what they went to do. And in the bed today are those who defend this power against the opposition that blocks the Supreme Council’s rostrum so as not to allow parliament to consider legislation that protects Ukrainian citizens. What does opposition offer? What is proposed in those bills, which are the authors, is the MPs from the opposition, particularly me, especially Roman Zvaric. We offer, given the situation, a moratorium on gas prices and residential services. And there are good reasons for that. It's not populism, as the authorities charge it with populism. Here's the score and that's all. In Ukraine, more than 20 billion cubic feet [20 billion cubic metres] of gas are extracted each year. Consumer consumption uses 18 billion cubic feet [18 billion cubic metres] of gas. The cost, the cost of producing Ukrainian gas, is 150 dollars per thousand cubic metres. And to our citizens, this gas of today's government is offering two, three thousand dollars per thousand cubic meters. What kind of oligarchs benefit from this? What is the difference between the cost of the production of Ukrainian gas and the price at which the Ukrainians receive it? This difference is in the pockets of government officials. This difference goes to the oligarchs who make money on it. Evidence? Please. District gases that supply gas to the population are responsible for Naftogazu’s 10 billion dollars. So people got money, Naftogazu didn't give it up. And the authorities tell us that we need to raise gas prices to save Naftogaz? Why not take the money from the money, the ten billion they owe? No, the government suggests: Let us reorganize the debt by five years, and we will raise the price of gas to the people. The government is counting on raising gas prices for the population to get an additional three billion dollars. You can take ten billion private gasses and not raise people at least three years of gas prices. But the authorities are going through the slightest opposition to choosing their own oligarchs, when millions of Ukrainians can be picked, and yet they can be shielded by the militia’s borders while still spitting on their interests from the parliamentary rostrum, and from the government’s bed. That's what power does. That is why we, the opposition, insist on launching a moratorium, or else we will take all measures to protect the interests of millions of Ukrainians. And the truth is on our side, and we will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! Among other things, there is a draft decision based on the authorship of Yuri Karmazin, who registered it yesterday. Registration number 7092. So I'd like to ask if we could listen to Yuri Karmazin's argument, then we can discuss all these documents and get to the vote. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! My registration of the bill is called upon to stop the “improvement”, the life that is already coming today. [[in quotes]] Stop, I mean, improving when they get more and more bills, including gas, and energy resources when prices go up. Because of this, I propose to ban the increase in prices and tariffs on residential services consumed by natural gas and electricity. And the Cabinet of Ministers will ensure the establishment of a mandatory salary for residential services, housing maintenance fees, housing costs, regardless of the form of ownership, the acquisition of clumped gas, solid and accumulating fuel of ten percent of the average total income of the family. What's going on? You know, if you're paid a grant, if you're taking a place, and if you rent a place like this, you don't get a grant. And so today, in Ukraine, several million people, so I propose the introduction of a simplified housing grant system for citizens to pay their dues or rent their homes in order, including the payment of gas, which provides for the release of citizens and the collection of help, such as family status, the cost of utilities for the assignment of subsidies. It is also suggested that the responsibility of energy - supplies or distribution operators in the area should be written down: to set up and service their consumption at their own expense. I also propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the USSR Union and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property, which in due course created a system for the export of money from the USSR through Cyprus. This will protect our citizens from the flight of about 7 billion a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u97	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I also propose in this decision of the National Commission for Electricity Regulation that a population tariff of one cubic meter of gas should be set for the absence of a counter at the tariff level paid when a counter is available. And once again, I want to thank both the opposition and the coalition for the fact that in the decision that we had adopted earlier, we wrote down a reference to the government, where we were obliged to produce and install the counters of our own production. By that time, however, at least those who do not have counters would have to pay, for they are twice as likely to pay. These cards have come to people today. They still can't figure it out, they all say 50 percent, and here they say 100 percent. I thank you for your attention and please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the discussion. Two "for", two "against". Please put the names of the people's deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, then Ivan Kirilenko. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u99	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, indeed, these bills deserve attention and they should be accepted if not for "but". Such a proposal cannot be supported, since according to article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, price policy enforcement is placed on the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, according to the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Common Services of Ukraine, tariffs on utility services by natural monopolies and the subject of marketing in compatible markets, which are licensed by the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Services, are established by the Commission. The imposition of tariffs on municipal services below the level of economically sound production costs without adequate compensation is not allowed and can be brought before a court of law. Parts three, five, six and eight of the Housing and Utilities Act provide that local government authorities set housing and utility tariffs no less than economically sound costs for their production. In the event of local self-government of housing and utility tariffs at a level that makes it impossible to obtain income, the authority that approved them is obliged to pay compensation from the relevant local budget to the operators, producers the difference between the established tariff price size and the economically sound costs for the production of these services. The cost of compensation for the loss of businesses associated with the establishment of housing and utility tariffs at a level that makes it impossible to obtain income is financed by the cost of the respective local budget. The faction of the Party of the Regions therefore invites the Supreme Council to take decisions within the framework of the current legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine, and not to violate either the Constitution or the existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u100	Ivan. Is Yuri Serbin speaking? Yuri Serbin, please. Then the faction who did not step out will have the opportunity to speak. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I want to explain why our faction will vote in favour of this moratorium and why it introduced this moratorium. Let us even reject political relations. We'll forget what the President promised by signing the Harkow Agreements. Let's forget about the moratorium that the Party of Regions fought for nine months ago, and I'll give you the normal numbers. We're going into a dead end, and you all see that we're going into a dead end. This gas can be increased and utilities endlessly. Why? Because we have 20 percent network losses. Because we have boilers working below 60 percent of the CPD, 40 percent. And this loss, we don't have 40 percent of our dwellings. And you and I adopted last year's programme to reform the LHC. As a result, you voted 2.8 billion in this budget. What did you take? 1.2. How long have you canceled? 600 million have been cancelled. There's only 600 left. We've spent 230. You have to replace 5,000 kilometers of pipelines, you've only replaced 500. So how much are we going to raise gas prices because we're just throwing this gas in the air? That's the first one. The other one. Now it's about gas prices. So let's just do the math. We don't have 5.8 billion to work with. Let's add this 5.8 billion for the price of Russian gas 240 dollars to our 44 and you're going to be 82 dollars, or 656 dollars. How did you set the price for the heat-supply? 1240 is twice as much. So where's the logic?Oh, my God! You will throw, throw, and throw away. It can still go back to its own program, return all billions and start reforming housing and utilities, repairing heat routes and boilers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u102	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u103	I'm done. And then you don't just have to raise the price of gas, and you don't have to raise the price of the LHC. I'm not talking about quality anymore. So be logical, go ahead, adopt this law, and then we'll have to force the government to reform the LHC, and then we won't decapitate our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u104	Yes, thank you. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” We support Karmazin's draft ruling and the Lasha's draft, because we think that in this case a moratorium is not an end in itself, it's not just populism to play a moratorium, it's just a necessity for a valid authority not to replace real reform, and reform is a change in social relations, just a mechanical increase in prices and tariffs. Because the mechanical rise in prices and tariffs actually doesn't just bring about reform, it actually just postpones reform. So we're making it look like there's no problem. We've raised prices and we're closing our eyes. And the problem is. And the previous reporter rightly pointed out that in order for the reform to take place, first, you need to invest money in infrastructure repairs, you need to make a proper reform of the calculation of the services that we are receiving, or actually we just don't get. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u106	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u107	And then we'll be able to see the real prices and the actual amount of services we get. Only then will we be able to talk about some kind of price policy. And now we can't allow the mechanical rise in the queue to give up reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u108	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u109	Sergey Gordienko, Communist faction, Poltavian. Dear colleagues, let's not be deceiving ourselves, and we all need to support the bill of our colleagues Simonek and Matthew on the moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for residential services. But I would suggest to the government that we urgently need to make maximum arrangements for the transfer of heat - generated objects to alternative heating. There's a very important, very super important question that we need to fix coal prices for the population in a state that took place until August 1, 2010. Since 2000, the price of 210 dollars has increased to 1,100. We need to carry out a comprehensive inspection of the gas that is being extracted, to put order in the wells, to restore the work of all those enterprises and to transfer them to state ownership as “Poltavanaftogasgeology”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u111	For the opposition, I would like you not to shed crocodile tears or protect the population. I'll remind you how your factions on district councils and district councils have initiated price increases and tariffs. And, unfortunately, you didn't bring people to the very walls of counsel. And it was the Communists who were really protecting people by bringing them out against your policy until 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, one minute, one minute. Please. Oleg Valeriyovich, last name wasn't called the National MP. Now let's finish the question, then from the faction everyone will have to express their position per minute. Please, don't interrupt, please. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. It's not quite simple. Everyone understands the need to protect people, but the request is, let's protect ourselves in a way that doesn't make people worse. At the same time, you and I have adopted a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which clearly states that people should pay no more than 10 percent of their income for housing and utilities, working at no more than 15 percent. So let's ensure that we have control over how this decision is being implemented, and then we'll make the following decisions. So let's move on in this way right now, let's move on to the decision on the question under discussion. It's all right. I am voting, as we have agreed, on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft laws. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis and in the whole of the draft Ukrainian Law on Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas, electricity, food products, goods of primary necessity, public transport services other than taxis. The authors are national deputies Simonenko and Matthew. [[13:13:23]] For-200 The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 125, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 48, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 0, non-fractional – 0. Next time. Dear colleagues! The bill, registration number 6712, “On moratoriums on prices and tariffs for consumption of natural gas in 2010” is now on the vote. Author – Oleg Lazko. And here's the next one, the cook. So now, I'm putting to the vote draft Law 6712 for its adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law. [[13:14:27]] For 176 The factions. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 125, “Our Ukraine” – 51, Communists, “Litvina Block” and non-fractional – 0. Now I'm putting to the vote, please note, the draft Law on Moratoriums for higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity in 2010-2011. Author – Roman Zvarić. Please identify yourself. [[13:15:14]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 124, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 50, Communists, “Litvina Block”, non-fractional – 0. I am now voting on the draft Resolution on Measures to Raise Prices and Tariffs for Housing and Utilities by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for adoption as a whole. [[author - Yuri Karmazin]] Please identify yourself. [[13:16:01]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 123, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Communist faction - 0, "Lithuania Block" - 0, non-fractional - 0. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. For the reasons of the vote, please. Dear colleagues, sign up one minute from each faction, please. I said from each faction they signed up for the board, please. Alexander Kuzmuk. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u113	Respectable people's deputies, if we want the Constitution and the laws to be implemented in the country, we must first and foremost abide by the laws and laws and the Constitution. I made it clear in my statement that I had just referred to the provisions of existing legislation and the Constitution, which clearly spelled out the powers of the Supreme Council, the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the local authorities. If anyone wants to stretch a blanket over himself, please make changes to the Constitution, cut down the rights of local self-government, step on the throat of local self-government, and the Supreme Council will decide. But the Party of the Regions does not share such an approach. We believe that it has the competence of local self-government, and we, as the Party of the Regions, believe that it is essential to transfer the functions of authority to local authorities. I therefore call on everyone on the ground and continue to work constructively as we began today's session. Very.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u114	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u115	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction "The Fatherland". People of good, respectable citizens of Ukraine, please see what is happening in this room. The person who just told you that they don't vote because, you see, it's a violation of the Constitution, that is to protect your rights to live in this country, not to breathe as a result of the activities of this authority, it's a violation of the Constitution. See how they block Parliament's work in the morning with one goal: to prevent Parliament from adopting laws aimed at protecting Ukrainian citizens. How many people will you cheat? Why don't you let them in? Why do you not vote on the laws that millions expect of you today? The answer to the question is simple because you're setting up a system of authoritarianism in the country where people think you don't care at all, because you know you're going to fake local elections, parliamentary elections and presidential elections, like you always did. A member of the Party of the Regions said: “They need all the opposition to put on their faces once more and not to go to the rostrum anymore.” There they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u116	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u117	It's their policy to beat everyone who disagrees with them. This, the citizens of honor, is the improvement of life that they have promised today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u118	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u119	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u120	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Now our faction has shown that whether the Communists have passed a bill, or whether we are with BUT, we have supported the protection of citizens, and we have voted in favour of those decrees. I remind you that it is not now voted for those who rent housing to have subsidies. Now, it's not voted not to double the cost of paying gas for the absence of a counter, now it's not voted for those rich people who have their skyscrapers, their hoaxes, to put up an instrument to account for what's being spent. No such stop has been voted on at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u121	Give Yuri Karmazin a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u122	Thank you. So our faction repeatedly refers to all the factions that are the Supreme Council in order to protect the population of Ukraine to vote in favour of any of these decrees. This is the first time. And secondly, sit in your seats and engage in constructive work without hindering others and creating any such, you know, contradictions between the political forces and the people to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u123	Yes. Svetlana Schmelov, microphone. Valentina Matthew, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I have spoken of the fact that only in the last two years has the faction of Communists introduced more than 10 bills, which were related to measures for a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs and not only on housing and utilities, but on the goods of first necessity and so forth. This speaks of our consistent position in defending the interests of our people. And unfortunately, even today, we have not received a positive result on the vote that we have tabled with Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko to consider the bill's parliament. That's why I'm addressing our respectable voters. We have what we have in Parliament today. And you need to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, we've exchanged thoughts with you. May I have your attention, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, no. There's an unconstructive offer, there's a job. Let's do what's right. We made a deal with you yesterday, and today we're going to take another look at all the questions, each one of you is going to take a stand, and we're going to move on. Let's get back to the project carefully. to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If it is done as stated in this decree, people should no longer pay for utilities 10-15 percent. If we want the Supreme Council to serve the meetings, let us serve. We don't need a fight in the Supreme Council. Once again, let's show an elementary order. It was agreed on the Conciliation Council that we would consider this question, no matter what decision we made, we would continue to work. Was there such an agreement? It's implemented. So I'd like to ask the honourable colleagues to continue our work. We will not provide anything good for humans. Let's make a decision. All of it. Dear colleagues, advertised for consideration, are being announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft Law on Amendments to Article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment (for enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities) is announced for consideration. Registration number 6413. The rapporteur is Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee, Nikolaychuk Olena Anatoliyevna. Coroner is the head of the economic policy subcommittee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. There is an offer: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:25:08]] For 217 Decision taken. Helen Anatolyevna, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. In Ukraine, nuclear energy is widely used for peaceful purposes. Tsk is not just nuclear energy, it's a large number of sources of ionizing radiation, mining and processing of uranium ore, dealing with radioactive waste transport of radioactive materials. Clear compliance with nuclear power, legislation is the basis for preventing and preventing radioactive pollution of the environment for the purpose of ensuring both the safety of life and the health of humans and the protection of the environment. A particular danger is companies that have used or used nuclear energy in their activities, particularly sources of ionizing radiation, but cannot ensure that all necessary security measures are implemented as a result of insolence. In the face of an economic crisis in Ukraine, the number of such enterprises has increased. Sources of ionizing radiation stored on the banks have the highest risk of being involved in illegal circulation, which could lead to radiation accidents. An example of such a radiation accident is the discovery of an ionized source of ionizing radiation at an industrial dump in the city of Constantine’s Donetsk district, which has resulted in pollution of the environment in a large area. Direct and indirect government spending on eliminating the effects of this radiation accident sent about 5 million dollars. At the same time, the timely transfer of the source of non - burial would cost no more than 5,000 dollars. Such sources are also used in enterprises that are traditionally not considered hazardous. The current version of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor’s Pay-as-you-go Bankruptcy Act is not fully regulated in the context of the conduct of bankruptcy of such enterprises. Hence, the urgent need to adopt the proposed bill. This bill obliges companies whose activities relate to the use of nuclear energy to immediately notify the State Nuclear and Radiological Security Authority of the violation of bankruptcy cases against them, and it is proposed that the State Nuclear and Radiation Security Authority be involved in conducting such bankruptcy cases. Other additions to the mandatory terms of the competition are also important in the process of selling property to bankrupt people in support of security of production and physical protection. The adoption of the proposed changes will reduce the risk of radiation accidents in Ukraine. Please support the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payability by bankruptcy, accepting it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u127	Thank you. Alexander Bondar, head of the subcommittee. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers proposing to establish the characteristics of bankruptcy of enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities, in particular to be recognized by the State Regulatory Authority for Nuclear and Radiological Safety or its regional inspections as part of a bankruptcy case. The bill proposes to amend article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of Bankruptcy, which provides for the inclusion in the list of particularly dangerous enterprises whose activities require special measures by enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities. Reimbursement of nuclear power-related activities, provision of information to nuclear and radiation security authorities regarding the discovery of bankruptcy in enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities. Recognition of State regulation and radiation security by a participant in the bankruptcy case of enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a significant observation on the content of the bill. However, it is thought that it can be taken as a basis for taking into account the comments made and the suggestions made. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Two for, and two for, against, please sign up, dear colleagues. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, and then Sergey Vlasenko will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Of course, this bill deserves attention and needs to be supported. I want to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has a social component because it will necessarily contribute to reducing the risk of illicit nuclear material circulation, reducing the risk of radiation accidents and so forth. And another circumstance. Dear colleagues! Remember, in this session room, we have not once tried to adopt a bill that would allow people living in a 30-mile zone near the current nuclear power plants to guarantee peace, security and sustainable development of these areas. I think we're going to need to go back to these bills. Today’s government bill says that special measures must be taken to list particularly dangerous businesses that need to be stopped. We have a lot of such businesses that use nuclear energy in their activities. You know, by producing electricity, nuclear power, Ukraine has one of the leading places in Europe. Therefore, this bill must be supported here in the session room in order to allow the government to develop the following measures that would improve and standardize the bankruptcy process, or the debtor, which includes a certain segment in the development of the Ukrainian national economic complex. I don't know, I didn't listen to the final conclusions of the committee, my colleague Alexander Bondar, I think that this bill could be accepted both on a basis and as a whole as a bill, because it's worked out to the end and all the standards written there in accordance with the positions of our Ukrainian norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u131	Sergey Vlasenko passes on the right to speak to Oleg Laszko or Vladimir Bondarenko, to whom? The can says, so let's give the can what I can do. Oleg Light's microphone, it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u132	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction, Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we do not object to the law that you are currently considering, but we believe that it is absolutely immoral and irresponsible for the citizens of the country to consider all other bills until the pressing issues that concern millions of citizens are resolved. Today, these are three questions that every person, excuse me, like a bone in his throat, is raising gas tariffs, that's raising housing and utility tariffs, that's increasing retirement age. We think that the Ukrainian Parliament, if it's really Ukrainian, has to look at these bills first, and then everyone else, about nuclear regulation, air regulation and so on. So we suggest that we go back to the bill on establishing a moratorium. Four bills were considered, and the bill passed by Peter Simonenko was the most widely voted. We propose to go back to the bill for Simonck's authorship and vote on it. For us, it doesn't matter who is the author of the human rights bill. If Mr. Chechetov takes the floor right now and says he's ready to propose a bill to introduce a moratorium on gas prices and tariffs, we will also vote in favour of the Chechtov bill. We will vote in favour of the Azarov government bill if it introduces such a bill to establish a moratorium on the price of gas and tariffs in housing. We don't fight for authorship, we don't fight for politics, it's people's interests. And today all MPs of independent party orientation in power, coalition or opposition, have to vote on these laws, if they're really Ukrainians, for the Ukrainians we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to conclude our consideration of the question, and since the name of our colleague Mikhail Chechtov was called, he will have the right to a replica. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote and to say so. Not long ago, the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was blocked, requiring the adoption of the Law on State Social Standards and Minimum Wages. What did you say then, dear colleagues? They called for common sense. And after they passed the law, they failed. Come on, dear fellows, please, you've done it. Dear colleagues, have you done your will, your vision? The Supreme Council did not support it. Come on, negotiate with the deputies, come on, get support in 226, make a proper bill and we'll show our love for the Ukrainian people again. And let us fulfill the arrangements we have reached! And let's stop showing these freaks! That's the right question, isn't it? That's right. Because we have the principle: If we are not in power, let this country fall! And we're demonstrating in turn what Ukraine can't do. Well, please, let's finally show some common sense, but we're all adults. So we completed our consideration of the bill, registration number 6413, and the committee is proposing to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery of the Payment of the Debtor or the Recognition of It by Bankruptcy. Registration number 6413. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:36:46]] For 248 Decision taken. Michael Chechetov now has the right to a replica. And they called it his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I suppose life has something to teach! I'm talking to my opposition colleagues: you're a populism, you're a self-destructive liar, you've failed your orange group, you've ruined your B.U.T., you're already running like hell. Well, that's enough cheating. People can no longer understand your position in principle the worse, the better. Maybe it's better for you, but it's worse for the country. And we will put in place systematic bills that will be social compensators in the face of a crisis when we go to balanced energy prices. It's not gonna be a lie to people. That is true, it is a real truth that will enable people to feel the support of the State in changing prices. But I repeat to you, take a constructive position, we must build a state, not destroy it. We have one goal: we are all with you and the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Prohibition of Disposal, Retraining, Disqualification and Transfer to the Rent of Health Care Services is under review. [[Registration number 6436]] The reporter is Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, the microphone. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a brief procedure to address this issue. Please vote. [[13:38:43]] For 238. Decision taken. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u136	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy at the meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Disposal, Retraining, Disposal and Transfer to the Rental of Health Care Services, which is not related to health and rest, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to preserve the network of health facilities, prevent their liquidation and misuse, solve the problems of quality public recovery, ban the removal, retraining, alienation, and transfer to the rental of health facilities for activities unrelated to health and rest. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to return to work. However, the committee supported the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Disposal, Retraining, Deprivation and Transfer to the Rent of Health Care Services, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Motivation for what? That's a very urgent question. There are now very many cases of alienation, re-invention of relevant institutions, and therefore, if there are any legal inconsistencies in the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the committee can work on them from time to time until the second reading. So I'm asking the National Deputies to support the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of its further development in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the bill, two for, two for, two against. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A rightful member of the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” by the distinguished Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar on the positive assessment of the government bill. The project proposes that, with a view to creating conditions for quality public recovery, executive authorities and local self - government should not be allowed to take decisions on the elimination, retraining, alienation, and transfer to the rental of health facilities for activities unrelated to public health and recreation. It should be noted that the ban on liquidation, retraining, and the alienation of health facilities without adequate financial and material security are not capable of achieving the stated objective of the project, which is to contribute to the well-being of the population. The project also does not take into account that article 142 of the Ukrainian Constitution compensates the State for the expenditure incurred by local governments as a result of decisions made by public authorities. In this regard, the project should be complemented by appropriate standards, such as compensation for the appropriate costs of local self - government. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports the proposal and the rapporteur and proposal of the Supreme Council's Committee of Profiles, the Committee on Economic Policy, to adopt the bill as a basis, and then to work on the calculation of the proposals made for the second reading and to adopt it as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u139	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. The next one is Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u140	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I pressed the "against" button because the Communist Party of Ukraine has always been against re-profile and alienation, alienation is actually stealing from the state and from its people these institutions. As the latest developments have shown, in connection with the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukrainian Law and the transfer of children to education from the age of five, we have not found any preschool facilities, because everything that has been built, and has been built enough and much, it has all gone and turned out not in the hands of the state, not in the hands of municipal property, but to the privates. So on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I'm talking about not only banning re-profile and alienation, but also carrying out inventory of these facilities, showing these circumstances, under which they went into other hands and brought those people to account. The faction of the Company of Ukraine urges everyone to vote in favour of the bill and to take stock of these institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u141	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u142	“Julia Timoshenko Block”, Reforms and Order, Vladimir Bondarenko. Dear friends who have been in the Crimea recently, you could not help but notice that his chart actually shows the disappearance of a system of child - care workers who have been involved in such a specific disease as tuberculosis. The point is that today, WHO and many other international health organizations define Ukraine as an epidemic zone. Who has become the master of these unique natural climate zones where TB is treated without drugs? Well, I know, for example, the "Bobrow" sanatorium, where the Kyiv Dynamists said they took possession of this territory, and the children were thrown out. Bone tuberculosis was treated there. I know that in several areas of Crimea there are also owners and they are sitting in this room. So it is absolutely urgent to look back. Not just banning it today, we're already punching our tails when everything is basically stolen, as they say, to you. And you were also in power. In fact, the Qutmin administration, the Qutmin Kabmin, is back in power today. And in those years, when Yanukovsky was in charge, he was in the same process as the Prime Minister. So let's look at the complex, who's where, who's who and what's drawn. I don't know if I've profiled it. And I would like to make sure that the situation is absolutely favourable to those institutions that continue to work in this direction, but for example, they have another private owner. If he inhaled life there, in the wreckage, that's one thing. And if he planted his firm there today and he's not doing anything to heal him, it's a little different. So that this does not turn into total repression or redistribution of property today. I am very concerned about what might happen as a result of the adoption of this document. Redistribution may begin, as it is in industry, as it is today in other areas. So I urge you to support, but with such a reservation, for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin, one minute from the faction, has the right to speak. Then we'll ask the Head of the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u144	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! Find out about this project, with permission to say 12 lines. Yeah. We can't destroy everything anymore. Yeah, you can't take the law as a legal act, because 12 lines, I repeat. It needs to be complemented and complemented. So there's something to write on the second reading. But what I'd like to say is that not only do those who sit in the hall have a semi-Crymian peninsula. And I was just there. And I can say that the thesis: “Love Ukraine!” which is all over Ukraine when the President greeted the country with Independence Day, changed to Crimea. There “love Ukraine” is excluded, and it is simply written “With Independence Day”. So I want what's going on in the country to be the same laws on Crimea and on the return of property, including government leaders who.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, Head of the State Property Fund Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, I would like to point out that the restrictions set by the project are to be implemented when any management decisions are made on the activities of such institutions. And the preservation of the profile of health facilities should take place in any way that such institutions are alienated. Please support the bill and accept it as the basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. Please prepare for the vote. A vote is taken on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on the Prohibition of Disposal, Retraining, Disposal, and Transfer to Renting of Health Care Services to conduct activities unrelated to recovery and rest. Please vote. [[13:48:45.]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Culture Act is on the line. At the same time, the Committee concludes: “Returning the subject of the right to a legislative initiative for further development”, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Let's, maybe we'll talk about this in a nutshell, figure out what we're going to do, and then we'll take a break. Is there no objection? Therefore, I propose to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the conclusion of this bill. And I'm putting to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:49:41]] For 239. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Minister for Culture and Tourism, Mikhail Andriyovich. The focal point will be the head of the Yavorovska Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law on Culture, designed to improve the existing mechanisms for the implementation of State policy and legal relations in the field of culture, is proposed. Today, the basic component of the legal base in the field of culture is considered to have been adopted as early as 92 C.E. I will not stop for long because many positions are completely or partially outdated and do not really work. In view of this, the Ministry has returned to the drafting of the Ukrainian Cultural Law, which has been valid since 1999. Since 2007, the bill has already been adopted twice by the government and has been under review in the Supreme Council, but today it has been introduced for the first time in the session hall. Dear people's deputies, we all use cultural acquisitions, we are proud of our artists, those people who preserve our culture, preserve our identity. As a result, I am confident that today all national MPs will vote in favour of this project. Are workers waiting for a culture of adoption of this law? Of course, because, first of all, it allows you to work at the full rate, because the only sector is the cultural sector where workers work at both 0.25 and 0.5 bets. In particular, it is intended to provide support for senior members of rural club establishments, since this category of cultural workers is the least socially protected. We want all cultural workers to have the same social standards. To reduce budgetary stress, we propose the gradual introduction of article 29 over three years. Thus, the new law will move the local authorities to spend additional budget resources, not on massive measures, but on normalizing the economic status of the material base of their cultural institutions, improving the social status of the workers. We ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u149	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u150	Dear voters! Once you've probably had the opportunity of those who listen to us to see once again that most people in the Ukrainian Parliament don't need culture, they've translated it into a shortcut, giving the minister 2 minutes and I 2 minutes. This once again tells us that this authority views culture as completely secondary and unnecessary. This is because today Parliament has not given its hand to the Ukrainian people in order to protect them. Yesterday, on all television channels, the regions were talking about the fact that by the new year, they wouldn't raise tariffs, and today, it turned out, there wasn't enough basic conscience to vote even if it was the one that offered their Communist solidarity. That's why I'm convinced that in two minutes I'm going to talk about Ukrainian culture, it's unconscious. Because of that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we should take another time. It's a law, not just an appendix, a law that's been wandering around different offices for years. This needs to be fundamentally discussed and decided. In protest, I will not make this report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u151	I think you might be able to step out of the session room and when your colleagues are blocking the rostrum. Do not demonstrate a selective approach. I think someone should show objectivity and honesty. Please sign up, national MPs, to discuss the bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Ruslan Knazević, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u152	I ask you to pass the word to Karpuku. Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u153	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u154	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this bill needs to be supported because it has been developed by several governments and mainly by the previous minister and in this bill the concentrated desire of cultural workers who are now in a pitiful state. I want to say that whatever reforms in the economy we make, which we tax, customs codes do not introduce, what amendments to the Constitution would not be adopted without the development of Ukrainian culture, Ukraine, as an independent and independent state with its own face in this global world, will not be. And so despite the committee's negative decision, we need to adopt this bill in the first reading. Because we've already wasted quite a lot of time on these. Bureaucratic gravity. When we do not accept it in the first reading, we will lose it again. For the second reading, we really need a working group on the committee to work with the Ministry. We share the minister's view of these. We need to introduce salary increases over a period of several years, we understand this -- the economic situation, but not to adopt this first, first reading of this law means not to support Ukrainian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u155	Mikhailo Kosov, please, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u156	Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of Reforms and Orders. I would think that the best way to do that is not to talk about how much culture law is needed today, because it's really necessary, but what material we're dealing with. And unfortunately, we're dealing with material where even basic terms are vague and vague. There is no such concept: what is a “national culture”? What, then, is the culture of national minorities and indigenous peoples living in Ukraine? Of course, cultural workers also need social workers. The solution to a lot of social problems, but if we don't, let's say, have in this law a clear decision that cultural workers are scientists, or government officials, or some other definition, we're not going to solve these social problems by this law. And so when we were looking at this draft law at our committee meeting, we asked the Ministry staff, actually, what the colleagues are saying: let's sit together and make a new version of this law. But we were convinced that then we would have to go through all the reconciliations in the new circle. And yet, I would think it would be very good if we voted for this law to be re-readed, cleaned up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u157	Give me a chance to finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u158	i.e. for the re-reading of the first reading, I have made very clear all these points, which are not written or clearly written in it, and then with a light conscience, I think the entire Supreme Council would vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u159	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I think the conclusions of the committee head are both unconscionable and unscrupulous. I think how a well-known Ukrainian cultural figure he's burning up, changing his mind, and by second reading we're going to get a high-quality professional law that really needs a society today. A bill that would not have been politically involved without political inclination would have been colored. A clear and clear bill, by the way, that clearly defines both the powers of the central executive authority and the local executive authorities in the field of culture. And one more thing, I have one more minute, so I want to turn our television audiences, radios. One of the components of Ukrainian culture is political culture. Now you see at the rostrum a vivid pattern of the political culture of the so-called opposition. The day’s question stood in order, he was not supported, and they continue to stand here, preventing the Supreme from working.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u161	Paul Silent, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I rather have a question to Michael Andryovich, the minister of culture. Because I belong to those who will support this bill in the first reading. Motivation understood, the minister set it up today. There are social problems, including tariff problems, all that has accumulated over the years in connection with the fact that culture is financed by a residual principle. That is why it allows us to cope with these problems. But at the same time, I have comments that he wanted to hear. You cannot make a literature textbook, as today’s minister of education does without a Ukrainian ingredient. Similarly, the definition of this law cannot simply contain “culture”. World culture is the total cultures of every nation, every nation, every nation. And that's why Ukrainian culture has to be prescribed as it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u163	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u164	Just like it is in an existing edition. That's why, Michael Andryovich, I'm drawing your attention to this very point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u165	Mikhail Andryovich, please, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u166	Of course, we will work with both the committee and the National Deputies before the second reading. But in fact, the honourable national MPs in most of them have pointed out that this law is primarily the social support of our club workers who work in rural clubs. They're still working at 0.25, halfway. Here we go. Of course it's going to go up, of course it's going to go up. And that's why I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading with the fact that we're going to work on it and we're going to adopt it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The bill is closed. The Committee’s conclusion: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. I put to the vote the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Culture. [[Registration number 6469]] Please vote. [[14:02:23]] For 303 The law was adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. Since 16th hour, we will continue our consideration of Tuesday's September 7th schedule.
