ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:09]] They registered cards in the 420 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Vladislav Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] Welcome to Kaskov. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 13 November 2010. 59 questions of the agenda were considered: passed laws, 12 bills adopted as a basis, 2 bills sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 2 bills returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 12 bills rejected. The rest of the bills were considered only in the agenda, hence the number 59. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are scheduled for 30 minutes on Wednesday for the national MPs. Please, Your Honor, make a record of the performance. Olga Bodnar. Who? Andrew Sanchenko, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland," please. Why isn't the microphone working? Check it out. Microphone, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! For the first time in 10 months, the authorities demonstrated their willingness to engage in dialogue with society. If there is really a desire to find a solution to the problem of the Tax Code, it is important to understand that people are upset not only by its content but also by the way in which power works. The exit should be searched in both planes accordingly. No cosmetic rights tax code will be available this year. We need to stop and understand a few simple things. Small business today consists of two contingent groups. First. People who, without the spirit of entrepreneurs, are thus forced to work for a poverty pension and who are unable to get a job properly are unable to survive on the unemployment benefit. The ideal answer for them is a strong social policy for pensioners and jobs with a normal salary for workers. Until the authorities are able to provide such a response, there must be the most favourable regime for the self-employment of these people. The second group is actually entrepreneurs representing small businesses. Each one of them naturally hopes to grow up, but he still looks forward to himself rather than to public resources as a power for businesspeople. For a small business, it's important that they don't take off, give you a chance to get on your feet, raise your business. Five or ten years from now, there will always be people starting their business, and that is why there must always be a business-friendly regime, not a code-based reservation for its extinction. At the same time, the ceiling for simplified business should be the same as when the transition to a common tax system and additional accounting costs, respectively, become justified. Another question needs to be answered. How to ensure that small businesses are not afraid to become larger, and big business is no longer disguised as small businesses. First, it is necessary to legislate such rules of tax administration when there is no place left to be, and the authorities will begin to realize that it is employed by the people and exists through taxes. Secondly, it is legislative to impose a reasonable limit on the tax burden on the commercial profits of the enterprise. Thirdly, it is legal to establish a limit on the level of labour taxes, i.e. a reasonable limit on the sum of taxes on wages. This will allow for the adoption of the Tax Code in the first half of the following year and its entry into force on 1 January 2012. And one more thing. As soon as negotiations with entrepreneurs began in the Government, Alexander Dudko, a Simferopol entrepreneur, was active, five brigades stood at a 15-minute interval on Saturday: OBOP, UBEP.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u4	I'm done. And I want to say that this is no way to negotiate. That's not how we negotiate with society, that's what we all see, and nobody's gonna forget. And Vladimir Mikhailovich, last one. Regardless of the decisions of our Freedom of Speech Commission, my statements here and your speeches by the executive and the prosecutor's office have simply been on the lookout for all of this and the accounts of the Black Sea Broadcasting Company have been arrested for the fifth month now. Only because people with different views are there entitled to a voice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u5	Sergey Usarov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Gregory Kaletnik has the right to speak. Then Shishkin will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. I welcome all of our citizens who were determined 19 years ago in the referendum to build their own independent state. I would like with special warmth and gratitude to welcome our hardworking, tireless, professional laborers, who have been able to do their work and in this difficult weather conditions of the year to provide enough food for the entire Ukrainian people. We have recently celebrated a professional festival – Agricultural Workers' Day, which is why I would like to take this opportunity to welcome from the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, as well as colleagues of the National Deputies, our laborers with this celebration of real and caring owners, who, every day with their minds, hearts, tireless hands, preserve our charitable field. Let the field’s rich crops flourish, plan for life, and family life live in family comfort, happiness, well - being, and well - being. Indeed, fellow believers, all of us remember the ice creams this year, as well as the summer heat that was higher in some days than in African Sahara. But thanks to the work of the peasants, a rather high harvest was gathered. Forty - one and a half million tons of grain were wet, and sugar beet was collected this year from nearly 500,000 acres [17,000 ha] more than last year. And this is also the credit of our native laborers. In spite of the difficult financial situation, two thousand were received at the beginning. I want to celebrate the positive role and understanding of the APC's problems by the economic bloc of the government, which was not only meant to solve the problem of huge financial gaps, but also to implement the envisaged agricultural support programmes. Yes, of January-November's 3 billion funded from the 100 percent total fund, from a special fund of 4 billion, 73.7 percent funded. It can also be said that the Codex Code preserves the basic elements for agricultural development, such as tax specifics for agricultural producers. But I also want to say a number of problems. It's not a secret that it was the APC that caused the increase in export performance during the financial crisis. An agro-industrial complex, agrarian science, and education have been added to the 1st bracelet. There is an urgent need for technical restocking in agriculture, where we have 75 percent of the old technology, which causes the loss of crops to be about 5 percent. Today's excessively high loan rates are 24-38 percent. That's terrible! It is a source of concern and funding for agrarian science and education. Agrarian establishments, with 80 percent of rural youth, require increased funding in response to the need to increase the number of highly qualified professionals. Soon the main financial document will be considered and adopted. [[please 10 seconds]] Shortly thereafter, the main financial document for 2011 was considered and adopted. So I would like to go to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, and ask them to consider the issues that we now have in mind, to draw conclusions and to allocate sufficient funds for the development of the 2011 agri-industrial complex. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u7	The National MP, Shishkina, is handing over the right of the speech to Alexandri Goodimi, the "BUT – Fatherland" faction, please. Next will be Pauline and Tereshuk, six minutes later. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u8	Goodima, Yulia Timoshenko, Fr. "Paternity." Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On December 1, a very sign for the Ukrainian electorate, the Party of the Regions decided to give the next gift. Yesterday, hundreds of thousands of kyans ran out of heat, and December 1st, they're ten-degree ice creams. What happened when the Chinese freeze and the Party of Regions can't give them a better life today? The point is that one branch of the Party of Regions in the Mayor of Popov cannot recover the costs of Kyivenergo, which belongs to another branch of the Party of the Regions. They'll put up with hundreds of thousands of kyans. And the question is, why can Mr. Popov, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Azarova, not be able to return the money to the regional party's structure in the person of Kyivenergo? The thing is, honourable voters, that the other part, the branch of the Party of Regions today, all the free money is going to buy expensive Russian gas to return twelve billion meters of cubic gas to Rossukre Energo. Every month, NAC Naftogaz extracts and returns Russia, Gazprom, one billion dollars for the purchase of Russian gas, while last year the equivalent period was only 500 million, which was enough for the Ukrainian economy and the population. So what are the priorities, what is the energy strategy today in the Party of Regions? It is the only one: loved by roads, damaged by national interests, damaged by the loss of voters, quickly, quickly return 12 billion meters of cubic gas to Rosukreenergo. I'm giving you terrible figures: from the beginning of the heating season NAK Naftogaz sold Russian gas to Ukrainians, an economy of 1.5 billion dollars. Naftogazu NAK returned only 300 million, i.e. NATO Naftogaz bankrupted 1 billion 200 million in just one month. NAK Naftogaz is taking loans in Russia to close that huge hole, which is clearly corrupt. So today, December 1st, it's freezing in the yard, and the Party of Regions has one strategy: to share money, to take it to the Ukrainians, to make money on it, because it's only for transmission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u10	In the transfer of 12 billion metres of cubic gas to Rosukrento, the total earnings in Ukraine for Gazprom and RosUkre Energo amount to $2.5 billion. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u11	Thank you. Yes, please, six minutes. Do you have six minutes? And instead of Pauline. Yes, please, Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Sergey Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania, People's Party, Cherkaščina. Taking advantage of this opportunity and the fact that we are ahead of the 2011 State Budget, I intend to address issues of great social importance concerning agricultural workers and rural people in general. Recently, we did not mark the day of a farm worker at a state level, for peasants deserve national honor and respect. Without creating wealth, prosperity, in spite of underprivileged state agrarian politics, under difficult living conditions, they feed the city and the country today, make sure that every family has bread and much bread. They not only feed the country but also contribute to the development of other areas. Yes, in Cherkaschi, agriculture has two thirds of gross production. The increase in gross agricultural production in ten months is more than 8 percent, and how does the state repay the peasants? Only a few tens of millions of dollars have been set aside from the village’s stabilization fund. In large numbers, these are coins, so rural social problems are never solved. The most relevant is the gasification of the villages. A little over fifty percent of the villages are gassed in Cherchishka. And in areas like Chigirinski, Spolyanski, about 20 percent, Kanivsky, less than 30 percent. I can't say that today the people of cities live sweetly, but they can't imagine their lives without blue fuel, and the villagers are forced to freeze or by any means buy too much expensive wood and coal for the last bracelet. I know that this year there has been virtually no funding for the gasification of villages in Cherkaščina. Worse yet, it's sad and unclear that Naftogaz Ukraine, and the government doesn't even intend to pay off debts to subcontractors for the work done on objects. There are some examples that do not give in to common sense at all, some of them. Since 2004, the construction of the Smila-Ternivka-Kuszka gas pipeline has been started at the expense of the State Budget. Over the years, only 300,000 dollars have been allocated, in 2009, 100,000 dollars, 150 buildings have been gassed up, but the pipeline is not operational because of the debts of a subcontractor. And such examples are not alone. The Vekne-Cathirole gas pipeline, the villages are gassed, the rural inhabitants have saved up gas to their buildings, gased their homes, hoping that the gas would be gas they hadn't cooked their wood, not cooked their coal, they didn't pass the gas. Today there are problems in the city, there are problems in Kiev. But these problems are too acute in rural areas. According to the Department of Capital Construction of the Regional State Organization with Naftogaz Ukraine, 16 objects have been contracted for financing, where 90 to 100 percent of the work, accepted documents, acts of work are done, but funding is not carried out. These appeals are left without consideration, or we receive formal receipts. With all the difficulties, the government should be able to resolve issues that do not affect the knees of subcontractors or that do not bring about problems of natural gasification. At the same time, there is a problem of small villages, to which there is no economic reason, to waste gas. Finally, we need to start a project that allows us to get the heating of rural areas, remote villages, at the expense of electricity. This too needs to be done today. Perhaps there is no need to convince anyone in this room that it is time to take decisive steps to support the village if we are to preserve the economic independence of the state. Such measures should be based on the State budget and on the involvement of domestic and foreign investment. In order to support the village, we're going to have to give up something, and we have to realize that. I ask that my speech be regarded as a parliamentary appeal to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u13	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko is referring the right to speak to Michael Wolinz, the "BUT-Paternity" faction. The next one will be the coat of arms. And the coat of arms gives the right to speak to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u14	Dear TV setters, respected colleagues, respected radio audiences! Today, all the attention of the Ukrainian society is drawn to the Tax Code. We see people in Maidan, we see people in the region who are protesting, and Parliament is now starting to react to this situation with the President, the authorities. But on the other hand, there's a very important question: it's the Labour Code. By no means can we agree with what is suggested in article 143 of the Labour Code to increase the working week from 40 to 48 hours. But in the second part of this article, it is possible to increase the working hours much higher and more if the worker is in a mode of waiting for work or is likely to be able to rest during work changes. In no way can we agree with article 13 of the second part, which provides that all the labour relations in the collective can be regulated solely by the employer of internal regulations. Then we don't need collective agreements, then we don't need agreements. But what about the fact that on November 9, this year, employers, the old unions, the authorities signed a general agreement without a tariff component, where a network of tariff rates fell out of office salaries that were put into effect in the previous contract under the government of Timoshenko. And in that case, if you don't need collective agreements and agreements to the industry, regional ones, then these issues are totally out of order, and the cleaning lady and the doctor of the first category will get the same salary. Next question. The 48 and 49 articles of the project provide that the test term may increase to 6 months. If that happens, we see a situation today where young people work for three months in the financial sector, and then they are explained that they have not passed the probationary deadline and are released. In this case, they will be free of charge in one bank for six months, and they will be released without warning in six months, and in another bank they will also work for six months. So he's asking, where's the state? Why is there a need for such a Labour Code, which today is being pushed out by representatives from the Party of the Regions? The next question is the 28th article, which provides for the right of the employer to use video surveillance cameras to control the workplace, using listening devices and so on. Social dialogue. It is expected that the old trade unions will have complete control of the social dialogue and represent hired workers abroad. And also sign collective agreements and agreements, control social insurance funds, hospitals, health care and so on. Then the question is, How well - being are the workers today? When the Federation of Trades now receives $1 billion a year from one of the social insurance funds. So the question is, how is this used in this case? It's all about the action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u16	The new Labour Code is expected to be transferred to the Cabal*. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I also address you, let us, along with your National Party, fight against such a disgraceful Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u17	Thank you. Respectable national MPs, because the subject of the Labour Code and the Housing Code is very common, do not have this subject, and it will not be in the near future. Therefore, there is no reason to fight “winds. ” I accept your call. But for all of us and for those who listen to us, I express my will to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: let us at least deal with the Tax Code. The Labour and Housing Codes are not being considered and are not being reviewed in the plans of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Do you have a deal? All of it. Please, Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u18	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The events of recent weeks give us reason to believe that our European partners are inclined toward Ukraine. Yes, on October 5, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in its Resolution welcomed the emergence of political stability in Ukraine and the consolidation of power as a precondition for democratic and economic reforms. Then, on November 22nd, the "Ukraine-EU" summit approved an action plan for the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukraine's short-term travel, Ukraine-EU, which is in fact the first real step towards creating conditions for the free movement of our fellow countrymen across Europe. The Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, on the general principles of Ukraine's participation in EU programmes, was also signed. A joint report on you holding the Memorandum between Ukraine and the EU on understanding of energy cooperation during 2010 and the fourth joint report on progress made in the negotiations on a deeper and inclusive free trade area as a key element of the Association Agreement. These documents provide real prospects for the free movement of Ukrainian citizens, goods, services and capital, as evidenced in the EU's agreement with the new Ukrainian authorities and the potential for Ukraine's accession to the European Community. Thanks to the constructive, pragmatic approach of the parties in 2010, the parties were able to reach an understanding on most of the chapters of the agreement and to agree on an expert basis on the texts of the preamble, the sections on political dialogue, justice, freedom and security, and sectoral and economic cooperation. A small number of issues that remain to be discussed at a later stage suggest that Ukraine and the EU are considering concluding negotiations with their key tasks in the short term. In support of this 25 November, the European Parliament adopted a resolution which, for the first time in the history of relations between the EU and Ukraine, explicitly states that, in accordance with Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union, Ukraine can apply for EU membership. This is an undeniable success of Ukrainian power led by President Viktor Yanukovic, who, along with the Party of Regions, has consistently implemented the position of their pre-election program. Including foreign policy and, in particular, European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u19	Roman Tkac gives Jaroslav Kendzior the right to speak. Antony Bolour will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u20	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!”, party “For Ukraine!” Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Ukraine, just a few days ago, commemorated the day of the victims of famine and political repression. But I want to mention today a little bit about another repression of this magnitude of interstate. The Supreme Court of the Russian Federation for the submission of the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation has recently suspended the activity of Ukrainian national and cultural autonomy, the only all-U.S. public organization that is the United of Ukrainians in Russia, which ranks some 10 million Ukrainians. So she stopped her activity. Neither the reaction of the President of Ukraine, nor the reaction of the Cabinet of Ministers, nor the President's Administration, to the great regret, and Parliament -- this is the first time that the Supreme Council has heard this problem, this repression, this contempt for the great Ukrainian diaspora that lives in the Russian Federation. And as it is, respected colleagues are associated with what the Russians have in Ukraine. We hear this cry worldwide about humiliation, oppression, the pressures of Russian language and so on and so forth. And when we compare the conditions in which Ukrainians live in the Russian Federation and how they live, and how the Russians feel in Ukraine, I don't think there can be any correlation here. One more. On November 26, this year, the Russian Federation’s Duma accepted a statement acknowledging the shooting of Polish officers under Katinium. We know that until recently, the Russian authorities had denied Stalin and the NCSC's involvement in this crime. From. And that's a good step for the Russian Duma. But how should we view, for example, Bikhivna, where there was a stone before 1990 or 1989, where this crime was directed, where about 150 - 200,000 Ukrainians and not only Ukrainians were shot near Kiev? And this crime was addressed to the Germans, as it were. Then it became apparent who the author of the crime was. Demyan’s Laz, and Sandermoch, and the lion’s prisons, to London, Brigidka, Zamarstinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u21	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u22	I'm done. And a thousand prisons and camps throughout the Soviet Union. So, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament and colleagues, let's respond to these events and demand recognition of what needs to be recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u23	Mikhailo Volinec, “BUT” faction. To whom do you convey? Stepan Kupil, please, the “BUT-“Fatherhood” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u24	Stepan Kurpil, Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! In the day - to - day troubles, in this very often thoughtless pressure on the buttons, not everyone was sure to notice that the bulldozer had booked. What do I mean? The present Ukrainian authority is very often compared to a bulldozer, implying that this power, regardless of what it is, is sweeping away in its path. So apparently they became so engrossed in the power that they forgot that the mind needed to be included, even driving a bulldozer. They were so engrossed in the screeching of the cartilage. And it took for entrepreneurs to get up and point out that more intelligence was needed. I think that if there is no longer a desire to listen to the people to whom the new authorities seem to have committed themselves to building a country, there is no desire to listen to the right thoughts of opposition, and they have been very much heard during the discussion of the Tax Code. Everything was marked with, you know, some inspiration, with smiles, with ridicule. Now who's making fun of who? Make fun of yourself because you're completely incapable of accepting a document. Here my colleague Ivan Popescu has just reported on the seemingly enormous success of Ukrainian power in the international arena. I'd like to land it a little bit and take note of yesterday's statement by the representative of the European Parliament. In particular, I would like to refer to the statement made by the Head of the Parliamentary Cooperation Committee of Ukraine, the EU, in the European Parliament of Paul Koval, that the Resolution on Ukraine, which was adopted by the European Parliament on 25 November, is the last chance for the Ukrainian government. In addition, there was a very resonant statement by the Secretary of the Venice Commission, Thomas Markert, that everything in Ukraine should be in accordance with the Constitution. He noted that changes in the Constitution had taken place in the wrong way. Because I quote, "These procedures change democratically."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u26	That is, the Supreme Council should approve the changes to the Constitution by two thirds of the votes cast. This was not the case in Ukraine. The Constitution was amended by a decision of the Constitutional Court. So in bulldozers, respected colleagues, we are neither in Europe nor in Ukraine far away.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The statement has been completed. For proposals that require study and decision-making in public institutions, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Since the name John Popescu was mentioned, he is entitled to a replica. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The previous speaker mentioned me, and because of this prism he drew attention to the speech of one of our colleagues who works in the European Parliament and its evaluation. But in my speech, I pointed out that, for the first time in the history of the relationship between the European Union and Ukraine, the MEP, I mean not a separate MP, but the whole European Parliament, for the first time, was invited by our country to join the European Union! Why did the previous authorities not do so? Haven't you been able to do that? We've done it. This is our common success, the Ukrainian state. And that's what you need to pay attention to, not touch some of the comas there. And I know that representatives of our opposition are constantly going to the European Parliament and trying to bring in the negative. If we are one state, we must work together to make Ukraine a member of the European Society. Thank you. If you are European, you will do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Wednesday's issues. December 1st. We now have to consider with you three instruments relating to ratification: this is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Spain on the Settlement and Sorting of Labour Migration Flows between the Two States. [[Registration number 0187]] There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:35:47]] For 267 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Kolomietz Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the European Integration Committee Vecerko Volodymyr Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u30	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is being brought to your attention by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Spain on the Settlement and Arrangement of Labour Migration Flows between the Two States. Ukraine's draft law has been drafted for the purpose of ratifying the Agreement between Ukraine and Spain on the regulation and organization of labour migration flows between the two States, which was signed on 12 May 2009 in Madrid. The agreement has been made, as I said, to regulate labour migration flows that exist between the two states, to create legal guarantees, to effectively implement labour migrants' rights, to prevent illegal labour migration, and to deepen cooperation between the two countries and to establish friendship. The agreement defines the categories of employees who will have the right to employment, the order of reporting employment offers; the order of selection and recruitment of workers; the procedure for obtaining the necessary visa documents and residence permits and employment permits; the conditions of work and social security for workers; the order of employees in the country of origin; the special positions relating to seasonal workers; and the order of cooperation between competent and authorized contracting authorities in the implementation of the agreement. The bodies implementing this agreement from the Ukrainian side are: Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, State Employment Centre, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The conclusion of the agreement will contribute to the legitimate employment and social protection of Ukrainian citizens working in the territory of Spain, citizens of Spain working in the territory of Ukraine, as well as to the increased cooperation between the competent and authorized authorities of Ukraine and Spain in the field of labour migration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee is the first deputy head of the Committee on European Integration Večko Volodymyr Mikolajovic. No, it's another committee. Dear colleagues, here is the positive conclusion of the committee that proposes to support the bill. Is there a need to discuss? Sign up. Two for, two against. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we ratify often agreements that are parity in terms of convenience. It seems to me that this agreement is more favourable to Ukraine than to Spain, because here, in fact, on a level of pay, the workers of another country are treated with non-discrimination according to what conditions are in the host country. And it is clear that when Spain has many Ukrainian citizens who work and many fewer Spaniards work in Ukraine, this is a bargain that is convenient for us. And I would like to emphasize two positions that I think give us the right to support without reservation. This article 6 of the Treaty states: “Employers use the rights and benefits afforded by the legislation of the enacting State without any form of discrimination.” And secondly, “The salaries of employees and their working conditions are determined in each employment contract in accordance with the provisions of valid collective agreements or in the absence of them according to the legislation applicable to employees of the same profession and qualifications who are citizens of the receiving party.” It's very convenient for us because you understand very well that people who work at the same job have the same qualifications, but because they are a citizen of another state, they have much less pay. [[For example, in Spain, Italy, or Greece]] This agreement forces the employer to pay our employees the same salary as for the resident, for the citizen of that country. In this case, Spain. I think it's absolutely positive and it's worth supporting this deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u33	Yes, please, Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u34	Thank you. The sand, the faction of the regions. The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between Ukraine and Spain on the regulation and organization of labour migration flows between the two states. The agreement provides for the establishment of categories of employees who will have the right to employment, the arrangements for the interaction of the authorized authorities of the employment, selection and recruitment of workers, the receipt of the necessary documents for housing and employment, the establishment of working conditions and social security for workers, their return to the country of origin, and special provisions for seasonal workers. In our opinion, and I can say very clearly, because I have a lot of people working in the district alone in Spain and Portugal, the adoption of the Agreement will contribute to the legal employment and security of our citizens of Ukraine, first of all. Of course, the rights of the Spanish citizens who work for us in Ukraine will also be guaranteed. But generally, the citizens of Spain, they do business. And this is also our approach to ensuring their rights. A general conclusion. As a result of the review of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Spain on the Settlement and Sorting of Labour Migration Flows between the two States, the Party of the Regions considers it appropriate to support and propose to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u35	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Spain on the regulation and organization of labour migration flows between the two States. [[Registration number 0187]] Please vote. [[10:43:29]] For 294 The law is passed. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea on mutual protection of classified information is under consideration. [[Registration number 0184]] There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:44:05]] For 281 Thank you. 281, decision taken. Reported Deputy Head of the Security Service, Rodzko Volodymir Mihajlovich. Please. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Parliament has before it a draft Ukrainian law ratifying the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Equatorial Guinea on mutual protection of classified information. The draft of this international treaty was prepared by the Ukrainian Security Service as a specially mandated public authority in the field of State Secret Service on the basis of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 14 March 2007 to create conditions for further development of cooperation between Ukraine and Equatorial Guinea in the economic, scientific and technical, military and law enforcement spheres through mutual protection of the classified information of the parties. The agreement was signed on December 17, 2009, in Kiev, which is consistent with international practice, ensures an equal partnership between the parties, obliges them to take the necessary measures to protect secret information. According to articles 2 and 32 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secret and Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, this treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is in agreement with all interested ministries and offices and has received a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine according to the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. By order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 29 September of this year, an international agreement has been made for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ratification of the agreement does not entail the adoption of new, or the correction of existing legislative acts by Ukraine, and after taking effect it will contribute to the improvement of the effectiveness of Ukraine's mutually beneficial cooperation with the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Taras Cranovil, First Deputy Head of the Committee in Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u38	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague of the Ukrainian National Deputies regarding the Law on Ratification of the Agreement, considered this issue and unanimously recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be supported. Regarding the entire scope of these laws, these agreements on mutual protection of information, classified information, limited access information. In our time at the committee meeting, we asked the Ukrainian Security Service with a proposal that we establish a complete framework, a number of countries, key entities with which Ukraine should sign such agreements, where we have relevant issues that can be referred to in confidential ways. And the Ukrainian Security Service has given this information to the Supreme Council at its own time, and today we can gladly say that we are gradually, step by step, fully mastering this sector, this direction, and we are totally filling in on the world map with those countries where we are exchanging such documentation, these agreements. In this case, as regards Equatorial Guinea, questions may arise as to whether we have such a large volume of information? Obviously not large, but even separate contracts that are being prepared require separate visits, separate exchanges of trade information from government structures. plus consular information, require adequate protection and appropriate conditions for dealing with documents to be taken. These are obligations on both sides. In this case, regardless of the small volume of communication, it's somehow a necessary agreement, it's agreed by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration without notice. The National Security and Defence Committee recommends support, the Regulatory Committee sees no warnings, the Budget Committee sees no additional costs, plus clearly, so the Ukrainian Security Service confirms that there is no additional budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u39	Thank you. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Equatorial Guinea on Mutual Protection of Secret Information, Registration No. 0184. Please vote. [[10:49:23]] For 308. The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Kabmin and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Mutual Protection of Secret Information, registration number 0185, is under consideration. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[10:49:56]] For 219 Offer supported. Please, Deputy Chief of Security, Vladimir Mihajlovich Porodsko. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! With the aim of creating legal frameworks for deepening cooperation between Ukraine and Libya in the economic, scientific and technical, military and law enforcement spheres, on 26 May 2009 the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan, Arab Jamahiriya on Mutual Protection of Secret Information was signed in Tripoli. The preparation of the proposed international treaty is based on the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since November 26, 2008. The agreement obliges the parties to take the necessary steps to protect the secret information received in the course of their cooperation and denies the equal nature of the relationship between the parties. In accordance with Ukraine's legislation, it is subject to ratification by the higher legislative body of our state, agreed by all interested ministries and authorities and received a positive conclusion by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine according to the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. The ratification is given by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 29 September of this year. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u41	Thank you. Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! The Law on Ratification of the Treaty, which is brought to your attention, practically completely repeats the previous treaty, except for certain minor nuances, where we must also reconcile matters with the national laws of the countries to which we sign contracts. But the treaty fully complies with the principles of international law, the principles of Ukrainian national law and the national interests of Ukraine. If the previous agreement was needed more for the future potentially, since Ukraine would somehow move towards Equatorial Africa and would have economic and political interests there, the Treaty with the Great Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya would certainly be of great importance. We have very serious economic interests there. We are interested in the fact that the information we are exchanging with this country did not come to third parties so that it is not used for competitive purposes by our opponents in that situation. We also have some exchange of arms, we have a lot of visits, and so we have a direct interest in ensuring that the information is properly protected so that it is not used for speculative purposes. Therefore, this agreement really has a special importance not only in the legal provision of our relationship but also in the matter of our economic interests. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs asks for the ratification and the treaty. We have conclusions from the National Security and Defence Committee, the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Similarly, it is concluded that the adoption of the Law on Ratification does not require the use of additional public budget funds. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u43	Thank you. Vote? I am voting on the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. Bill number 0185. Please vote. [[10:54:15]] For 315 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the limitation of non-planned measures for State oversight in the field of economic activity is under consideration. [[control]] Bill number 7075. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:54:55]] For a hundred and Offer supported. I invite you to present the Bill of Anatolia Griesenka, author of the bill. Get ready for King's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! One of the reasons why people are now standing on Maidan is not only the size of taxation and so on, but also the shameful practice of repressive authorities, particularly the tax administration and the tax police. And that's what upsets me the most. We will correct the errors laid down in the Tax Code. But now a bill is being proposed that deals with this issue systematically. And if there was good will in most people, would they understand why it was needed? Planning business checks actually destroy business. And this bill proposes three things: first, to establish a comprehensive, I repeat a comprehensive list of reasons for non-planned checks, so that there are no other reasons when you can push on the business. The other one. To abandon the raiders' schemes when they take a person out of the street, regardless of the physical, legal person who claims that an entrepreneur is violating legislation, and that's the basis for an extracurricular examination -- it's done by hundreds of thousands of people. And the third. An administrative responsibility is established for an official who has violated the law in carrying out an unscheduled check, or who has exceeded the deadline, or who has failed to provide documents that confirm the right of inspection, or who has not checked what has been recorded in the direction. Three simple things that people who do business create jobs for would be grateful to us. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u45	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Royal Natala Yuriovna, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the fiscal authorities in Ukraine have become, in effect, the controlling authorities. Unfortunately, such a right is formally granted to them today by our Ukrainian legislation. Since the legislation deliberately imposes “holes”, tax collectors have the right to do everything they can with entrepreneurs: warrant checks, total corruption, and lawlessness, these are the basic principles on which tax collectors are often based. One of the most popular methods of pressure on entrepreneurs is the so-called legally settled, pre-planned checks. Today, de facto, the tax authority can use this mechanism at any time, anywhere and against anyone. Everything depends on the specific interest and desire of the official, the desire to “smash” the business, and tax collectors always lack a legal basis. I believe that the Supreme Council is obliged to carry out a systematic response to these incursions of officials. Unfortunately, we have never seen from the Cabinet of Ministers a comprehensive anti-corruption bill that would create uniform and equal conditions for all business actors in our business and economic field. Regrettably, today we see that in the future, the Tax Code has also laid down a mass of corruption measures and a mass of powers of officials that enable them to act corruptly. This bill is not systematic, but is useful, and it is needed to at least partially cut the levels of desire and authority that our “punishment” bodies have today and at least partially bring them to justice. The Committee recommends that the draft law be supported in the first reading and that it be finalized systematically for the second reading. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u47	Thank you. Are there any questions you'd like to discuss? You don't? Please sign up. Yes, Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u48	Vladimir Karpuk "Our Ukraine". I understand that in this room the bill is too important, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka, will not find support for a variety of reasons. But it is a test of how well the authorities are prepared to fight corruption and how ready they are to contribute to entrepreneurial activities. The bill is too important because before the Law on Basic Principles for State Control in the Field of Economic Activity, it clearly regulates the basis for pre-planned checks. At the same time, it is excluded from the law that individuals and legal persons should be asked to violate the law - enforcement requirements of the subject as a basis for unscheduled checks. Because it is clear that for a large number of control organs with a few dozen, there are no complications in finding another complainant. I mean, one of them got caught, got him to write a claim on another. And that's why it's too important. In addition, the bill introduces the content of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Responsibility of Officials for Violations of Law on Unplanned Inspections. This is also a good moment, a good position to fight both corruption and abuse in this area. In general, we need to adopt the law as a basis, work together, and this will be really effective help for entrepreneurs who are currently running on Maidan and combating pre-planned tests as a means of pressure on businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u49	Yes. From factions that didn't register. Chechtev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The President has a number of comments on the Tax Code bill. But there is a need to be positive that, to date, there has been a space for compromise comments and adoption directly in the sessional room, as small business representatives in their majority have started to speak not only from their own small business but to see the whole country. I think it's a normal place to compromise, and now there are those comments to be made by the President in the Hall. There are representatives of small business and entrepreneurship. Therefore, so that we do not make any local laws, and in the body of a large law of the Tax Code there will be a reflection and a solution to the problem that Anatolia Ivanovich has raised, it must indeed be addressed. I think in the Tax Code, we're with entrepreneurs, the sessional room will respond positively to the President's comments. We will vote, and the problem will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u51	Baby, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u52	Oleg Lazko. I think that the Tax Code, which we're obviously going to consider tomorrow with the President's remarks, will be not only cosmetic changes and observations that will essentially not solve anything, but also those that will actually enable people who are involved in small and medium-sized businesses to work. The law that we are currently considering gives this opportunity. Because millions of people all over the country are protesting not only the rise in taxes on small and medium-sized businesses by the current government. They are primarily protesting against the cable system in which they are forced to work. Where bribes, including taxpayers, are much more than the taxes that these people pay to the budget. I think it is necessary to exclude this notion from our legislation as “planned checks” by representatives of small and medium-sized businesses. A person has to pay once a year taxes and forget about everyone in the world — the firemen, the taxpayers, the sansation, and the devils who walk with them. This is called a simplified tax system. Everything else is from the wicked one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of non-planned measures on State oversight in the field of economic activity. [[control]] [[Registration number 7075]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:04:40]] For 105 The decision is not supported. The bill is rejected. A draft law on the National Liaison Commission of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 3043]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:05:12]] For 209 Offer supported. This is Vitaly Terentiyovich Korge reporting, please. Get ready for the Morocco Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Ukrainian National Liaison Commission Act of August 6, 2008 is under consideration. The draft law proposed that the principles of work, authority and responsibility of the National Liaison Commission should be defined. But it was a very relevant state at the time of drafting and registering the bill, that is, in mid-2008. In time, some of the provisions of the bill were discussed in other bills adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was also influenced by the recent decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to abolish political reform on 8 December 2004. Furthermore, in its November 27, 2009, opinion on the Transport and Communications Committee, it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be returned to the authors for further work. In view of what I have said, as one of the authors of this bill, I fully agree with this conclusion. And I ask the Supreme Council to return this bill for further work. That is, rereading the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u55	Thank you. Have a seat. From the committee, the head of the Transport and Liaison Subcommittee, Yuri Mikolaiovich Moroko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! The Transport and Communications Committee considered, at its meeting, the draft Law on the National Communications Management Commission, registration No. 3043, submitted by the People's Deputies Korž Vitali Terentievich and Zviric Roman Mihajlović. The draft proposes that the status of the National Commission, including its powers, composition and form be regulated at the legislative level. The meeting noted that it had been two years since the bill was registered. Many of the realities and relevance of the bill have changed in this case and need to be finalized. The Cabinet of Ministers, NCRS, Ministry of Transport and Communications, Chief Scientific and Expert Office agreed. In the light of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council submit a bill to the authors for finalization. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u57	Thank you. As we can see, the position is understandable. Let us probably listen to the proposal of the drafters of the bill and to the conclusion of the committee. That's the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And we're going to make the decision to send Bill 3043 on the National Liaison Commission of Ukraine to the authors. Please vote. [[11:09:09]] For 274 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the establishment of additional guarantees for citizens to receive information in the event of appeals to public authorities and local self-government]] Registration number 7015. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:09:46]] For 203 Offer supported. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please, 2 minutes. Pauline, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u58	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I looked at today's agenda and a very interesting agenda when we ratified two secret-information agreements, which since last week began to be published on the famous site Wikileaks of all classified information in the range of 252,000 different kinds of documents, a thousand of which will apply to Ukraine. In fact, my bill also refers to information, information that no Ukrainian citizen can get; information that Ukrainian nationals cannot even receive. Yesterday, Parliament approved the Public Information Protection Act in its first reading. My bill, which was introduced five months ago, is somewhat similar to that of the law. But what is the key difference? See if a Ukrainian citizen can learn about the property of officials, their property, any information relating to the expenditure of the Ukrainian State Budget, if even at the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy, the government authorities refuse to provide such information. Today, for the opposition, it is not the only tool to control the power that is in place. We've been deprived of any means of control: the accounting office, the Attorney General's Office, the law enforcement system. Everything belongs to the authorities, they control themselves. And that's why access to public information is a question number one, both for Ukrainian citizens and for national MPs to exercise their powers. In view of this, I ask for the support of this bill, and part of the provisions of this bill I ask you to take into account when adopting the second reading of the Access to Public Information Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u59	Thank you. Edward Ivanovich Pavlenko, Committee on Human Rights, National Smaller and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! On 3 November 2010, at its meeting, the Committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Yatsenuk. [[on the establishment of additional guarantees for citizens to receive information in the event of appeals to public authorities and local self-government]] [[Registration number 7015]] The project is designed to amend the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act, the Anti-Corruption Act, the National Deputy of Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. The committee supported the idea of providing additional guarantees to citizens to obtain information when they called on the authorities and local government, and they also made a number of comments on the proposed changes. In particular, attention was drawn to the fact that the novels proposed by the bill are not always aimed at establishing additional guarantees to ensure that citizens exercise their constitutional right of recourse. Among the changes proposed by the bill are some that are already provided for in existing legislation. Therefore, the bill needs to be further developed with regard to the requirements of legislation, namely, to avoid duplication of the same provisions in different laws. Committee members also noted that the proposed changes to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act were not worthwhile, since the Act of 1 January of the following year would become invalid. The main scientific and expert office concludes with a number of comments to the bill and recommends that the bill be rejected as a result of the plenary session. The findings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine point to some violations of the rules governing the drafting of laws and the basic requirements of legislation. Our committee thinks it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u61	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u62	can't be supported. At the same time, the purpose of the bill is to put in place a more effective mechanism to ensure the right of citizens to appeal. In view of this, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the basis of a first reading review of the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u63	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Let's sign up. Yes, please, Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u64	I ask you to pass the word to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u65	Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill as a document that strategically continues with the Supreme Council and, in particular, the Andrew Shevchenka bill, groups of other deputies, so that the authorities of the state and local self-government do not simply give information to citizens, but are responsible for not providing such information and are equally well aware that trying to find any other formula not to respond to citizens' appeals would be personalized and administratively appreciated. I'm giving you two examples. When I was the head of the commission of inquiry on the activities of the young team of Chernevski, I am in a position for which I voted most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine only when I came to the prosecutor's office, that is, I write a statement, I have no answer, I appeal again. There is no answer. So I'm going to the D.A.'s office, and only after that did I get the information. For example, on the regular schedule of KMDA, how many people work there. I couldn't figure out how many people work in the service of Chernewicki, at the expense of the budget. I couldn't find out the basics that the D.A. was investigating today, because for two years she wasn't given instructions to investigate, they were silent, and now they're giving instructions to investigate: land issues; oh, I'm sorry, killing people actually. Because bookstore managers. We have a woman who died, testified that she was wanted. She was threatened. I gave the prosecution a statement that members of the Chernobyl bloc had been threatened, and the woman died, the district attorney's office replied to me that "there's nothing to touch." So, friends, every civil servant has to understand that it's not a game he's playing when he's sworn by a civil servant, but he's responsible for what he's doing, and turning a citizen, it's the same responsibility as any action he should do. So I think it's a good idea. We are now in the first reading of Arsenius Yatsenyuk's Bill, and then, for the second reading, we are drafting a bill on access to information -- and we are voting on a basic bill in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u67	Please, Karpuk. The Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u68	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, well, I am, frankly, very surprised by the position of the committee. You know, actually, what about citizens not to support is that they're used to hearing in the session room. But even when it comes to national MPs, the committee decided not to support it. What is this really about? These are three basic provisions of this bill. The first refers to citizens' conversions, the second refers to the responsibility of underprivileged officials who allow themselves either improperly or totally openly to ignore citizens' appeals; and the third, to turn national MPs. As for ordinary citizens, respectable colleagues, well, even in the Public Information Act, you can't decide everything. We have a special Act on Citizens’ Appeal. Well, we can't just give up that law right now and just-just think that we're going to be in some new law shaping new standards, leaving old norms in the old law. Either you have to radically change them, or you have to, of course, cancel the law at all. In view of these circumstances, I think that the first paragraph should be perfectly accurate in the Citizens' Appeal Act. As for the law on, let's say, the responsibility, the fight against corruption, yes, I agree: from January 1st we should have a new package of anti-corruption legislation. But, dear ones, we were supposed to be his mother last year! And it's still not clear whether we're going to have it on January 1st and what's January 1st, which is the year. And finally, last of all, as far as the national MPs are concerned. Which one of us in the session room did not have to face a total of outright deductions from government authorities? If not even the head of the body, but a fifth deputy, writes a general note, stamping for each national deputy, even, of course, confusing the surnames, because there is a common ring, you know: they write everyone off, they can't write everyone off, and one national deputy comes up with an answer instead of another national MP. For that to happen, let us at least pay attention to ourselves. And the commitments that we have to make to our electorate, this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u70	The dry one conveys the word of Pope John, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u71	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The idea offered by our colleague Yatzenuk, of course, is good, but there are some observations. An analysis of the proposed bill's provisions suggests that some of them duplicate the provisions of the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act. But there is one position that I would like to draw the attention of all of our colleagues. It is not possible to support a requirement that requires that the part of the application be given at each point of the application, or that the complaints be answered separately with the same number and sequence. This is paragraph 4 of the fourth article. Part 1 of article 19. Because it is more like a methodical recommendation, rather than a normative reference, and it creates an unwarranted restriction for those who respond to the written text of the reply. Each one of us who reads his own mail received a call from, so - called, lawyers with 10, 15 and even 20 requests at once: to appeal to the prosecutor’s office, the D.A., and so on and so forth. If we accept this, each of us and our assistants will turn into a copy machine. There are other points. The same applies to the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of National Deputies. But the nuance is that it is proposed to amend the Anti-Corruption Law. I want to remind you that the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act has already taken effect. And he was put into action from the first. And it's going to go into effect in 2011. So there goes the duplication. Taking into account the recommendations of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, the inter-national relationship that recommends sending for work, as well as the conclusion of the scientific and expert management of the Party of Regions, will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u72	The discussion is over, let's be clear. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of additional guarantees for citizens to receive information in the event of appeals to the authorities of the State and local self-government. Registration number 7515. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:22:07]] For-93 It's a bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please show by factions. The Party of Regions is 0, Fatherland is 50, Our Ukraine is 41, non-fractional is 2, and the rest are not supported. The bill was rejected. A draft regulation on measures to curb the rise in food prices is under consideration. [[Registration number 7076]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:22:58]] For 210 Supported. Reports the author of the bill Olga Borisovna Bodnar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u73	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko's Block of Yulia – Fatherland. Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, honourable chairman! Notice, 210 present in the Parliamentary Hall against the issue of price increases. Every person who listens to us and sees us on his own wallet every day feels the result of an activity of power in the direction of improving life now, I mean unprecedented in the last years of rising prices now. This was not the case for 15 years, since food has grown, utility tariffs have increased, and posters have been written all over Kiev: Please buy shoes for 500 dollars in a five - month schedule. People are good at what we've been through! People will no longer have what to eat or what to walk in. The flour, which cost about three 50-pound bracelets a kilo last year, is now nearly five. Oil was 9 gr. 80, now it's 11.90, eggs are 4-5, now it's 10 gr. And life-saving foods like potatoes, milk, and Greeks, they've traveled a half-and-a-half time. Prices don't just go up every day, they go up in the morning. The Greek situation is not that funny, but it is something you want to cry about. After the President's promise to settle this issue in a day, it's been more than two months since the Greeks were either out of shops at all, or the price is 15 dollars and above. Gradually, prices are being raised for other grains. The absence of an adequate response by the authorities to these processes in the face of a steady increase in wages, an unwarranted increase in housing and utility tariffs is essentially a genocide in relation to their own people. The project proposed by you is designed to support the population in terms of price increases and to stabilize the price situation on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u75	The conduct of pricing policy refers to the constitutional powers of Kabmin. The Government itself, in accordance with the Law on Prices and Prices, shall determine the list of products, goods and services of the State, fixed, regulated prices and tariffs to which the relevant authorities of the State have approved. And it defines the authority of government authorities in the area of price control. Therefore, the project proposes recommending that Kabmina develop, implement, within a monthly period, state price regulation for emergency food products, and ensure constant monitoring of prices for such products and an operational analysis of the consumer market price situation. Controlling the implementation of this decree will place economic policy on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please note that it was only for two months before this serious document, important and relevant, was considered, as I submitted it. It was registered on September 1st, today it was December 1st. So, of course, I'm asking you to make some changes in the text, and after the first part, write, "Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers," and then after the text. Thank you for your attention. Please support, fellow citizens, note how they will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u76	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u77	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 16 November 2010 considered a draft regulation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures to curb the rise in food prices, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Bodnar. Committee members noted that the Cabinet Order of the Ministers of Ukraine of 25 12.1996, on the establishment of the powers of executive authorities and city council executives on price regulation, tariffs, a list of products and services that are crucial. [[No. 1548]] The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, since 13.06.2002, approved the list of socially significant goods and services under constant monitoring of prices and tariffs in the consumer market. [[No. 803]] Thus, the draft regulations are practically regulated by valid legal acts. [[Registry 7076]] That is why the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures to curb the rise in food prices at the earliest possible cost, which was taken by the national deputy of Ukraine Bodnar to reject. [[Registry 7076]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u78	Thank you. Let's sign up for the performance. Yavorowski Wolodymir, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u79	And I can't stop him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u80	And we won't stop. Pavlovsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u81	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Dear fellow MPs! Last Friday, the official figures of the State Department were published that the average salary in October fell compared to the previous month. The decline in real wages in our country over the past three months has been 6.4 percent. And this is because in these last months, there has been a significant increase in the price of emergency food. And that's because there's a disgraceful phenomenon like the debt of a salary of one and a half billion dollars. In fact, wages, pensions, scholarships are frozen. And I would like to remind the vast majority that there is still a candidate for President Viktor Yanukovic's programme: “I guarantee price stability for basic products that are part of the consumer basket of food essentials such as bread, oil, milk, flour, sugar and so on.” So I think that the authorities and the deputies here who represent it should be supported first of all by this decision, whose author is the opposition, Olga Bodnar. Because the government has recently lost control over food markets. And there's been a significant price increase, first of all, on the first items of necessity -- two and three times compared to the last crisis year. I think we need backup. This is a very important social decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u82	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u83	Vladimir Karpuk "Our Ukraine". I think that all those who watch the broadcast from the Supreme Council Hall have found it too cynical to conclude that we have everything right, everything has been settled long ago -- and the legislative acts and regulations of the Cabinet. Unfortunately, prices are rising too fast. How fast we haven't seen in years. Mr. Andrey said that in recent months, starting in July, the average wage in Ukraine declined by 6.8 percent. I'll also point out that for the first time in years, this is a real decline in wages. Counting the price of first - need products is a very sad picture for more than 12 million people in Ukraine who are outside the poverty line. And so, really, there is no improvement in life today and there can be no improvement. Because from 60 percent, or 100 percent, of all households' income from statistics is the cost of medicine and food, plus another quarter. Practically, humans are unable to meet their own needs. So this is a short one, and it practically gives the Cabinet of Ministers the task of developing and approving an effective mechanism of government price regulation. Even though I look at the work of this Cabinet of Ministers, I don't believe that this decision will achieve its goal, but at least the response of the Supreme Council to the rapid rise in prices that is today will be, I think, adequate. And we need to support this bill, take it not only as a foundation, but also support it in general, it's short and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u84	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, yesterday during the vote, when we approved the order of the day, factions joining the opposition unanimously did not support the bill by the number, by the order of the day, 7264. Write down if someone is really concerned about the problem of haloped or uncontrollable price increases in the consumer market. The law is called: “To amend some Ukrainian legislation on pricing”. [[on improving consumer market price control]] Not by decrees can we regulate, not price controls in the consumer market, but by legislative acts that will be required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! For example, it impresses me, I don't know how my friends like most, it impresses me that you started quoting election slogans, the program, it's good, because who you're going to treat, you're going to get away with it. Get wisdom, learn, improve, and remember: all you're saying here is about gas trouble, about prices, is the Ukrainian people's payment for adventure, non-professionalism, for the populism of the previous government. When stupid: the gas was sold first, then the gas was bought, then resold again, now it has to be returned. When about 16 billion people went to the Pension Fund, now we don't understand how to close the holes. So I warn you, this bill, number 7264, will be considered in the session room. It clearly regulates the role of the state, the role of the public, the control of prices in the consumer market. This bill amends and adds to the Code of Laws on Administrative Violations. So there's an attempt to address this issue in terms of complexity and systemicity. And people ask us, can we somehow stop prices? We are capable of but legislative acts, not political slogans and slogans.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u86	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the basis of the draft regulation on measures to curb the growth of food prices. [[Registration number 7076]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:36:01]] For 158. The offer is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u87	The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, “Fatherland” – 94, “Our Ukraine” – 35, Communists – 26, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 2. Overruled. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the provision of orphanages and children deprived of parental care]] [[Registration number 4292]] The author of the Ukolov bill. But he asked us to withdraw the bill. I'm voting on a motion to withdraw, a motion to withdraw from the bill number 4292, on the proposal of the author. Please vote. [[11:37:14]] For-300 Yes, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the official publication of acts of authorities and officials of local self-government]] [[Registration number 4638]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:37:56]] For 203 Offer supported. Please report to Kemenyash Alexander Mikhailovich, prepare Traduk. There's no Kemenesh. From the Committee of Mikola Fedorovich Traiduk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy Kemenyash. [[on the official publication of acts of authorities and officials of local self-government]] The draft Law proposes to amend article 59 of the Ukrainian Law “On Local Self-Government in Ukraine” by supplementing its position on the procedure for the official publication of acts of organs and officials of local self-government. This applies to the publication in official publications of printed media of relevant authorities and the posting on official websites of local self-government bodies on the Internet. The committee agrees with the proposals proposed by the author and recommends a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading to be adopted as a basis. We also inform you that, on the basis of the bill in question, the Legal Policy Committee, which in its opinion supports the bill and proposes to adopt it on a basis, and the Budget Committee, which believes that, in the light of the review, the bill will have an impact on the spending of the local budgets and may be adopted taking into account the adoption of the budget, the budget requirements for the following year, which is virtually impossible. We hope that as we prepare for the second reading, we will make adjustments to the date that the law takes effect. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Let's sign up. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u90	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to amend article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. [[on the official publication of acts of authorities and officials of local self-government]] Right now it says that acts are being brought to the known population, not written at any time or how they are being done. And things happen like this right now I'm looking at Odessa. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day of the prosecutor's office, and I welcome them all to Procurator's Day, including those decent people who have violated a criminal case in a town-type village where one quarter of the votes are better than three quarters. So there was just a coup d'état in the Gulf. And there, five people were accepted instead of 16. The session started. If people were to report it as provided for in this law. And here it is: in the 14-day deadline to inform citizens, the local community, and also on the Internet, there probably wasn't what was going on right now. The district attorney's office has committed a crime, very serious. But now there are powers and attempts through the court, let's say, in that case, it breaks. I'm the one little example of what's happening on the ground today in Ukraine. But it is that there was no information, we had no obligation to self - government agencies, the term and the media to prove decisions, that was a brutal violation of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. As a result, this bill is highly needed. And it should be accepted as soon as possible in both the first and the second readings, only by further processing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u91	Shewchenko Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u92	Colleagues! The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko will support this bill. And we urge the entire session room to do the same. We'll support him for one simple reason. We're still, unfortunately, a country of restricted authority, where a bureaucrat official has turned his back on his fellow citizens by a wall that's impenetrable. The time has come for this wall to be torn down or destroyed. The sooner the better. And I'll also remind you that yesterday there was a special statement by an organization called Transparency International, which deals with what promotes the idea of transparency of power around the world. And it specifically draws the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian authorities to the fact that we need to implement legislation as quickly as possible, which will make our authority more open and transparent. Why the Yulia Timoshenko Block supports as an ideology, an openness of power. Because we think that every citizen has the right to have as much information as possible about everything relating to budget spending. And we also think that all the information that's in the hands of officials, the apiori, should be available to all citizens, except for cases specifically marked by law. So I think we should thank the drafters of the bill, the deputy Kemenash, and the committee that started the work on this bill, and support it. I will also add that in the future, the law on access to public information and the new edition of the Information Act will also address the issue of public information by the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u93	Thank you. The discussion is over. Chechtev, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, the law really deserves attention. And we wanted to vote in faction. But it is so convincing that the Deputy Prime Minister of the opposition or the Tenev Government, Yuri Anatolievich, has made such an argument that we cannot fail to agree with his professional point of view, and we support his professional point of view. He's a professional, there's no politics, we believe him. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich, for persuading us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u95	I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the Ukrainian Local Self-Government Act. [[on the official publication of acts of organs and official local self-government]] [[Registration number 4638]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:45:26]] For 105 The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, two BUT factions and NUNS have requested a recess but are ready to make a statement immediately. Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u96	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! I would like to make a statement on the violation by Ukraine's individual people's deputies of the sixth convocation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and of Ukraine's laws on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the leadership of the Supreme Council! We would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine's individual national deputies violate the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, combining the mandate of the national deputy with the work in the executive structures of power. It's: Vasilev is Presidential Administration of Ukraine, Deputy Chief of State; Gorbal is the Lviv Regional Government Administration, Head; Demiscan is the State Service for Ukrainian Roads; Giga is the Provincial Regional Government Administration, Head; Zločevski is the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine; Illiasov is the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, Head; Kalietnik is the State Customs Service of Ukraine, Head; Salamatin is the State Export and Import Company for Military and Special Purpose Services; Fesenko is the Supreme Special Court for Civil and Criminal Affairs, Head; Shershun is the State Committee for Forest Agriculture of Ukraine. [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[The Communist Party of Ukraine]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [["Block of Lithuania"]] Article 78 of the Ukrainian Constitution stipulates that the Ukrainian National Deputies exercise their powers on a permanent basis and cannot have another representative mandate or public service. Part one of the first article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies establishes that the Ukrainian People's Deputies do not have the right to be a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Head of the Central Executive Authority and to engage in any other work other than parliamentary paid work except for teaching, scientific and creative activities, as well as medical practice in the discharge of the duties of the People's Deputy. According to paragraph 25 of the first part of article 78 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to appeal to the court for the early termination of the powers of the national deputy in the event that he fails to comply with the requirement of non-compliance with the parliamentary mandate with other activities. That is why we demand that the question of depriving the deputies of the parliamentary mandate be finally put to the vote and voted in the Chamber or that the Head of the Supreme Council refer to the court for a term of suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies who have failed to comply with the requirement of non-conformity of the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please. The point is clear. What's there to finish? Have a seat, please. A draft Act amending article 55 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is under consideration. [[on clarifying the amount of council's headpower to reconcile its activities]] [[Registration number 4669]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:49:42]] For 186 Offer supported. Please, the bill's author is Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. Prepare Traduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u98	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I understand that today is the day of the rejected bill under the Rules, and the fate of this bill is the same as all previous ones. Yet, nevertheless, I propose to listen to the argument, perhaps common sense, even though a little bit in this room can win. This is part of article 55 of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which was adopted in 1997. It prohibits the heads of district and district councils from taking any position, including on public grounds. This means that such individuals cannot hold elected positions in the unification of citizens, that is, in local political parties. This article is not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, the 36th article of which allows for unification in the political party and other citizens' unifications. It is incompatible with the State Service Act, the Service in Local Self-Government, which does not impose such restrictions on membership in political parties or public organizations. Moreover, this rule means that a party member has no right to hold an election position in a party, which is complete absurdity and gross interference in the internal affairs of the party. Finally, I think it's natural when the leader of the local election-winning organization is headed by the appropriate local self-government body, but today the Law on Local Self-Government prohibits it. In this connection, another section of article 55 of the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, which does not contain such a ban, is proposed for your consideration, making exceptions to election positions in citizens’ associations, including in political parties. This will allow the leaders to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u99	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u100	This will allow the heads of relevant local political parties that have become members of the respective district or district councils to claim the positions of heads of these councils, which I think is in line with the Local Self-Government Act, which provides for a purely party way of putting candidates to district and district councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, from the Committee of Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. The committee agrees that the proposed amendments to part three of article 55 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine should be made, according to which the heads of regional, district, district councils may combine their service activities with the work of civil servants in election positions in the community. This actually reinforces the de jure status that the heads of local councils have in their local regional party organizations, because these positions are usually chosen by party leaders. In addition, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have reached positive conclusions on this bill. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 55 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine when considering the first reading to take all constructive comments and suggestions into account in preparing for the second reading. [[on clarifying the amount of council's headpower to reconcile its activities]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? No, it's not. Then I put to the vote the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 55 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on clarifying the amount of council's headpower to reconcile its activities]] Registration number 4669. Vote. [[11:54:39]] For 104 Although, in fact, it says what might and should have been supported. The bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, you and I have two bills left to consider, and the rest of you are included in the agenda. If you'd agreed to let us work all the time and finish. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u104	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u105	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u106	I'm freezing myself, Yuri Anatolyovich, just like you. That's why I want to finish faster. The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 6308, is under consideration. [[for counterfeiting documents, printing, stamps and forms]] There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:55:44]] For-189 Supported. Volodymyr Romanovich Moisik will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u107	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! The bill prepared by our colleague Victor Shemchuk is about amendments to the Criminal Code that refer to the counterfeiting and use of forged documents. Dear colleagues, you know that today everyone is falsified by the certificates of a national deputy, an assistant, on behalf of the committees of the table to all the figures of the DAI, a reference to the fact that he worked or did not work on the enterprise and so forth. To this day, the Criminal Code of Ukraine has no definition of what the official document understands and what to understand about the document that gives rise to criminal responsibility. The Supreme Court of Ukraine generalised the case law and concluded that judicial errors related to the imperfection of the Criminal Code in the definition of the concept of “official document” and “document”. This issue is also addressed by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to give an interpretation of the term. For the first time, the author took the initiative to outline legislation and determine what to understand by document and official document, which gives rise to criminal responsibility. The legal authorities share the author’s view that the problem exists, that there is no definition, but that the author’s proposal is not successful. The Attorney General's Office supports the idea that a legislative definition of an official document should be given, but points to some shortcomings in the bill. The Law Enforcement Committee supports the bill in its first reading. And please support it in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u108	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[for counterfeiting documents, printing, stamps and forms]] Registration number 6308. Please vote. [[11:58:27]] For 109 The bill is not supported, it is considered rejected. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the abolition of the tax police, registration number 7073, is under consideration. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:58:59]] For a hundred and Offer supported. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko, get ready for Gritsak. Anatoly Stepanovich, take out the militia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I think there's no doubt about it, especially those who have business, and there's a lot of people in this room that the Tax Police are now the biggest repressive machine in Ukraine. More than a police force, more than an S.B.I. Whoever doesn't have the numbers, I'll tell you. This is a strong structure that has 10,000 people -- division. Which is headed by a senior military chief, a state-of-the-art category, a colonel general. Whoever served in the army knows that the Major General in the Army is in the Division. 23 general positions. Positional salaries are higher than any other force structure. This division, black and white, has the right to arrest anyone. He arrests Kiev, takes Zitomir, holds seven months and more, inviting only once or twice for questioning, and no one is responsible. This repulsive machine was created in a way that is neither logical nor legal. You can't have a civilian structure with tax administration forming your own militia. Because then we need to form a parliamentary police force, form a land militia at the State-Coembre, and at the Antimonopoly Committee -- antimonopoly militia, and so on. That's ridiculous. I think we're mature and in the Presidential Administration, at least Portnow said that this structure should be eliminated. I think it's the right thing to do. This will in no way adversely affect the efficiency of a government machine. Because as for the formation of a tax police, these functions were performed by the IMF and the BSS in part of corruption, so they will continue to be. I propose to take such a step, and it would be a strong decision of authority that says that it is going along the path of European values and wants to do something useful for businesses and for entrepreneurs. To create jobs. Please support the first reading of this bill, which provides for the abolition of the tax police as a class.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u110	Thank you. The committee is Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the abolition of the tax police. [[Registration number 7073]] It should be noted that the idea of the bill deserves a thorough analysis. Similar legislative initiatives are systematically available for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but they do not receive the support of Ukrainian national deputies. Thus, in 10/07.2010, the Supreme Council did not adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the abolition of the tax police. [[Registration number 5336]] Since 2004, some 10 bills have been registered to date, including changes to existing legislation. In addition, the committee took into account that in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Tax Service in Ukraine on the structure of the tax police was adopted in the first reading. [[No. 6682-1]] At the same time, a working group on judicial reform was established by Presidential Decree of 17.08.2010. [[No. 820]] One of the tasks of this working group is to work out the Criminal Procedure Code with its further adoption by the Supreme Council. Thus, after considering Bill 7073, the committee essentially determines the need for its work to take into account the comments made. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u112	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Let's sign up. Please, Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u113	I give the word to Mikoli Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u114	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to this bill, in that part, that if there was a period and the tax police were somewhere in the shadow of the tax administration, it was less mentioned. This is the last period, especially in the last year -- consider it a military task force to fight other parties in business or to fight unsettling ones who have allowed themselves to remain entrepreneurs with their own position. How much information we've received in the last year, and I think there's not one national MP when both during the repressions, and in the wake of the sadbery of the night, we break into entrepreneurs' apartments, break doors, walk in and say, we're a tax police -- we can do anything in this country. I am absolutely convinced that what is happening in the country today is more evil than a violation in the area of freedom of speech, that it is evil, a violation in other areas. Because in fact, every person who does business today has no peace and confidence, because in the middle of the night they can come and arrest or exterminate some kind of document. By the way, in the context of our committee's position, she surprised me, but I have now read a comment on the Olena Lukash Tax Code, which on behalf of the President says that the President's Administration is concerned, it can be said, very concerned that the Tax Code violated the constitutional principle of innocence, since it allows taxpayers to recognize entrepreneurs before the court's decision. So you see, the President is not only against the tax police, but against the great powers of the Tax Administration. So I am convinced that the time has come when the decision to be taken has been discussed at least since 2004. The previous President did not have the courage to do so, although he promised, I think we should show this courage as a parliament. And I'm convinced that the President who claims to be administrative, not administrative, reform in public authorities, if such reform is to be done, of course, should begin with the liquidation of the tax police. I propose to support this bill -- it will be a sign to everyone, including that this institution should be eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u116	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u118	Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you very much to the National Deputy Karpuk. Dear National Deputies! As the person who analyzed all the tax police activity, I also want to say the positive things that were happening in her activities. And I want to say that in every country of the world there's a so-called financial guard, or financial intelligence, and so on, and they work together, and by the way. They're effective. And in the experience of many cases, I want to say that billions of dollars have been opened up and conversion centers that have been damaging the economy of Ukraine, behind which the tax police have been standing. Let's remember when the tax police were led by Lieutenant General King, who was our colleague then in this Supreme Council. Were there such violations? There were no such violations, and no one was bothered by the tax police at the time. Please tell me, when our colleague, Lieutenant General Roswadowski, worked with you in the same tax force, who now has no place, even though he's black and he's an Afghan frontist, there's no place for the militia in this. I ask, even though a person has experience and 120,000 people have voted for him. There's no place for bad people right now. The same King, he's unemployed now. Sandman was in charge of the investigation, and article 212, 208 was worked out. Now it's proposed, in this bill, 208, that you pass it on to the CBS. But there is no investigation at all in the Ukrainian Security Service. This has to be counterintelligence exclusively, absolutely. So we need to reform the investigation system, there needs to be a committee of our own, a committee of inquiry. Russia did it in the D.A.'s office, we can do it separately, but that's what we have to do. I believe that reform today should be, but not as it is proposed. We need to put order in order so there is no corruption in this body. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u120	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the abolition of the tax police. [[Registration number 7073]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:09:14]] For 114 The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Party of regions – not supported, BUT – 91, “Our Ukraine” – 22, Communists, People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 1. Let us go to the section “Inclusion into the agenda”. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Education Act of Ukraine (for the arrival of funds in educational institutions, institutions, organizations, enterprises, education systems, solely through a calculation account (registration number 7259), I'd like to make a statement. This is a project by a colleague of Biruk. [[12:10:11]] For-73 Not supported. Overruled. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the Law on the Prohibition of the Cabinet of Ministers on the list of paid services that may be offered to educational institutions, other institutions and institutions of the education system, which are part of the State and municipal form of property, of certain services. [[Registration number 7245]] [[12:10:54]] For-143 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u121	By factions, you can see for yourself. Well, show me, please. Party of regions – not supported, BUT – 94, “Our Ukraine” – 21, Communists – 26, non-fractional – 2. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. [[Registration number 7131]] [[on payment at birth of a child]] It's a juicy bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:11:44]] For-152. I didn't get the necessary amount. Overruled. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families. [[concerning the determination of the amount of aid]] [[Registration number 7184]] Pavlovsky’s bill. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[12:12:20]] For-144 Not supported. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Consumer Minimum Act on Consumer Basket Formation. [[Registration number 7297]] The author of the Royal Bill. [[12:12:54]] For 148 Not supported. Yes. It's a draft decree for the introduction of a moratorium on the eviction of museums from the territory of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical Cultural Reserve. [[Registration number 7381]] Author of Yavorowski. [[12:13:35]] For 116 Not supported. Draft laws on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities are under consideration. [[Registration number 4112, 4112-1]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:14:12]] For 221 Supported. Please, Sergey Sobolev, 4112 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u122	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to point out to you that it is symbolic that this bill has been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council as soon as the entrepreneurs have won the field and the terrible Tax Code is pledged. What's the bill about? In fact, a group of authors proposed to legalize a directly simplified tax system, both for representatives of small and medium-sized businesses who work for both natural and legal persons. The bill regulates those positions that are not yet regulated by the President's decree of 1999 and according to which all small businesses work today on a simplified system of taxation. This bill is exactly one of the conditions under which hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs went out on the streets of all cities and villages in Ukraine and demanded that we observe that terrible Tax Code, which actually introduced total tax checks, including the tax police, which we had not just eliminated, which allowed us to continue to pursue a bribe policy that allowed in fact to avoid taxing those who were covered by small businesses, not paying taxes, but at the expense of whom they wanted to fill this budget of Azarov, Tihypco and other authors of this Tax Code. That's why the group of authors proposed the following system. Because the minimum wage during these years is when the simplified system was introduced. Taxation has changed almost 35 times, to attach the full amount of tax to the minimum wage, which will enable the budget to be filled on one side and, on the other hand, to avoid the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u123	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u124	When those who hide behind the simplified system do not pay the tax. That is why we insisted that this bill be voted on. And this takes away a number of problems that have arisen, including in the Tax Code, which has just been dedicated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u125	Thank you. Feldaman. You don't? I can't see. Then please, the head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, Mr. Andriy Pavlovich, on both bills, the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u126	Dear National Deputies! The daily session of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy of June 15, 2010, included the consideration of two bills on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. A review of the draft Law on the Simplification of Taxation, Accounting and Reporting of Small Business Subjects by People’s Deputies Sobolev, Royal, Shadow, Velizanski, registration number 4112, dated 27.05. In 2010, the committee was transferred to a committee meeting with Ukraine’s National Deputies, the authors of the bill. With regard to the draft Law on the Simplification of Taxation, Accounting and Reporting of Small Business Subjects by Ukrainian People’s Deputies Feldman and Gayman, registration number 4112-1 of 6.10.2009, the bill was submitted by the authors. And according to the committee's decision, it was recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return it to work. Bills are not supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office for the Registration Bill 4112, it is stated that the bill has been tabled to be considered at the same time as the draft Tax Code. No support was found in the drafting committee of the Tax Code for Proposals provided by Bill 4112 and 4112-1. I want to point out that these bills are irrelevant, so I recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject them. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u127	Thank you, Andrey. We sign up for the discussion because I can see that they're desirable. Carmazin, Sobolev. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation. The president made a very correct commitment to the Code, and we warned you that there were massive violations of the Constitution. And now that we're saying that this bill isn't necessary, I want to say thank you both for Sobolev and for the Royal and the Saints and Velizhansky, for all of these people who have offered a normal way out. What is the solution? Still, the budget cannot be made on the basis of the new Tax Code. You know, because it's going to conflict with the budget code and everything. It is the duty of the State to warn citizens of the taxes that will take place in advance. And then, if you enter this code from January 1st, no matter how many observations you take into account, a loving Ukrainian citizen can fail to implement this code, given that there are other rules that conflict with this Ukrainian budget code. As a result, there will be no settled situation regarding the simplified tax system. You're not going anywhere, you're going to break article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution. That's why I would ask you to support this bill. And I'm addressing most of them today. I realize that in most people today, there are obviously no decision makers in this room. Decisions are taken outside this room. Well, that's the practice we have. But it is a very correct question that the object of taxation here is clearly shown; it is shown when businesses, including disabled businesses, are released from their salaries, thoughtless wages. The guarantees are shown at the time when the Tax Code is introduced. And I hope that it will be fair after it enters after August 15, 2011, not before, it has no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u129	Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u130	You know, I just want to give you a few digits. And I don't understand the logic of a committee that says that this bill is being revealed is not socially meaningful. Think about those words. Hundreds of thousands of people go out on the street to protest when they try to take away the simplified system, and it turns out that this bill is not socially meaningful. Since the introduction of the simplified tax system, we've had 95,000 of our citizens busy who haven't gone to the labor market, and they've started investing their own pieces in order to start their own business. Over the years, the number of these citizens has increased to 1 million, 137 thousand, who have not returned to the labour market, and they have also provided the work of 1.6 million of our fellow citizens, who are now employed and employed, fed their families, and fed their elderly parents, who have a meager pension. And the last. This bill regulates the situation where the gaming business is not on the simplified system, and it is now, and you have not banned it until now, when there are no hypermarkets on the simplified system that actually avoid taxation, when there is order with a simplified system everywhere where there is a shadow sector. At the same time, however, millions of our fellow citizens will know that they will not be thrown into the streets, and they will be guaranteed to pay. And by the way, the pay system was enlarged, and we weren't afraid to go there. If you're one and a half million in turnover, you're going to pay almost 700 dollars, but that's fair. And that's why we insisted that this bill should at least be adopted in the first reading, all the more so that there is no tax code now. And the argument that was there, let's look at it together. There is now a direct system of simplified taxation that allows people to legally work, not to go into the shadows, to pay taxes, to pay to the Pension Fund, by the way, there are direct deductions to the Pension Fund, to fill the budget and to make it possible to clearly implement all the parameters of the law that are there. Therefore, once again, a request from the drafters of the bill is accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u131	Thank you. Question completed. We'll vote. I just want to give you this interesting information. The members of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee - Terjehochin, Dubyl and others - are proposing that these bills be rejected. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Law on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:24:33]] For 101 Not supported. Overruled. I'm betting on the vote on the bill number 4112-1. The author is Feldman Alexander Borisovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:24:59]] For -6 Bills are rejected. Simple. Rejected because he did not get the required 226 votes. Because he didn't get the required 226 votes, so he was rejected. Drafts of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising are under consideration. [[Registration number 6429 and 6429-1]] At the same time, the committee head of the Shevchenka Committee asks that these bills be avoided until they have been considered by the committee. But. But Bill 6429 was introduced in. June 1st, June 15th, or 30 days later. The committee does not want to consider them, so we have every reason to consider them without waiting for the committee to decide. And we point out to the committee that it is not fulfilling its constitutional obligations. There is a proposal to consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:26:29]] For 172 Supported. Please, the author of the first bill is Mikola Fedorovich Traiduk. 6429 Bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! Well, we watch TV with you every day and we see what's happening to the commercial. We're the only ones back from the districts, and I, well, at least 10 of my voters were with these questions. And the biggest dissatisfaction of television viewers is the order of advertising. We understand that without advertising today, there will be no television. But what's happening on television today is just horror. Today, there are not one person, and we cannot watch a single broadcast to keep it from being interrupted by advertising. So if today is a show or a movie -- 90 minutes -- it goes on for about two, two and a half hours, three hours. So a group of authors are offering to make part of the second. add to article 13, paragraph 5, and complete with a new paragraph such a content in the Advertising Act of Ukraine: that when the television program is interrupted for advertising shows, the time is set for the interruption of television broadcasts for advertising. We understand that it's not very stylistically correct, but I think that in the second reading we're going to edit it, but that the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which has considered these issues, will agree with the authors and will give it an editorial that, in our opinion, is even better than ours. So we ask our viewers, for our Ukraine, to support this bill so that we can at least manage our time when these 20 minutes of advertising go by, not sit around and not look at diapers and other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u133	Thank you. Yes, please, Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, 6429-1. None. Yes, from the committee, Shevchenko. There's nothing to report, and there's nothing to report. Sign up for the discussion. Carmazine, please. Stand by later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the National Deputies and Traduk, and Feldman, and Logwinenko, and Hayman, and Bogdan, and Bondarevo, and Babayeva, who have addressed this subject. Because, today, the National Council on Television and Radioling of its advertising market control functions and how users of this commercial or film production are using today, does not do so. That's why I see that we have to make changes, obviously, where we can discipline the National Council on Television and Radio talk, and we now see that in this case we also need to call these people to order. One way of doing this is by renewing the European Convention on Transboundary Television, by which advertising should be so placed that it does not damage the integrity and content of the program. Well, if it breaks every 20 minutes, breaks up an art movie and then forgets about the movie, and 15 minutes goes by, it's obviously necessary to make changes. And the changes that are being proposed are positive, although in my opinion they're not very radical and they're not going to have much effect on these citizens. Nevertheless, they should be accepted, and the authors should thank them for offering them. With regard to the second bill, which proposes to be amended during the electoral process, where 25 percent of advertising is 20 percent, I would write it down, I think it's positive for five. [[authors: Bogdan, Baldirev and Babayev]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, these authors are proposing a 5 percent reduction in advertising during actual speech, and during the electoral process, according to 15 and 20 percent instead of 20 and 25. I think it's a step forward. That's why we have to vote for one bill and another bill because they're not antagonists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u137	Thank you. Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the Party of Regions will support this bill. Why? Because today, when you turn on the TV, there's, like, a movie, a serious movie -- years of war or some other tragedy, and all of a sudden, they break up and advertise what very delicious beer or what very beautiful diapers or, excuse me, women's bras. It's embarrassing what they're showing on these commercials. That's the first one. The other one. I sometimes watch a showman on Fridays because I don't go there anymore, because I think the purpose of this showman is to hit politicians of different political powers with my foreheads. They fight, they screw, and at this point he advertises and rejoices when 10 to 15 minutes of advertising goes by. He makes thousands of dollars every minute. And it seems like he doesn't need this transmission to say anything about Ukraine or the point of view, he needs this transfer in two hours to make more money. And so on every channel. Sometimes you talk, you talk, and you can't see what's going on, whether there's a concert or there's some serious broadcast or there's news. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I don't talk about shame anymore when kids see some commercial that advertises things that are even uncomfortable to say to each other. So not only should we limit it, but we need to be clear when advertising should be displayed, at what time, let's say, what commercials, and what's the term. Because television, after all, shouldn't be the main goal of making money on advertising. And maybe in a good show, in a rating channel, these TV channels have to be successful, of course, with the support they need, all the more so that every channel is someone's channel, some businessman's channel. That's why I'm in favour of the first, second law. And what's more, look at it over and over, and you can figure out some minutes that are entitled to commercials, not hours, or ten-minute commercials. Please support this Law on the Limitation of Television Advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u139	Tomenko, please, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! I support the two preceding speakers, and I want to tell you the following. Today we have central channels – commercial, one of the most profitable businesses in Ukraine. So if you actually analyze the profit side of how the central channels work commercially, it's really a profitable business. I think it's time to share with the people part of their respect for people who watch television and part of the social contribution they've made. Actually, two bills, that's what I'd say, a more moral thing or let's say serious, radical changes. This is the bill of Traduk, Feldman, Logwinenka and Gayman. In fact, it's a fixation when the commercial starts and when it ends. Of course, it is convenient for the audience. By the way, it's convenient for the National Council of the Company, for the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, because it's actually monitoring whether they're implementing the law or not. We as viewers see that there's still 3-4 minutes of advertising going on, we can do our jobs, and television itself knows that it's not breaking the law. So the first bill needs to be supported. The second bill, which I also support. This is a bill that actually clarifies the current norm of article 13. Because one paragraph of this article states that actual advertising should not exceed 15 percent, and the other part should contain 20. What's proposed is 15 means that we're actually going to cancel out by 5 percent, that's not that much. But it's really a step towards not being dominated by the audience, but it's a meaningful setting, let's say whether it's movies or something, you could at least look at it to the end. So I think there are reasons for both the first and the second bills to be adopted in the first reading. And then to the second reading, I agree with our colleagues, maybe to expand some of the area and think about how in this bill in general to take more seriously the commercial channels not only as channels for making advertising money, but also as channels for consumer information, or televisions. Please support the first and second bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I would like to emphasize to you that, even though they stand here as alternate bills, they are not. So we can adopt both laws, because they don't deny each other, but they complement each other. With this in mind, I am voting on the adoption on the basis of Bill 6429 of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Advertising Act of Ukraine. Please be supportive. [[12:37:10]] For 309 Thank you. And there is a proposal for a vote to support the bill number 6429-1 amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. Please vote. Vote. He's not an alternative. [[12:37:39]] For 118 Unfortunately, it's rejected. We're not going to add to the second reading, although this is the same article, we can add. I mean, if I'm not mistaken, it's to Article 13. To Article 13. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't do the errands because there's 116. But it's the same article, it won't deny it, everything will be fine. A draft Act on the definition of tariff and price policies for residential services and natural gas for the population's household needs is under consideration in 2010-2011. Bill number 7145. The author of the Bondarenko Bill. The committee didn't consider it. The committee explains that Bondarenko did not attend the meetings. But if it wasn't there, the bill was introduced in August, and we have the opportunity to look at it. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. It's been 30 days, so we'll be out of committee. [[12:39:05]] For 180. Supported. Please, Vladimir Dmitrovitch Bondarenko, please report for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u142	Vladimir Bondarenko, the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. The point is that in Ukraine today there are authorities that regulate electricity prices. And unfortunately, there is no such organ, and so far there is no authority of any other body that could, apart from the Cabinet of Ministers, address the issue of establishing at least the general rules of the game in the housing and utility market. The extraordinary price variance is caused by objective factors, well, especially the quality of the blacksmiths themselves, the quality of the nets, the length of these networks -- it puts the price off. But there must be general rules. To date, as a minimum, these rules should include such components as: accounting for services, without objective accounting, without taking into account how much is given, you cannot talk at all about setting any price. In particular, we can't talk about tariffs again if we don't know the quality of the service provided, and nobody controls it, and there's not even those parameters when citizens don't know what hot water is or hot water is 75 degrees or 45 degrees or so. So, of course, the need to create such a state body and to regulate housing and utility services issues is essential in the process of reforming housing and utilities. That's why it's another problem when we're looking at filing, maybe the Cabinet of Ministers, its authorization, then we're going to go deeper. And what's being proposed today is the first step towards putting order in housing and utilities, because today it's a completely dark zone and nobody knows how to do it, and that's why it's causing problems in the population. So please support this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u143	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? There's one. Others don't insist? Then Olga Bodnar, please. Two minutes, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u144	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherskina, Fatherskina. Dear colleagues, this bill needs to be supported, but unanimously. I want to look into the eyes of the person who doesn't vote for it, because today there's been such an increase in municipal tariffs, that it's impossible to pay even people who thought they were getting average wealth, and I don't want to talk about those people who have actually dropped their wages by 6.8 percent. Therefore, the bill states that municipal tariffs cannot exceed those established, prices and tariffs set at 31 July 2010. I think it's very humane for our citizens today who can't buy shoes for 500 bucks or a Greek for 15 bucks or pay for utility bills. And if this room now accepts the Housing Code, don't give God, with those proposals that are echoing from the present power and throwing everyone out into the frost on the street, then we'll probably get the new Ukraine that the current authorities are yelling about. Therefore, respectable citizens, pay attention to this vote. This vote will also show you how these voters vote for you or against you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u145	The discussion is over. There is a bill on the definition of tariff-priced housing policy and natural gas for the population's household needs in 2010-2011. Registration number 7145. [[12:43:35]] For-129
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u146	The factions? Please. Region Party – 6, Fatherland – 78, “Our Ukraine” – 14, Communists – 26, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 5. The bill was rejected. Let us go to the draft bill, more faithfully, of the decree establishing the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the fact that State institutions have been blocking the electoral process of political opposition. [[Registration number 7119]] Please, Sasu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The fact is that the drafter of the bill, National MP Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, is sick and the Committee on Rules, which is defined as the main issue, has not considered the matter. So there are circumstances where there is no informant and there is no one to report to. There's no one to talk to from the committee, because the committee didn't consider it. I suggest we move this consideration to another date when the author will be well, and then we can look at it at another time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u148	Thank you. I also pay attention to both the author and the committee, when they consider it, see how the decision is made. She's something of a violation. And by quota. For example, from the Party of Regions – 2 persons and from the “Timoshenko Block” – 2 persons, 1 person – from the “National Self-Defense” and 1 person from the “Block of Lithuania”. This is not proportionate, as they say. No objections? Thank you. Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the falsification of data from the State Committee of Ukraine on inflation rates and uncontrolled printing of money that led to hyperinflation. [[Registration number 7294]] [[author of the Sobolev bill]] Although the committee has not yet considered it, it does. But there was a motion for a ruling on October 25th, so we have, we have, we have the possibility without the committee's decision, because they insist. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:46:23]] For 181. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, your opinion is being suggested, in my opinion, by a perfectly clear decision. Because when you open statistics or reports to the National Bank, and then our fellow citizens go into shops or markets, it becomes clear, or statistics live in another country, or give data about another country of residence, but not about Ukraine. Because when we analyze inflation figures that are quarterly, monthly, that are provided by the ministries that are appropriate, and then processed by the State Department, it turns out that inflation at the beginning of the year was expected to increase prices by a maximum of 7 to 11 percent. And when our citizens buy Greek, the price of Greek is 4 times higher. When our citizens go into shops and buy oil, and oil is hard to find, but not with dyes, or with appropriate shredders, it turns out that the price of natural oil has risen by a factor of 2.5. If our fellow citizens are looking at the official reports of the Ministry of Economics, the State Department, and also the National Bank, it turns out that everything is great in the country. Inflation is controlled. There is no rise in uncontrolled prices. That's why the authors propose. Because so far we have not received any real information from the National Bank about what today is making up money in Ukraine. We get this information from sources that are unofficial and that say that today between 93 billion and 118 billion dollars of printed money have been thrown into the market. And so in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u150	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u151	The consequences of this are in mindless politics run by both the government today and the President of the National Bank, who is thoughtlessly printing money. That is why there is an insistence on creating such a commission so that we can get real information and act on an adequate situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u152	Thank you. Yeah, the committee hasn't looked into it or are they ready? Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We are informed that the committee at its meeting did not consider the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine into falsifications of data by the State Committee of Ukraine on inflation indicators and uncontrolled printing of money, which led to hyperinflation by the National Deputy of Ukraine Soboljev at number 7294. At the same time, however, we note that the quantification of the interim commission of inquiry in the draft decree is determined by 11 Ukrainian national deputies. At the same time, its personal composition is limited to five persons from the MP's faction, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland, and our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. There is also no candidate for election as deputy chairman of the commission, which is a violation of the Supreme Council Rules, paragraph 3, of part four of article 85. In addition, the Committee has received proposals from the National Bank of Ukraine, which point out that article 53 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act provides guarantees of non-interference with the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. The involvement of public authorities and other public authorities or their officials and officials, any legal or natural persons, in the performance of functions and powers of the Council or the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine, shall not be allowed. So they're proposing to delete paragraph 2, sub-paragraph 2, from the draft regulation. In view of the fact that the prescribed draft decree is included in the weekly agenda of plenary meetings, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may consider it. During the consideration, however, the Commission’s personal composition should be clarified and the commission’s deputy head selected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-01-m0.u154	Yes, of course. Shall we discuss it? No, it's not. Yes, then we'll put it to a vote. The only thing I'm informing you is the honourable colleagues who are part of the commission that is being proposed to create from 11 national deputies, so far there are the names of 5 national deputies. The other factions did not. I'm betting on the vote on a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the falsification of data by the State Committee of Ukraine on inflation rates and uncontrolled printing of money that led to hyperinflation. Registration number 7294. [[12:52:00]] For 135 It takes 150 votes to make that decision. The bill is not supported, it is considered rejected. Dear colleagues! We've exhausted the order of the day. I thank you for your work, for putting up with the cold. The Kjevo-Pečerska Lavra has already begun. We looked at it, it didn't get support, it wasn't even included in the agenda. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Today we work on committees and factions. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
