ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u1	The Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of its 60th anniversary of the signing of the 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u2	Good day, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests, allow me to welcome all the participants in today’s special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies, distinguished guests, attend a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov and members of the government, Head and Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters, Head of the High Council of Justice, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, representatives of international organizations, legal organizations of Ukraine, churches and religious organizations, diplomatic corps, scientific institutions and higher educational institutions, representatives of all Ukrainian public organizations of national minorities. Dear national MPs, distinguished guests! The special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950 has been publicized. Honorary National Deputies, Honorary Guests, in a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Boris Illich Olijnik - Ukrainian poet, writer, real member of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Cultural Foundation, honorary academic of the Academy of Arts of Ukraine, head of the National Committee of the National Award of Ukraine, Taras Shevchenka, Hero of Ukraine, deputy of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union, vice-chairman of the Nationality Chamber of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union, deputy of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union, and XI of the People's Deputies of Ukraine II, III and IV of the exclusions. Today, Boris Iliju is 50 years old. Please welcome the classic of Ukrainian literature, a well-known public figure. [[Flushing]] Dear National Deputies! Dear guests! The President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, addresses the participants of the special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u3	[[Image Reversed]] Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is quite symbolic because we are conducting it in a context of profound reform of all spheres of activity in Ukraine, in particular the human rights protection system. You know that the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges has already been passed, the reform of the State's law enforcement system has been initiated, but the jubilee of the convention is not a cause for celebration. This is an opportunity to think about the state of protection and, rather, the inviolability of fundamental human rights in Ukraine. On the one hand, our meeting demonstrates the willingness of the new Ukrainian authorities to implement the highest standards of human rights. On the other hand, we must answer a series of unforgivable questions. Why Ukraine, in the 1960s, had to fight for the implementation of its basic principles. Why is there no strategy for overcoming poverty that comes directly from our nation’s international obligations? Why is there no national mechanism for preventing torture in Ukraine? Why there are numerous deaths of innocent people in law enforcement agencies each year. Sadly, these questions are rhetorical, and those to whom they are addressed are unable to provide convincing answers. It can't go on like this. I will not deny what has been done and many steps have been taken to ensure the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, including the possibility of bringing a court decision before the European Court of Human Rights. But we need to appreciate the human rights situation more deeply and systematically. I believe that both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers have as soon as possible a process of unifying national legislation with European law enforcement standards. I am convinced that Ukraine has every opportunity in a year or two to significantly improve the situation by meeting the standards set out in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We must convince the whole world of the real things of the seriousness and irreversibility of our purposes. Ukraine must get rid of, and it will get rid of, the status of a state of status of a state in which fundamental human rights are regularly violated. I am convinced that our work in the name of Ukraine, together with you, will allow us to solve the accumulated problems and make our country a country of justice and human freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u4	Dear participants in the special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please thank the President of Ukraine for his position, for seeing what we need to do in order to solve human rights problems. Welcome to the welcome speech of Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u5	Dear participants in the special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! 60 years ago in Rome, European nations took a historic step. For the first time in human history, they have undertaken to collectively guarantee the rights proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ukraine took a historic step when, on July 17, 1997, the Ukrainian National Deputies ratified the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in this session hall. We then confirmed not only the European aspirations of our nation but also the real European choice, the desire to live by the standards that are really the foundation of justice and freedom. And a year earlier, in 1996, in the same room, we adopted the Constitution of Ukraine, which was recognized by the world as one of the best basic laws, primarily because it clearly reflects and guarantees human rights and freedoms. That is, our nation has the right, solid foundation for the life of modern society. So what do we have to build on this foundation? I don't think it's necessary to prove that the rights and freedoms of a poor person are just good intentions. Therefore, we are obliged to build a country where all citizens will enjoy their inalienable rights richly and fully. This is the final objective of the reform programme announced by President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic of Ukraine. And this is a job for the whole society, for every citizen. We all know how much trouble we have, but if we take steps to resolve these issues, we will certainly improve people’s lives. Through joint efforts by authorities, public and law enforcement organizations, despite the problems of the transition period, we are gradually approaching international standards in the field of human rights, both legislative and practical. For the government, upholding and protecting the rights of citizens is an absolute priority. The Ministry of Justice, through a government-authorized European Court of Human Rights case, conducts a permanent representation of Ukraine before the European Court of Human Rights and reports on the progress in the implementation of decisions by the European Court of Justice. We ensure the openness and transparency of the work of the executive bodies, as well as the participation of the public in the formation and implementation of public policy. All possibilities have been created for free and objective disclosure of government activities in the media. We understand that the state of affairs in the State needs decisive reforms. The President of Ukraine was given a mandate from the people to implement such reforms, to update the country. And that's why today's only strong authority is jointly fulfilling this mandate. The government will continue to do everything for the democratic development of Ukraine, ensuring the rights and freedoms of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u6	Thank you, Mikola Janovich, so do you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u7	Dear participants in the special session, the statement is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all those gathered in the Ukrainian Parliament today as a sign of a date in the history of the European community. It is 60 years old from the date of the adoption of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of an International Law, which is, by its scope and authority, in line with the Charter of the United Nations. Its implementation is seen as a cornerstone and a measure of the civilization of any society and democracy of state power. It is a daily test of loyalty to the democratic values that serve as a common guide for the countries and peoples of the continent, the legal cores of their lives and their development. It is at this very point of view that we should consider the significance and impact of the event that took place on November 4, 1950, at the Roman Palace of Barberini and assess accordingly the initiative of the 15 nations whose leaders signed their convention: Belgium, Denmark, France, France, France, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, the countries of Saar, Turkey, Great Britain, Greece, and Sweden That powerful humanistic impulse was sent to Europe and to the whole world shortly after World War II ended with its outrageous atrocities, losses, and desolations. The way to a future free from cruelty, violence, and oppression was set before saved mankind. Hence the enormous political resonance and widespread human response -- the trust and hope with which the convention was adopted, its long-lasting and undiminished impact on the fate of the planet. Its stated principles had a significant impact on the development of regional human rights standards in various parts of the world, including the American Convention on Human Rights, the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, the Union of Independent States Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Arab Charter on Human Rights and other regional and special instruments. A number of provisions of the convention have become a major part of the Constitution of many European nations, and it has put its emphasis on the formation and improvement of national mechanisms for the protection of human rights. The historical significance of the European Convention is more complete, more embossed before us and our contemporaries from the height of the modern age. In time, her role will no doubt grow further. Today’s Jubilee, providing an opportunity to look into the past, to recall its milestone, is a good opportunity to critically weigh today’s realities, the light shadow of the application of the convention’s regulations and requirements, and to draw responsible lessons and conclusions from such analysis. Critical comments on this subject were not lacking throughout the convention period, but criticism was not about the document itself but about the process of its implementation, which we finally see today. The responsibility of present - day generations is to be worthy of the heritage of those who stood near the sources of the European Convention and filled it with concrete, effective content despite all the difficulties and obstacles. Then, let me take a little tour to confirm how difficult and challenging this has been. The idea of the convention was rejected by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. Main arguments: The Council of Europe should not duplicate the UN; the adoption of the convention would impede the implementation of the recently adopted Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which imposed political, not legal, obligations on participants. However, the decisive word remained with the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe. Most of its members were represented by nations that fought actively against Fascist aggression and not in other people’s words knew that war, Nazism, and other totalitarian regimes had brought nations. Today, the names of Pierre-Anry Taitzen, David Maxwell-Fife, all 45 representatives of the advisory assembly who have reached the approval of a resolution proposing a convention under which each Member State will be obliged to abide by the rights and fundamental freedoms of persons guaranteed by the Constitution, laws and practices of governance, which are in fact existing in the respective countries on the date of the signing of the convention. [[France]] [[United Kingdom]] Create a European Commission of Human Rights and a European Court of Human Rights to ensure compliance with the Convention. This laid the foundation and was designed to carry the structure of this spectacular structure. Its construction is also a story of overcoming disagreements, finding compromises, collisions of thoughts and concepts, not rarely incompatible and mutually exclusive. Some felt that the convention proclaimed too much human rights. On the other hand, there are not enough rights to be declared. Before that, the world had not yet known any other international instrument to which such universal attention had been given. There was a resonant march. For example, representatives of the permanent committee from France and the FRF refused to attend during the convention because the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers suddenly disagreed with some of the additions proposed by the Constitutional Assembly. It was the removal from the text of three positions: the right to personal property, the right of parents to have a choice regarding the education they want to give their children and the right to make free choices. The argument made by opposers regarding the inclusion of such provisions in the convention was as follows. With regard to property rights: such a right, he said, cannot be absolute, cannot be declared without reasonable limitations. Before declaring everyone’s right to property, the right to employment and work must be established, without which there will be no ownership. About education. Placing this right on parents will remove the responsibility for teaching children in the country. The representative of Britain, in particular, stated that each child would then be taught his/her history, religion, ideology, and so on, which would lead to social disintegration. The right to free elections. In the opinion of the opponents, this cannot be done until the very meaning of the term “free elections” has been defined. I hope that the reverend audience will not claim such detail, at least because all three of these have not lost their relevance to our day. Only some new adjustments were made in time. After a lengthy discussion the following day after the signing of the convention, all three points marked with editorial details were added to the first protocol to the convention opened before the signing of March 20, 1952. However, discussions continued in the future. But the convention consistently, step by step, reaffirmed its priority positions in the system of European law and order. Of course, all of this has long become history, but she has much to say and much to teach. First of all, we have a real alloy of professionalism in front of us. Responsibility and, equally important, scrupulousness in approaches to the highest values of man, his rights, and his freedoms. Secondly, we have a pattern of democracy, respect for other views and thoughts, a procedure that helps bring positions together and make decisions that are mutually acceptable. It will not be an exaggeration to say that, in speaking the modern language, the algorithms of preparation, reconciliation and approval largely provided the Conventions with universal recognition as a kind of human rights constitution of the European community. At the same time, it is not a set of rigid, once and for all formed canons, but a living, changing legal body that evolves along with the changing and dynamic world in which it operates. The discussions around the Convention are ongoing, their greatest focus has been on the mid-1990s, and on a whole range of aspects and positions, they are still ongoing. It is a formal matter of protecting the legal acquisitions of the Convention, but it is based on purely ideological motives. Moreover, while paradoxically this may seem to be the case, a heated controversy came at the end of the cold war. By assessing this, of course, positive fact, as the final and final chord of the global ideological opposition, the post-socialist countries of Eastern and Central Europe saw in it a signal that there were no obstacles to cooperation with the West. Their sentiments were materialized in their requests for admission to the Council of Europe with further intent to ratify the convention, which sparked opposition and often sharpness in Western European countries, which put forward the following key arguments. The first limit on the resources of the convention system that will not effectively solve the internal problems of candidate countries to the Council of Europe. Second, the unwillingness of these countries to provide any minimum standards for the functioning of democratic institutions produced by the Council of Europe. Third, the contradiction between Eastern European observance of principles. The principle of the rule of law, in addition to the totalitarian law in Eastern Europe, and the need to comply with the principle of the rule of law proclaimed by the convention. Fourthly, if these countries are allowed to join the European Convention, the Council of Europe will turn from the Club of Democratic States into a training centre for those who do not have developed experience of functioning under the laws of democracy. Fifth, the enlargement of the Council of Europe may pose a serious threat to the convention’s general provisions, as they will be confused by the low or conflicting standards of the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. There have been many other objections that have also led to the early acceptance by the countries of undeveloped democracy of this comfortable democratic club. Some officials were so radical that when the process went against their beliefs and desires, they did not hesitate to resign. One of the last such Protestants was the deputy secretary - general of the Council of Europe in 1997. Due to known historical circumstances, objective and subjective, Ukraine was able to join the convention relatively recently — November 9, 15th of this phased step to meet a large European family. As we look at the history of the development of legal thought and justice in our country, we have to make a self-critical recognition that it is not as much an undeveloped democracy as democracy is, I would say, an unexploited, unexploited, unexploited, and not one that is being given up by the Council of Europe. A retrospective tour convinces whether it is difficult or virtually impossible to name an article of the convention and its protocols, which would be a revelation to Ukrainian law, the legal opinion of Ukrainians or the peoples who lived in the territory of our nation before it was formed. To be more specific, let's say a preamble to the convention: to ensure effective political democracy. By the end of the fourth century B.C.E., there was an order in Hersones for the acquisition of citizenship, according to which everyone who wanted to make such an oath would have to do so. I quote: “I will be one - minded about freedom of state and citizen. I won't break the democratic order and I won't let anyone do it. I'm not going to think of any unfair case against any of the citizens. I will not allow anyone to do that, and I will give a vote in court according to the law." What is it, not a handful of democracy? Let them be natural and not entirely legalized, but confident and everywhere with civil conviction. Well - known factions that have arisen and continue to arise around the problem of the death penalty. It is known that its repeal is provided for in article 2 of the Convention, which is entitled “The right to life” and in Protocols Nos. 6 and 13. Thus, when the bishops asked Prince Vladimir of Kiev why he would not impose the death penalty, because the number of robbers had increased in the country, he replied: “Fear of sin”. Hence the logic of the article of the second “Russian Truth” which states that after the death of Jaroslav his sons gathered: [[wide editor]] Isalav, Svetoslav, the Vysvolod and their warlords, and they abolished the death penalty for murder, and they established that the killing of kunas was to be redeemed. Similarly, article 3 of the Convention on the Prohibition of Torture and the Right to a Fair Court provides for article 6. In association with them, a fragment of the charter of the great Prince Jaroslav Volodymyrovich Wisely appears to be quite modern: “The judges must be aware of the matter, since they have the right to be condemned and unrepentant. Judge with fear of God. It is for the defendant to determine what is the meaning of life, what is life’s morals as evidenced by the investigation. Woe to him who vindicates the wicked for his wages and takes away the truth from him. Be wary of him who has not judged justly.” Even without minimizing the instruction of a thousand years of age, we can see that they are entirely directed to the modern judicial corps and not only to it. More examples can be found. However, it is clear that the European Convention does not contain a new principle for the Ukrainian legal opinion of Ukrainian law. It contains, of course, articles where a number of positions are formulated differently, but the essence does not change. It must also be admitted that during the period of totalitarianism we were forced to move away from many democratic positions, but they existed in pre-totalitarian history of Ukraine, and this is confirmed, again, by undisputed facts. It is primarily about the rule of law, which belongs to the fundamental foundations of the European Convention. Thus, the term of its time was, indeed, used little in Ukrainian law, recognized the rule of law, but other definitions were known in ancient times. Grace, truth, divine command, practically identical to the rule of law. And the first Russian Metropolitan Illarion of Kyivsky, which is the 19th century, has revealed the problem better and more fully than some of the new researchers in their monographs. What's more, he said, and the way it was established was the law, and then the grace, first the shadow, then the truth. The Law, for he was a forerunner and a minister of grace and truth. Indeed, I think we will agree with you that it is difficult to express ourselves more deeply and fully. Now, about the idea of human dignity, which is the heart of the convention. It is quite common to hear allegations that we are violating human rights because of misunderstanding or underestimating the position of respect for the dignity of everyone set forth in article three. I would encourage skeptics to read the teachings of Vladimir Monomah, who, and this should be emphasized in particular, the first in medieval law to interpret the concept of human dignity and the legal and moral imperatives that emerge from it. In summary, there is still much that needs to be done in Ukraine to improve the mechanisms for the protection of human rights, but to explain to us what these rights are and how they should not be understood. It is also necessary to take with caution and caution the claims that massive human rights violations in Central and Eastern Europe have led their citizens to seek, as a last resort, protection in the European Court of Justice. In fact, his normal work was blocked by a number of complaints that had not yet been heard. Let's look at the official published data. As of October 1, 1994, since Protocol No. 9, the individuals of the States parties to the convention have been given the right to address directly to the European Court of Justice, he has examined 498 cases of 506 that have occurred. The number of applications that came to court each year ranged between 5 and 6 decades. The countries that first received the right to appeal to the court, Bulgaria and Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, and Slovakia, Romania, and Slovenia had no effect on the dynamics of the increase in appeals. Over the next five years, such countries of Central and Eastern Europe — Lithuania, Albania, Estonia, Croatia, Latvia, Moldova, Macedonia, Ukraine, Russia, Georgia — joined the convention. And from Western Europeans only Andorra, which has clearly made the weather in these statistics. Since the number of applications filed in 1999 amounted to 20.5,000, it seemed that the central European replenishment was mainly involved. In fact, Western Europe even led, Italy received 3,000,645 calls from France, 2 thousand,581 from Germany, 1 thousand,599, from Britain, 1 thousand, 28. So the total number is almost 13,000, almost half. If you take one more indicator, the number of calls per 10,000 population is roughly the same for both regions. Reasons need to be looked at in a different way, in our view, at imperfections and mechanisms for protecting human rights, both at national and European level. Not by chance from the 15 protocols adopted, the nine are focused on procedurally technical issues, especially with regard to the control and implementation of convention provisions. Finally, the President of the European Court of Human Rights of Jean-Paul Costa himself, summarizing the joint efforts in this direction of the Council of Europe, had to admit that in 10 years various attempts to reform the system had failed. Obviously, instead of looking for the guilty, we need to work out the omissions and calculations and work together to get the system out of the situation. Although the most problematic factor remains the same steady and growing stream of appeals to the court. By the end of the first half of this year, the European Court was awaiting its ruling of 129 thousand and 650 cases — an impressive figure. And a significant contribution was made, unfortunately, by Ukraine. It holds fourth place after Russia, Turkey and Romania, and this “after” is a relative concept. For 10,000 people, we are ahead of Russia and Turkey. What does that mean? It seems that with the ratification of the convention the authorities and officials consider their mission complete. Instead of beating at the heaviest and all the means of correcting the situation, both within the power of the government and through Parliament, the judiciary and other institutions, we still care for the problem much less than the organization of our visits to Strasbourg. Our judicial system is no better at this point of view: 39 percent of the decisions of the European Court concerning Ukraine relate to infringements of the right to justice, 28 percent to infringement of property rights, and 12 percent to lengthy judicial proceedings. And this is because hundreds of ambassadors to the Ukrainian courts, including the Constitutional Court and the Supreme, and the Higher Economic, the High Administrative Court, have repeatedly been interned in the European Court of Justice. Fewer were registered in Strasbourg and law enforcement officials. Meanwhile, Ukraine continues to precede the members of the Council of Europe in the number of cases covered by article 13 of the Convention on the right to an effective remedy and Article 3 of the Convention on the Prohibition of Torture. Outside, as the 21st century calls it, the shameful, simply unbelievable facts of torture do not stop, and not every one of them is regarded as an extraordinary event and is described as one of the most serious crimes. It is unfortunate that similar things have to be discussed after how many years of membership in the Council of Europe, seeing this as a significant proportion of the blame and of the Parliament. I address the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, the Time, Fellows of Respect, the Obedience of Hearing of Officials, the Initiation of Parliamentary Hearings on Your Assigned Issues, the Study of Decisions and Practices of the European Court of Justice in Ukraine, the preparation and introduction of laws on relevant, mature issues. In the end, this committee should be the catalyst for the creation of effective and effective mechanisms for the protection of human rights in our country, I mean at the parliamentary level, and it is clear that this should not be done by the entire Ukrainian Parliament. There is reason to draw attention in this context and to the role of the country’s attorney. At first glance, it works as if it were not bad, but on the other hand, why our fellow citizens are increasingly using foreign experts when they refer to the European Court of Human Rights and why at a low level the so-called friendly settlement of cases, which should primarily be initiated by a lawyer. With statistics from the European Court of Justice, the total number of such regulations is only 2 percent for Ukraine. A similar proportion is involved in removing cases from the list. The situation that has arisen calls for improved national mechanisms for the protection of human rights. In view of the fact that, at this point, national problems are clearly dominated by Europeans at the centre of which the most urgent reform of the European Court of Human Rights itself is clearly stated by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Turbian Youngland: “We will save the court because we have no other choice, which European citizens demand, and they deserve nothing less than that. Such categorism is also justified by the fact that almost 130,000 cases are pending before the European Court of Justice, as I have already stressed. The court, a brain center for the protection of human rights, has in fact become a hostage and a victim of its own popularity. In demanding a reasonable time for the convention, he is no longer able to cope with his own demands. So far, approaches to the problem of increasing the number of cases have also been numerical, the process of considering them at two levels in three stages: The Commission on Human Rights, the Committee of Ministers and the Court are reduced to a minimum. Instead of a large room, another is formed, and the number of ordinary chambers is increased to 5. The number of committees has nearly doubled, but this has not produced tangible results; the pace of the increase in the number of decisions made is much behind the dynamics of the mass of pending cases. Even when all its structures are fully loaded, the court is able to decide slightly more than 50,000 cases in a year. This is much less than the number of things that are waiting for their turn and the new ones that are approaching. Protocol No.14 to the convention is again based on a quantifiable principle. He gives one judge the right to rule on the inadmissibility of the case, provides for the possibility of reducing the chamber to 5 judges and thus increasing the number of chambers, and raises new criteria for the admission of the case to be unacceptable, etc. But, as noted earlier, all of this did not bring what was desired, nor did it have the desired effect. Instead, new problems are added. Among them can be predicted: A judge who sits alone will face at least a language problem because he cannot read documents written in a language that he does not know that he does not exclude manipulations from translators or lawyers who speak the language, which is a threat to the authority of judicial decisions. Article 8 of the Protocol states that the Court’s committee may decide essentially if the underlying question of the interpretation or application of a convention or protocols to it is the subject of established court practice. However, the concept of “established practice” is not clearly defined, and then committees can give him arbitrary interpretation. In accordance with article 6 of the Protocol, when the judge sits alone, he does not consider any claim against the high contracting party from which the judge was elected. According to another, 8 articles of this protocol, if a judge elected by a high contracting party who is not a party to the case is not a member of the committee, the committee may invite the judge to take the seat of one of the members of the committee and may not invite him. Thus, there is a unique situation in inter-State justice where the guilt of the respondent State may be recognized by an international jurisdiction body outside the participation of a judge who has been chosen by her or whom she has chosen in ad hoc status for a particular case. The new procedure will certainly contribute to speeding up the exercise of justice in a certain category of cases, but it will severely limit the sovereignty of a State even without consulting it. To ensure the independence and impartiality of the judges, the protocol limits their election to one nine - year term. But it's not taken into account that judges are now elected lawyers even between the ages of 32 and 35, so they end up in court at the age of 41-44. So they're going to have to wait another 20 to 25 years until they retire. The issue in the court is not finally settled. Thus, judges will have to work out the necessary internships when they return to their homeland. The practice of various countries, including Ukraine, where there is a rule of election of a Constitutional Court judge for just one term, indicates that when the term of his election is completed and far away from retirement, some problems arise. Obviously, we should consider this. The list of problems that created but did not solve Protocol No. 14 can be continued. In particular, the expansion of the criteria for recognition is unacceptable, which may lead to a decommissioning of the human rights system. The rejection of a claim without a court decision cannot, in principle, be regarded as having a bearing on the protection of human rights. For this reason, concerns have already been expressed by NGOs, as well as by the governments of some countries that indicated that an individual claim could be rejected if the applicant did not suffer a significant loss. The essence or reformers of the convention were to determine what such a major loss should be considered. But it's not done. Since it is now possible for judges to make such decisions only on their own, given the legal background of some of them, it is not difficult to predict what complications may be expected. In fact, regarding the implementation of article 21 of the convention, which requires judges to be lawyers with a recognized level of competence. In time, there was an apparent devaluation of this criterion. Here's a speech statement. Of the 15 judges elected to court in the first election. 11 were professors: Mossler, Ross, Eric, Fedros, Cassen, Folbak, McNer, Maridakis, Palieri, Azbeck, Rollen, and four were supreme judges in their countries: Wald, McGonial, Rodenbury, Arnalds. In other words, scientists and experts are recognized as the most authoritative lawyers in Europe. According to their textbooks and monographs, lawyers around the world have learned from their judicial decisions. On such a background, there are particularly obvious flaws in the judicial selection system, which predominates party preferences that take precedence over professionalism. Nor can it be disturbed that at the time of the adoption of protocol 14, many authoritative judges from Italy, the Netherlands, San Marino, Ireland, Poland, Finland, Luxembourg, Ukraine, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway went to another job or refused to participate in the elections. In accordance with this protocol, over 60 percent of judges will be replaced in the near future. The situation calls for increased demands on their successors. Otherwise, we risk losing the European Court of Justice as a high-level institution. More thoughtfulness is also needed in approaches to the loading of a court. Today, the lion’s part of his attention focuses on matters that duplicate each other. Perhaps we should also see to it that this high, authoritative body actually becomes a European standard measure in the field of human rights rather than a centre for the multiplication of clone cases, like the court of the first instance. At the same time, there is also a variety of sanctions for violations of the convention, so that the court does not turn into a cashier who just determines who is the victim and how much will be paid. A Respectable Meeting! Debates around the improvement of the European human rights mechanism continue until an effective comprehensive reform of the entire human rights system is implemented. The main area of effort is the reform of the European Court of Human Rights. Based on what his former head, Rolf Rizzal, emphasized, in the area of democratic protection of individuals and institutions, he became the only and most important political and legal denominator for European continent states in the widest geographical area. Numerous proposals have already been made on how to do so, including instead of today's fact-finding missions, to establish an institution with appropriate means and powers; to form an additional chamber, as was done in the Luxembourg European Court of Justice, which would decide on clone cases or establish facts and carry out preliminary investigations; to divide the protection system into three elements: prevention of infringements, increased effectiveness of appeals; to extend the jurisdiction of the court to take decisions and to make an advisory opinion within the framework of the European Convention; to give the European Court of Justice the first instance the right to make preliminary rulings on requests from national courts; to extend the jurisdiction of the court pending decisions and to make an advisory opinion; and to give the Court a direct opportunity to decide which cases he would be brought; to initiate a legal decision on the basis of which all legal proceedings were brought before the court. Some of the items listed were counted, but most were rejected for different reasons. These and other problems were discussed in detail at a high-level conference held in Interlaken from February 18th to February 19th this year on the initiative of the Swiss presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. As a result, the Declaration was adopted. In particular, the conference developed a set of measures that laid the groundwork for reforming both the European Court of Human Rights and the entire regional system for the protection of these rights. The participants urged the Council of Europe member states to do their utmost to ensure that the conclusions of the conference did not lead to a political statement of intent but were strengthened by concrete action. The Declaration rightly stresses that the fundamental role of guaranteeing the protection of human rights at national level is called upon to play by national authorities, namely governments, courts and parliaments. By the end of the following year, Ukraine should inform the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee of what has been done to implement this Declaration. Almost half the deadline has passed, and our work in this regard has not yet begun. It seems that we still have our own view of the situation and our own understanding of the responsibility for fulfilling international obligations, including the political ones that Ukraine has assumed. I will remind you that the conference called for future heads at the Council of Ministers of Europe committee to follow up on this declaration. And since May of the following year, Ukraine has just begun to head the committee. Obviously, our European colleagues will have a misunderstanding about the fact that the performer of this leading role of honor shows, to say the least, no better example of the implementation of the Declaration. It is obvious that both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and all of us need to take immediate action to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations to the Council of Europe. We need to be able to get the monitoring from Ukraine, because it's clearly not a normal situation when the chairman of the Council of Europe's Council of Ministers, the country itself, is under surveillance. As a result of the tasks and objectives of reforming the European human rights system, we would probably soon want to develop and formally approve a set of measures to ensure that the conference's plan of action, as a tool of political orientation, is being implemented in the process of ensuring a long-term effective convention system. The obligations of the State and its bodies, as well as public organisations and political parties, civil society as a whole, should be clearly defined; more effective cooperation in the field of human rights protection of Ukraine with the bodies and institutions of the Council of Europe; and more concrete proposals on issues that require amendments to the convention on the mechanism of acceptance and rejection of applications, before the European Court of Justice, to monitor the implementation of its decisions. Reforming the European human rights system requires a qualitative increase in the role of national parliaments. Remember, once again, when the executive structures of the Council of Europe blocked the adoption of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, it was the members of the parliaments of the participating countries who were able to break their blockade. At the time, the efforts of parliamentarians were needed to adopt this act, now to develop and implement it. Then, we need to develop a comprehensive concept of national human rights policy, and we need to introduce into the practice of expertizing bills and other legal instruments in order to comply with the Convention. Because this is a document of human rights that is actually derived from the competence of a separate state and they have acquired a universal character. In turn, the Convention is a pass to the European community. All mature issues could be discussed at the High-level Conference of the Member States of the Council of Europe. And obviously, it should be held in Ukraine in the second half of 2011. In this forum, it would be appropriate to analyse the progress and previous results of the implementation of the Interlaken Declaration. In conclusion, I think it is necessary to emphasize once again the entire prehistoric history of the 60-year anniversary that we are celebrating today, proving that, despite all of this, the Convention is not a routine international legal act, but is a reliable decree of civilisation through democracy, which, despite all the shortcomings, is the best model for development. I wish all of us success in carrying out these tasks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u9	Thank you for the report and for the initiative to hold this special session. I now invite the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Mr. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u10	The honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the highly respected meeting, today’s event of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are certainly an opportunity to recall once again the universality and uniqueness of the convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is an unprecedented manifestation of the aspirations of the countries of Europe, the unification of efforts in the field of human rights, the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law. But first of all, we have to talk today about what our nation is now dealing with in the sad five leaders for the number of appeals against it before the European Court of Human Rights. We have just heard a thorough report from the figures. But I am more concerned about the number of references than the number and content of decisions. Based on the fact that the European Court of Human Rights is not a penal body, it is only a mechanism that at the highest professional level helps the State to identify clearly the most painful human rights problems it has, the analysis of the decisions of the European Court against Ukraine shows our internal negative trends that require special attention from the authorities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we already have 670 of these decisions today. Thus, in particular, the European Court finds that violations of the Convention by Ukraine have led to non-execution or prolonged execution of decisions by national courts, 365 of such violations have been recorded; the prolonged conduct of criminal proceedings and the lengthy review of cases by the courts, 154 have been recorded; the mistreatment of the person held in custody, as well as the improper investigation of complaints of misconduct by representatives of the State during detention and detention, inappropriate conditions of detention, and the failure to provide adequate medical assistance in places of prior imprisonment and in institutions of execution, 39 of such violations have been documented; the shortcomings of legislation and administrative practices that have led to the detention of the person without due cause and violation of the right of the person to liberty and personal integrity; 39 have been documented; the failure of the law of the law and the law of the law of the family; the violation of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the courts; the law of the law of the courts; and the violation of the law of the right of the right of the right of liberty of the European Court; 38 have been not been found; and the courts. [[or]] Ukraine became the first State on the European continent to adopt a legislative procedure to implement the judgments of the European Court of Justice by adopting in 2006 the Ukrainian Law on the Implementation of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which provides for a system and procedural mechanisms to implement decisions and prevent a new violation of the Convention. Pursuant to this law, the European Court of Justice’s decision to violate Ukraine’s human rights is the payment of compensation, the State’s application of additional measures of an individual nature aimed at remedying a specific infringement determined by the European Court of Justice, as well as measures of a general nature aimed at removing the grounds for bringing similar claims against Ukraine to court in the future. [[The most difficult place for the Ukrainian State to remain to this day]] In fact, the execution of decisions by the European Court of Justice should bring together all three branches of power in the state, since the Ukrainian Government is responsible for paying just satisfaction, mainly the judicial branch of authority for individual measures that are most often necessary to reinstate judicial implementation. The Supreme Council, in turn, is evidently to adopt legislative decisions with a view to resolving the problem as soon as possible, which has led to human rights violations. And I should point out that it would be logical how responsible we have in the European Court of Justice we have the state of Ukraine, not just the government, and accordingly all the authorities of the state have shared responsibility for how protected human rights are in Ukraine. In doing so, I should point out that only part of the payment of fair satisfaction does the mechanism work properly. The money to be paid by the European Court of Justice will be guaranteed within 3 months of obtaining the final status. But what I have to say is that it is precisely these costs that are foreseen in the State budget each year to implement the European Court's decisions that are the most powerful indicator of how costly human rights violations are for the State. I'm not going to make these numbers, they're big enough for this decision. But once again, I want to emphasize that by the last euro, the centre pays everything in time, according to the decisions. If I analyze the implementation of European Court rulings such as individual actions, I regret to note that, at the present time, there are all possibilities for a retrial of human rights violations by the European Court of Justice, the Supreme Court of Ukraine does not use them and is often ignored. This does not depend on the procedural legislation that worked before the adoption of the new procedural rules, not so long ago, and is now one of the first powers and rights of the Supreme Court, which is continuously maintained. I would like to report only one case of “Yarmenko v. Ukraine”, in which a person was sentenced to be permanently deprived of his liberty on the basis of only one evidence, an appearance with a duty received by law enforcement authorities for the absence of a lawyer. The European Court of Justice found a violation of the right to a fair trial and it seemed that, in compliance with procedural legislation and with respect for the principle of human rights, the Supreme Court should abolish that part and refer the case to a new court for the purpose of remedying violations. However, the Supreme Court ruled only to exclude from the motivational part of the sentence a reference to appearance should be made, leaving the sentence in effect. It is not difficult to predict the effect on the State, since the Ministry of Justice has already received from the European Court of Justice the Yaremenko v. Ukraine-2 case, which relates to the right to a fair trial in the Supreme Court case. In this case, we will soon have an assessment by the European Court of Justice as to how effective the Supreme Court of Ukraine is as the main defender of human rights during the trial of violations of the Convention. The question of the implementation of measures of a general nature aimed at removing the grounds for the European Court of Justice’s application against Ukraine, namely bringing Ukraine’s legislation into line with the Convention and the practice of the European Court of Justice, cannot be avoided. For this purpose, a number of important changes to legislation have been made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine over the past ten years. In particular, the procurator’s authority to authorize a person to be held in custody has been revoked. The review of decisions of the courts that have gained legal power in the order of supervision has been cancelled. A review of the correspondence of a person who is being held in custody or who is being punished is prohibited and exchanged with the European Court of Justice and the Ombudsman, a procedure has been laid down for the prosecution of administrative decisions in accordance with the national procedure for extradition, the procedure for review by the Supreme Court of Ukraine of decisions of the higher courts of Ukraine in the order of a double incarceration. These were also the decisions found by the European Court of Human Rights. But we can't help but say that the main problem that the European Court of Justice has identified in the first pilot decision on our state and it's against Ukraine is, by the way, the outcome of the Interlaken conference. The question of when a pilot’s decision, involving thousands of joint or similar claims, is taken. This problem is linked to two main factors that should be the primary priority for all authorities in Ukraine. First of all, we need to bring about a level playing field, obviously acknowledging the populist legislation that, because of various political reasons or preferences, guaranteed the citizens of Ukraine those or other benefits and payments that have never been fully funded and even theoretically funded by the state budget. Today, in Ukraine’s years of independence, the state’s debt under such laws to Ukrainian citizens amounts to over 130 billion dollars. I should also point out that this debt increases every day and will continue to grow until a solution is found. I understand the problem we have, the adoption of new laws and article 22 of the Constitution. But we need to find a solution so that we do not drive ourselves further into the dead end of the inability to comply with the European Court of Human Rights. Secondly, it is necessary to resolve the issue of a moratorium on the implementation of property that does not allow the authorities of the State enforcement service to carry out a court decision just because, for example, the State does not own more than 25 percent of the property or the enterprise is entered into an energy register. This is used as the protection of literacy for an enterprise, not to execute any court decisions that are passed in Ukraine, then to take decisions in Strasbourg, and Ukraine's state budget is calculated for companies that allow themselves to fail to execute their contracts and contracts and not pay their employees' wages. I should point out that we have less time to solve these problems, and in January 2011, we are running out of time to implement the pilot's decision. We are now looking at how to propose to the Ukrainian Parliament that we pass a decision to execute the European Court of Justice so that we do not continue to raise our debt on social pay and provoke thousands of new appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. In this regard, as I return to the theme of our meeting, I must stress today that the Convention on Human Rights, which is widely celebrated throughout Europe, includes other tasks for all branches of the Ukrainian government: consolidating my efforts to ensure that human rights are properly protected at our national level in our native Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I invite you to address the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Nina Ivanovna Karpachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u12	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Representatives of religious communities, the diplomatic corps, science, the media, dear fellow countrymen! With the adoption by the Council of Europe of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms on the European continent, the process of establishing a quality new European system for the protection of human rights and freedoms has begun, which has become the foundation for national legal systems in all European countries. The European Convention for Decisions and Practice of the European Court of Justice is a modern treasury of the rule of law and respect for human rights. Taking advantage of today's opportunity, in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am presenting today's meeting with a special report from the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine: “The State of Ukraine's compliance with European standards of human rights and freedoms on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the European Convention on Human Rights”. This report provides a comprehensive analysis of Ukraine’s commitments to the Council of Europe as well as those arising from the European Convention on Human Rights and other European conventions ratified by Ukraine. The activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights in promoting implementation of Ukraine's legislation and the law enforcement practices of European standards are being examined by the European Court of Justice's decisions and practices on Ukraine. An analysis of Ukraine’s implementation of the observations and recommendations of the Council of Europe’s permanent monitoring bodies was presented in public for the first time. The ratification process in Ukraine was complex and even dramatic at the same time. He was actively opposed, it reminded us, by the way, of the dramatic history of the development and adoption of the European Convention itself, that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin told us in detail today. As Ukraine’s second vocation, I had to be the coordinator and co-connoisseur of the ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights. We remember how in this room on July 17, 1997, in fact, only from our third attempt did we succeed in ratifying this convention. By the way, today there are important people in this bed who were my colleagues at the time and helped me to get this convention ratified and to fulfill my commitments. This is Honorable Boris Illich Olijnik, who for 10 years was the head of the Parliamentary Delegation to the Council of Europe and the Honourable Vladimir Butkevich, who was actually the first judge of Ukraine in the European Court of Human Rights. But the law on the ratification of the convention was passed with warnings and statements. Ukraine's legal system, that is to say, has been very reluctant and painfully separated from the right of prosecutors to order arrests and search for housing. However, these rudiments continue to live. By the way, in the address of the President of Ukraine, we have now heard about the inviolability of human rights. In this context, I would like to say that a recent search without a court order in the office of the vinyl law enforcement group, removing the office of orthotechnics and 300 files with confidential information about refugees, is a powerful testimony to this. One of the priorities of the Ombudsman’s activities is to promote the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations to the Council of Europe, so on May 10, 1999, the Ombudsman of Ukraine addressed the President of the State as a guarantor of the Constitution with a request to publish the official text of the convention and only on January 10, 2001, your attention was given to the official translation of the convention in Ukraine. Thus, for more than three years, the actual operation of the convention in the national legal system was impossible. Ukraine’s implementation of the main requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights, including the protection of the law of everyone’s right to life and the prohibition of the death penalty, was the most difficult. First, we remember, there was a moratorium, then the Constitutional Court found the death penalty unconstitutional, then the ratification of two protocols -- the sixth and the thirteenth. And even after the death penalty was abolished in Ukraine, I had to be an ombudsman to protect the rights of our compatriots to life in countries like Thailand, China and the United States. As an ombudsman, I strongly support the abolition of the death penalty all over the world, because it is both a possible judicial error and the inability to remedy it. The case of Vladimir Panasenko, who was sentenced by the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region in 2008, was sentenced to the permanent deprivation of the will to organize an assassination attempt. In fact, life imprisonment was avenged by the collection of accounts in the business sphere. However, thanks to the abolition of the death penalty in Ukraine, we still have time to fight for justice. Honorable Meetingers! The right to life is directly linked to the prevention of torture and all other obligations of Ukraine arising from the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture, ratified by our country, by the way. The creation of human conditions in places where prisoners are deprived of their liberty requires an immediate state solution. To date, the practice of torture and acts that demean a person’s dignity, especially during arrests and arrests, has been unacceptable. Today, every report in Ukraine about violence or torture against people in police stations is being heard as a report from the battlefield. Regrettably, there are also cases that have led to the death of the detainees. In this regard, I cannot help but point to the fact that 20-year-old student Igor Indil was killed in the Shevchenkov Police Department. From the early days, I stated that this was actually a murder. The Ombudsman’s conduct confirmed that death was the result of violence and serious bodily harm. As noted in one of the rulings of the European Court of Justice of Wintervere v Netherlands, arbitrary detention can never be considered legal in 1979. But that is what keeping a student in a dormitory, in his temporary home, was worth his life. Sadly, in the Shevchenków Rávid department, the city of Kyiv’s militias became a system of similar activities. Only the ombudsman’s conduct has resulted in the beating and humiliation of human dignity in 2007 by doctors and employees of the Kyiv City Dental Hospital. At night, we went to this police raid. In 2008, the death of 30-year-old Tim Fedos, who was the result of his beating. At the initiative of the Human Rights Commissioner on July 21, 2006, the Supreme Council ratified an optional protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture. A national control mechanism to prevent torture should be created accordingly, I think, as a separate independent body with special status. I am addressing government representatives here, and I certainly hope to be heard by Mikola Janovich. And I ask you to find both financial and resource capabilities and to create this preventive mechanism in Ukraine in accordance with international and European standards. As an ombudsman, for his part, he is willing to contribute in every way to his creation and work. For 10 years now, I have been concerned with the fact that Ukraine remains in Europe with a number of arrests by the leader. Although according to European standards, Ukraine has transferred the post of sanctions for arrest from prosecutors to the courts, the situation in Ukraine is virtually unchanged. Today, there is a new wave of arrests in Ukraine. However, most of the arrests on any sign would have to be carried out, not by arrest, but by precautionary measures, which are undeprived, which are not related to the deprivation of liberty. Recently, I have had to endure a number of critical events from the leadership of the police regarding my position in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in July of this year regarding the recognition of unconstitutional article 11 of the Ukrainian Police Act, which refers to the detention of up to 30 people on suspicion of being involved in vagrancy. Thus, at a systemic level, the situation is halted when police officers, with the aim of detecting criminal offences and beating up appearances with due regard, may have misused the specified powers, applying this term of detention to any human being. Dearly Honourable Members of the Meeting! The issue of respect for the right to legal protection and failure to enforce judicial decisions is particularly acute in Ukraine. This has been discussed in this rostrum today. But I would like to point out that even the execution of decisions by the European Court of Justice in Ukraine today is only 9 percent. 616 rulings of the European Court of Justice, excuse me, out of the 674 rulings of the European Court of Justice only today, 616 remain permanently unfulfilled and are being monitored by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The problem of failure to comply with decisions of national courts. European. I think it should be seen as an emergency. It is no coincidence that the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced a special criminal responsibility for failure to execute a court decision, and part four of this article envisaged the removal of the will of up to 8 years for deliberate failure by a ministerial servant to execute decisions by the European Court of Human Rights. [[Article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] Failure or delay in the execution of decisions by national courts is a systemic problem in Ukraine, as pointed out by the head of the European Court of Human Rights, Jean Paul Costa. Honorable Meetingers! Freedom of the media and pluralism of thought is the cornerstone of democracy, and Ukraine must do everything to protect these European principles and standards. I would like to remind you that until now Ukraine has not fulfilled its commitment to the Council of Europe 15 years ago. It's about creating social television. Journalists in Ukraine still experience physical threats and violent acts in carrying out their professional duties. In the implementation of the Commissioner for Human Rights, there are two issues: the robbery of the chief editor of the rural circuit newspaper “Silski žilski” Valerija Ivanovski and the disappearance under unknown circumstances of the chief editor of the Kharkiv newspaper “New Style” Vasil Klimentiev. I believe that these cases, as well as the case of journalist Georgia Gongadze, who disappeared 10 years ago, should be thoroughly investigated without the news of the missing journalist Klimentiev, and should also encourage Ukraine to join the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Violent Action. In this regard, I made a special presentation a few years ago. In its last resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you know about this Resolution on the Functioning of Democratic Institutions in Ukraine, PARE expresses its concern about the increasing number of allegations that democratic freedoms, such as freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, freedom of the media, have been threatened. Our special session of Parliament takes place before the local elections. There's a hotline in the Ombudsman's office. I hope that statements from different parties interested in fair elections will be heard by the authorities, and that the authorities will ensure a level playing field for all participants in the electoral race, and will do everything and take all necessary steps to build confidence in the electoral process that is to be based on a broad political consensus. In my opinion, this should be a prerequisite for the adoption of a unified electoral code. At the same time, I cannot help but notice that recent regional authorities have opened hotlines for violations of electoral legislation. Even military counterintelligence units have become involved in the electoral process. Such total control of the election by the security forces is dangerous to the democracy of Ukraine. This was already in 2007, and I had to pay attention to the previous leadership of the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like to point out from this rostrum that neither the SBA Act nor President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine's decree of 16 September 2010 are putting forward any tasks to oversee the exercise of electoral rights during the election race for the Security Service. Ladies and gentlemen of the special session, in 2011, 50 years of European Social Charter were completed. This is one of the most important European instruments on socio-economic human rights. I am convinced that in fact the European Convention on Human Rights, along with the Social Charter and the Protocols thereto, is a kind of European pain about human rights. The very unity of these documents is a confirmation of the universality, integrity and interdependence of all human rights: civil, political, socio-economic and cultural. And by completing the presentation of the special report, I would like to point out that you will find an analysis of Ukraine's implementation of the observations and recommendations of all the permanent monitoring bodies of the Council of Europe. To sum up, I want to call on all the political forces of Ukraine to consolidate on the basis of real protection of human rights and freedoms. This is an important conclusion that we all have to draw in the 1960s European Convention on Human Rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u13	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna, for your speech. [[Applause]] I'd like to invite you to speak to the Commissioner. authorized, Governmental Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Court of Human Rights, Yuri Eugenovich Zaiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u14	Mr. Chairman, distinguished deputies, distinguished members of the government, guests, invited representatives of diplomatic representations. Well, it's hard for me to go into detail after such a thorough review and practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the application of the Convention in Ukraine and to correct, let's say, my speech, and I would like to focus on two aspects that are essentially interdependent. It has been mentioned on many occasions, the so - called interlacing process. During the Swiss presidency, an extremely important document was adopted that paves the way for strategic, say, reforming the European Court of Human Rights. The essence of this reform is that it focuses attention on the sharing of the responsibilities set forth in the Declaration and in the relevant action plan approved by this Interlaken Conference between the State and the Court. That is to say, attention is being paid to the strengthening, the so-called, the principle of subsidiarity. The European Court points to the problem, and the state must take all measures to resolve the problem. A few. I, as a practical, practically government-authorized person, is an official person who, well, informally called them, in every state of Europe there is such a position, it is called a ‘state attorney’. And as a practice, I can say that, in fact, on a systemic level, there is a problem, especially in legislation. Well, as a rule, the case of “Hull Against Ukraine” when the lack of the possibility of an indictment, the prosecution of an administrative arrest, in fact, resulted in such an avalanche to the European Court of Justice until the Supreme Council passed the relevant law and the problem was removed. Today, the European Court is giving us a problem about the possibility of application, and once again, there was a reference to the procedure, the pilot decision on the absence of a legislative extradition procedure in Ukraine, but the Supreme Council is adopting chapter nine of the Criminal Procedure Code, and I hope that the European Court will, in doing so, take the matter down again. So the state can prevent it. Today, the emphasis is shifting, the European Court of Justice, simmering down, in fact, has already talked about this, in the number of cases that are growing in geometric progress, and Vladimir Mikhajlovich said quite precisely that he became a hostage of his own popularity, he is moving the accent. This is a prevention for today. And in this context, I would like, again, to address the second question. Every day I have 10-20-30 cases against the state on my desk. Me, too. When I read them, I see that, once a lawyer would have been able to present this case in a different way and it would have passed before the European Court of Justice, and the right of a person would have been protected, but not knowing the formal aspects of acceptability, in fact, made it impossible for a person to obtain protection in the European Court of Justice, on the other hand, national courts -- the first, second, third institutions -- could have corrected it, but they did not. And that's why I think the key problem for today is that we don't have a systematic approach to legal education. Today, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights is read in the course of international law. In my opinion, and this is consistent, I think, with the ideology of part one of article 9 of the Convention, which says that international agreements are part of national legislation. This course should be read within the framework of national law. So in constitutional law, the fundamentals are: what is a fair court, what is the boundaries of interference in the state. States in human rights, what wisdom is. I remember when the judges didn't see it, I read a lot of lectures to the judges, they didn't understand the concept of "reasonable term" at all until it appeared in the codes and was prescribed. Basic things may need to be read within the framework of constitutional law and in the framework of sectoral disciplines, read in comparison with the European Convention on National Sectoral Disciplines. Unfortunately, no fundamental science today, no, let's say some methodological, methodological development does not. And I'm already, I'm sorry, I'm a little out of line, just one of those show times. I got a call from one of our distinguished officials, and they said we should make a questionnaire, a questionnaire, a European convention. And who will accept these tests from their fellow workers? And we're going to write the answer to every question and we're going to hand it out, and they're going to know accordingly how to answer it. All of it. That's the approach. If we don't shift the emphasis from the European Court of Justice to the national level, to the development of prevention mechanisms, we will pay from the budget all the time. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u15	Thank you, Yuri Evgenovich, thank you. I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u16	Dear head! Dear participants in a special meeting! Celebration at the high national level of the anniversary of the European Convention on Human Rights is a good sign for society. It shows that all branches of government are eager to make sure that human rights in our country are filled with real meaning. Unfortunately, it can't be done quickly, but we have to go this way. Instead of covering up human rights in political battalions, it is harsh to discuss the effective ways of securing them. To understand the depth of the tasks facing the President of Ukraine, the Government, the Parliament, let us ask ourselves a few simple questions. Does every human being know his or her rights? Is she able to protect them? Does the State fully implement the rights and freedoms provided for in the Constitution and provided for in Ukraine’s legislation? The answer will not be comforting. That is why, as today, it was rightly pointed out, there must be consolidated action, unified action, so that these questions would cease to be rhetorical. After all, we all need to understand what are the goals for which understanding is needed. And that is the purpose and, in fact, our direct responsibility is to establish and ensure human rights and freedoms. So our nation ratified the European Convention on Human Rights only, and we can say that in 1997 alone. But for the sake of objectivity, I will say that in time we ratified virtually all the protocols before the Convention. Social debates were not simple and the death penalty was abolished, putting above all, the right to life. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is constantly working on the development of the provisions of the Convention and other fundamental international treaties in the field of human rights in national legislation. I can name a number of valid laws of Ukraine in this area that are adapted to European standards, and more importantly, the laws that have been passed in the Council of Europe, the OSCE and other international structures. It is a law on citizenship, a law on refugees, a law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence, etc. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations will focus on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, since its main task is to provide human rights legislation. The committee is currently working on legislation on the organization of peaceful assemblies, on the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis, on the amendment of the Ukrainian law on the conversion of Ukraine to a better procedure for the consideration of citizens, on the prevention of discrimination against older and older persons and others. In particular, I want to pay attention to the drafting of the Peace Meeting Bill. The human right to freedom of peaceful assembly is enshrined in the general declaration of human rights and is guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Thus, the preparation of a law that regulates the entire range of issues related to the right of people to assemble peacefully has been ongoing since 1996. So 14 years in our country, we don't have one of the constitutional laws. And let's be honest, it's not just the problem of today's government that some people are trying to submit today. Such a law could not be enacted a year ago, and two years ago, and five years ago. Because when power and opposition change places, the laws are in the opposite direction. For example, today’s law on peaceful meetings has been passed by a previous authority that is now opposed to this law. Therefore, there is a need for social compromise between the authorities, opposition and the general public. The committee is trying to go this way. We heard about the bill on peaceful meetings involving a wide range of public organizations. A working group was formed that included Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of executive authorities, law enforcement agencies, and hundreds of proposals, in fact, hundreds of suggestions that came into the committee. And so far, the project is on expertise in the Venice Commission. We hope that the authoritative expertise and the main independent expertise will avoid unjustified accusations to Parliament, to the committee and to the chief, eventually this important law will be passed. The committee is working closely with the Office of the High Commissioner of the OSCE on matters of national minorities concerning the draft Law on the Restoration of Rights Deported by National Sign, and several meetings have taken place with Knut Wallebek on the committee that discussed the issue. At present, proposals are being processed for the OSCE bill and the preparation of the project for consideration. Another aspect that I would like to focus on is the need to strengthen the functions of parliamentary control over human rights and the implementation of the laws adopted, because they are declared and enshrined in human rights legislation, which in principle we have nothing without their real security, and everyone understands that. In this context, I will refer to the words of former UN Secretary - General Kofi Annan, who said: “It is time for governments to report to their citizens and to each other for the respect for the personal dignity that they often recognize in their words. We need to move from the era of legislation to the era of implementation. This is what our stated principles and our common interests require." The obvious human rights situation is illustrated by the appeal of citizens by the higher authorities, who are literally overslept with them, among other things, by the lack of proper organization of work in the grassroots of authorities. For man is not good - he seeks the truth in Kiev. That means she doesn't find her truth there, at her place of residence. And at many times, these are problems that can be solved by local governments. To sum up, today's special session has once again demonstrated that human rights issues need to be focused on clear tasks, and the latter, in turn, are converted into real and effective action, as the very model of approach to the problem is crucial for achieving the result. And here, we think, is the appropriate analogy: the pessimist complains about the wind, the optimist looks forward to changing the weather, and the realist puts the sails. So neither the “leaning” on the one hand nor the “manilova” fantasies on the other, and the daily, persistent, purposeful work is the way to the real protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and then the comprehensive, systematic and full implementation of the convention, the 60th anniversary of which is dedicated to our meeting. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-22-m0.u17	Dear participants in the special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you can see that this subject is endless and needs to be discussed, especially in action. And our special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was dedicated to the 60th anniversary of the convention in order to confirm our European identity, in order to honor those who produced this document. I'm sure a document that will only improve forever to make a critical look, and we can always do that, what happens in the Queen of Human Rights in all dimensions, and most importantly, what we should do next at the legislative level, first of all, at the level of executive power. And it's clear that human rights, they're boundless, they're going to develop, the main thing is that they're going to be consistent with our traditions, with our faith, and they're going to be serving people, progress, and, in fact, in Ukraine and in the human community. I offer my sincere thanks to all of you for participating in the special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I declare it closed. Thank you.
