ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:33]] Cards were registered in the 402 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies, Kunchenk Oleg Petrovich and Lemza Vladimir Dmitrovic. Please welcome the nouns, wish them health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 22 December 2010. Twenty-seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 6 laws, 2 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 2 bills were converted to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, and 15 bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! The two factions — the Faction “BUT – Fatherland” and the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” — ask, according to the requirements of the Rules, a 30-minute recess. But they're ready to make a statement now. One and a half minutes. It's always two, so there's no problem, please. Paul Zebravsky will be, and Andrew Pavlovsky is on his way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u2	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! For the first time in recent years, the draft budget will review the size of social standards not five times a year but only four times a year, which is a violation of social rights and guarantees for citizens. Prices won't stand at this time in places, they'll go up. The social standards in the budget have been significantly reduced. Compare: The actual subsistence minimum for workers in October amounted to 1,038 dollars, and in the January 1 budget, only 941 bracelets. Let me also remind you that in the early part of the year Presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovic was promised a minimum pension of $1,200, but only 750 in the draft government budget of January 1. No amendments to the opposition to social justice and to the promises of the pre-election authorities have been taken into account shamefully. And these amendments related to the minimum pension of January 1st, as promised, 1200 dollars, and the minimum wage of 1,506 dollars that would correspond to the actual subsistence minimum for the following year. Distinguished government spending on disabled persons, on material aid, and on the production of prosthetics. There is no increase in the minimum pension for orphans. This is the economy of power on children and orphans, this is the budget of poverty and the deterioration of life. Therefore, our faction, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, the Fatherland, will not participate in this antisocial farce, shame and the deterioration of people's lives. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u3	Paul Žebrovsky, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the faction authorized me to focus on three issues. First question. Yesterday's farce, and otherwise it can't be called, is a speech by the Deputy Attorney General, who actually did everything that those who were beaten and not by those who were beaten and refused to qualify as the beating of national MPs, and the persecution of those who were actually injured is a farce and it's a violation. And unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office is becoming not the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, but the Attorney General's Office of the Party of the Regions. We can't deal with this. And until the case is overqualified, we will require the prosecution to exercise all its powers. The second question is budget. You know, Mr. Azarov once said that he accepted the sixteenth budget. I'm in budget eight, in development and acceptance. Such a shameful set of documents in this budget was not to be expected. Today, attention has been focused on social issues. Clearly, the macro indicators are written by the IMF, the World Bank, some experts from our government, they're more or less decent. But the extra part is actually a disgrace. Because whoever the President wanted, he gave it to who he didn't want it to be, so he didn't give it to. And in general, the tip of cynicism is that when they're extra budgeted to the recreation zone in Hydropark, Mr. Lukyanov made that amendment. The government’s lending is unlimited — as much as it wants and without approval by the Supreme Council today. Again, it's not a budget, it's a set, it's a compilation of some sort of demands of high-level owners. And the third question is today's consideration of the candidate for the head of Nazbank. Let the young man learn and sell the shares for the time being, for this is contrary to the fact that Nazbank’s head does not have the right to own the shares. Considering that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u6	Taking into account the sterling role of parliamentaryism, the faction cannot participate fully in such meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Only Parliament can destroy parliamentaryism. Let's not ruin it. Dear National Deputies! According to article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint and release from office the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine at the time of the submission of the President of Ukraine. On December 21, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the release of Vladimir Seminowich Stelmak from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine in connection with his application for resignation. The President of Ukraine also submitted to the Supreme Council the appointment of Sergio Hennadiovich Arbusov as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am the first to discuss the issue of the release of Stelmach Vladimir Semenović from office as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine filed for the release of Vladimir Semenović Stelmak from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, don't scream for one minute! Dear colleagues! Please sit down now. Yes, please, from the committee on this subject, the head of the Committee, Alexander Pecklesenko. Please. Yuri Poluniev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u10	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! At a meeting of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking on 22 December this year, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Stelmach Vladimir Semenović from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine was discussed. According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine filed for the release of Stelmach Vladimir Semenović as Head of the National Bank in connection with his application for resignation. By its decisions, the Committee recommends approval of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Stelmach Vladimir Semenović from office of the Head of the National Bank. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! I remind you that in accordance with article 51 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, anything other than legislation is prohibited in the session room. And I asked my colleagues not to violate the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, in accordance with article 107 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, it is stipulated that the appointment and release of the Head of the National Bank is subject to discussion. Do you insist on discussing it? I'd like then, dear colleagues, one minute, to sign up for a discussion. Let's take 10 minutes on that. Dear colleagues, calmly, the Supreme Council is making a decision here. I'm voting on a proposal for a discussion for 12 minutes. Please, yes, vote. Please vote. [[10:12:28]] For 262 So 262 is in favour, so we made a decision. I'd ask for two minutes from the factions and the non-fractional, which Oleg Lazko insisted, and we'll be fine. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to take up much of your time, your attention. With regard to Vladimir Seminovich Stelmacha. I wanted to remind you all that this person has devoted her entire conscious life to banking, banking. He began his work in Ukraine, then continued in the Soviet Union, worked in Moscow, then worked in other parts of the world. And since the declaration of our country's independence, he's one of the first to return to Ukraine to build an independent banking system in Ukraine. So I'm asking you and I to thank Vladimir Semenovich, despite all the troubles and downfalls that have been. But I personally, as a 25-year-old person, when I monitor his activities, I personally thank him very much for working his whole life in the banking field. Thank you, Vladimir Seminovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u13	Yes. Please, will the Communist faction be giving speeches? None. From the faction of the Party of Regions? Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u14	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! You know, we've heard a lot in this room, but the so-called opposition doesn't say anything, or any new arguments. The first remarks they made were that we were all able to get to know the press that was supposed to be needed. There is no need to change the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine. But remember, there's a second wave of the economic and financial crisis. Vladimir Stemach has worked hard, but according to the Constitution and according to the law, I can give advice: it is already a deadline. We should thank Vladimir Stelmah and replace him. And the new candidate who's going to run for office, we can ask him a question. This is a young, experienced man. And you know, here. So we are following the constitutional principle of power, that is, continuity and acceptance of power. So the person who's familiar with banking, who's already been the deputy head of the National Bank, what kind of opposition do you still need? An expert. It's about his age. So, you know, we need to take care of the staff reserve, and age is not an obstacle to this position. Why? Because Mr. Arbuzov is able to accept this estaphet, which is left by a respectable man as banker for Mr. Stelma. And the last thesis is that we should thank Mr. Stelmach. He held Nazbank. And history knows that once and for all, young people worked in Nazbank. Remember, when Mr. Tihypco was leaving the National Bank of Ukraine, he was younger. So I think age, age is not an obstacle. This man will be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u15	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Then there's Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u16	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. We are considering a human resource issue today. But we do understand that our colleague was just talking about continuity of human resources policy. I would like to say today, taking advantage of the fact that we are discussing the human resources issue concerning the National Bank of Ukraine, but also the policy issue of the National Bank of Ukraine. You and I have experienced tremendous shocks, I mean the people of Ukraine, during the 2008 global financial crisis. You'll remember how the bracelets changed. Think about how our people who took loans in currency banks were affected and had to pay twice as much, without having to earn more because the wages were frozen. We, the Communists, in the Supreme Council Hall opposed the amendment of the Banking and Banking Act, which opened the way to foreign financial capital in Ukraine's financial markets. And today, Ukraine is overshadowing this completely insane decision that has been taken by the majority of the Supreme Council, contrary to the proposal made by the communists. Today, I would like to address the person who will lead the National Bank of Ukraine and say that the policy of the National Bank should be changed. The National Bank's policy should be aimed at protecting the economy of Ukraine's domestic financial market, which is what we unfortunately do not see today. It must be understood that the banking system today is not a donor of Ukraine's economy, it does not stimulate the development of the real sector of the economy, it is currently engaged in stupid and stupid speculation in Ukraine's financial markets. It's totally unacceptable. And I hope that the policy of the National Bank of Ukraine will be changed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u17	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Who will be speaking from BUT? Baby?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u18	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! There are traditions, normal, human traditions. When a person retires, a man of serious age, a man of great experience, says good words about the person. I think we'll do the right thing. More specifically, time will be given due to what was done during the period when Mr. Stelma was headed by the National Bank. I think his successor is going to have to do a lot of work to make sure that, as is accepted in a normal society and in a normal state, take those positives, take the best moments that the National Bank has ever done. And to eliminate, ignore, ignore those problems, those mistakes that were. And everyone knows about them, and that's what they're talking about today. And it's a very important moment. The National Bank is the regulator of commercial banks. I think the new leadership of the National Bank needs to take this function very seriously. Because of the prism of protection, it is primarily the interests of citizens, the interests of people, their rights. What was ignored over a number of years was primarily commercial banks. Our faction, the faction of the People's Party, had the opportunity, I say, to consult with the candidate for the head of the National Bank. I say objectively. I was impressed by a competent, modern man, a professional man in this area. But once again, I would like to stress that it will have to be done very seriously to ensure that the National Bank of Ukraine is identical or at the same level as the national banks of the major economies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u19	Thank you. Faction BUT, please, your statement? I can't see. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you will sum up the work of the Supreme Council on the previous day. So I have an offer to summarize the work of the Supreme Council on December 16 — five broken teeth, two broken noses, one broken jaw, and a rejected liver.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u21	Please, let's do it on the subject. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u22	Now it's about Stellak. Now it's about Stellak. Dear colleagues, it's about the dead -- either good or nothing. Stella, fortunately, is alive, and God blesses him. So let us speak objectively about him. You have a short memory. Those who go out today praise Stelmacha, remember how we, the 350 votes, voted twice to have President Yushchenk resign him. Have you forgotten about that? The Supreme Council twice declared that Stelmach was untrustworthy. And here are the members of the Nazbank investigation commission who know exactly what the National Bank was doing when it was run by Stemach. Let's think about the millions of Ukrainian citizens who have suffered from Stelmacha's activities, when he's artificially, in order for some banks to make money, to knock down a bracelet. I want to tell you, literally a week ago, I got, and I think that a lot of my colleagues in the Council got a letter from a young 25-year-old guy in the city of Krivi Rig, Sergey Brick, whose family is being evicted today, because he can't pay back the $30,000 loan he took on the course of 4 bracelets, and today he's being forced to return 8 bracelets. And he doesn't have that money. Both him and his underage child are being evicted from the streets. And such families in Ukraine are thousands and thousands. This is how they “thank ” Stelmacha’s activities. [[Squirrels]] Let's think about how much the National Bank, led by Stelma, has paid off to commercial banks: almost 80 billion dollars. Where's the money? Who among ordinary people, entrepreneurs, received these loans? No, because this money has been cashed out, and today our oligarchs are lying there, enriching our oligarchs. That's who.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u23	Thank you. Five seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u24	Thank you. I'm going to the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. It should be noted from the Council that these 80 billion, which were actually allocated for the refinancing of banks, were allocated according to agreement with the government. So the shared responsibility, let's talk about our shared responsibility, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the governments of all. Let's talk about this calmly, far away from the election. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Stelmach from office as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Stelmach Vladimir Semenović from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7498]] Please vote. [[10:24:17]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear National MPs, despite the criticism that has just been sounded, and which is just, including, I think we have good reason to thank Vladimir Seminovich Stelma for his long-term work at the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, I am announcing the appointment of Arbosov Sergy as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, has the floor. Please prepare Poluniev. Ah, Alexandra Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the head of State submitted the appointment of Sergio Hennadiovich Arbuzov as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support the appropriate submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexander Pecklesenko, head of the committee. May I have the committee's decision, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u28	At a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Banking Finances on 22 December 2010, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Arbusov Sergey Hennadiyovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, was considered. The Committee recommends by its decisions that the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the appointment of Arbusov Sergey Hennadiovich as Head of the National Bank be approved. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u29	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please, Your Honor, let's do it this way, from the faction of two minutes traditionally, yes, as we agreed. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. I'm just going to represent the faction, and you're going to figure out who's going to act. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u30	Dear National Deputies, the distinguished candidate for the head of the National Bank! You don't know yet, of course, all of Ukraine, but all of Ukraine today is aware of the problems that are in the banking system, in monetary and credit relations, in the monetary and credit policy of the country. And if you solve at least some of these problems that I'm going to hear right now, you're really going to be the country's main banker. These are the problems that will stand before you. Today, beyond the banking system, 160-190 billion is rotating. Every year it comes from our employees, from 5 billion to 8 billion. The shadow economy rotates from $12 billion to $15 billion. These are the two budgets of the country that are rotating outside the legal economy. Various experts from Ukraine estimate that between $20 billion and $50 billion have been exported to a credit resource that is a resource of another country. This also needs to be brought back to us. Today, there is a difference of $350 billion as a result of the country’s failed monetary policy. The dollarization of the economy and the tinning of the economy -- more than 50 percent, gross borrowing today -- 105 billion dollars at $30 billion in gold reserves. In the hands of the population, even more money is the guarantee of the stability of our state. Today's deformed fiscal policy compared to monetary policy and today's high activity of foreign banks that absorb banks with national capital and we lose financial security to everyone. With every year of our country, and this is part of our independence. So, Mr. Sergio, if you solve any of these problems, you're the country's chief banker. And if the National Bank turns into a kind of mutual assistance fund to solve budget problems, budget deficits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u32	If you solve any part of these problems, you will become the country’s main banker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u33	Thank you. From the Communist faction, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. From the faction of the Regions, Alexander Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the Company's faction will support the proposal to elect Sergey Gennadievich as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. What wishes would you like to express to the person who will be responsible for the very serious direction of work? This is primarily the creation of the National Bank of Ukraine as a Ukrainian bank, not as a transitor for services, in fact, the interests of various factions, especially foreign capital and the protection of the dollar. Not the bracelets. I therefore believe that today we have the right to express our wishes to Sergei Gennadievich and that the National Bank today should seriously consider how to support the real economy, the stable low interest rates of credit that will enable it to choke the national economy today and make it competitive both in the internal market and in the external. I believe that today the National Bank must support concrete, real economic segments: either it is a steel industry or it is an energy, a building where we will have a real job increase and, of course, increase the well-being of the people. We must also think very seriously today that the National Bank should be a strong supervisor in commercial banks. We must end today the system that has been in place for all the years of so-called independence when commercial banks have established their mafia structure for the destruction of the national economy and the speculative operations that are being carried out here. I hope that my colleagues who have spoken before will not only speak beautifully when it comes to saying so but will do practically what is necessary for the banking system. I think, Sergey Gennadievich, you have a huge challenge: to destroy the corruption that we have. Because President Yushchenko was leading the banking mafia before that, who has caused so much trouble, that today you wonder how much longer he's been in the President's chair. I would certainly like to reiterate that the activities of the National Bank have been carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u36	The activities of the National Bank should be subordinated to the interests of the Ukrainian citizen and the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u37	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Who's it gonna be? Sergey Greenewecki of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, when I joined the Committee on Financial and Banking, I faced a number of problems and almost the only person who was a communicator and a responsible person by the National Bank, Sergey Gennadievich. I can characterize this person in four months' work as a very contact, accessible, professional person, a person who can solve complex issues in minutes, maximum of an hour. We have a clear agenda today with the National Bank. The first and main task is to prevent banks in the country from robbing the population and the country. We will do our utmost to ensure that the banks that have been set up under corruption schemes are brought to justice and that the villains who use them are brought to justice. Second task. For transparent law-abiding banks, an environment must be created so that they can work and increase. The most important task is to protect the interests of our investors. No investor in any bank should be harmed because the license of any bank is subject to the State seal and the State in response. I like that Sergey Gennadievich has responded to our request for credit unions. He understands the whole problem, the gravity of today's situation of fraudulent investors in credit unions. We agreed on a solid work, a solidarity programme. I am confident that with the arrival of Sergei Gennadievich, the National Bank, the banking system and the country's economy will develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u39	Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The National Party faction supports the proposal by the President of Ukraine to appoint the head of the National Bank, Sergio Arbuzov. As my colleague said, a professional person is truly impressed, and if you look at career growth, it is the career growth of a banker. I would like to wish on behalf of a faction of such a confident career as Head of the National Bank, considering it to be one of the areas that provides national security. And given that the banking system has been around lately. The International Monetary Fund and other institutions have dealt with it very carefully, and given that we are now working on the new Constitution, and the National Bank is the subject of the legislative initiative, we expect productive changes in the banking system. In particular, it's to enable the development of regional banks, independent banks, to be able to lend local self-government and regional socio-economic and cultural development programmes, and most importantly, to support a domestic producer. And in that regard, Mr. Sergei, we wish you success.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u41	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Sergey Hennadiovich, is a candidate for the head of the National Bank! I think it would be absolutely right to listen to your report, at least permanently, on plans for a new job. I think that many citizens of Ukraine, especially businesses, especially banking companies and private businesses that depend on banks, on the banking system, get credit, would be interested to know how your policy will change compared to the policy that is being managed today by the National Bank. And I think it would be interesting if you were to answer a number of questions that are of interest to the public. Someone blames Mr. Arbosov for being young. I think it's just the smallest flaw that's going to happen very quickly. Therefore, the younger the better. Enough of those pensioners in the banks in the Supreme Council! Stelma received one and a half million wages this year, and 130,000 dollars of pension will be paid! It's Arbouz's retirement, as far as the sky is concerned. Do you understand? He won't even think about retirement. But the most important thing he will think about and, most importantly, do, working in this position, is very important. [[The biography shows that a person is a professional banker]] It's very important that you stay away from the pressures of power, even though they say you're a representative of the "Donutian family," you're an outcast from Donetsk, but you're still a professional banker. And I understand that you realize one very simple thing, that money is the blood of the economy. Without money, there is no economic growth, no rise in the standard of living of citizens. And that's why Nazbank's task is not to be guided by foreign advice, but to be able to get credit for the economy, so that money is available, so that people can raise their assets and make the economy grow. This is the main task that I think you should be the head of the National Bank. It's absolutely the same for me, whether you're from Kiev or Cherkas, that it's important for you to do the job you're going to do in Nazbank's headship in order to do it professionally and in the interests of Ukraine, not in the interests of the oligarchic clans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Question completed. I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Arbuzov as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. According to article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint Arbusov Sergey Hennadiovich as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:38:31]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in favour of 282, the decision has been taken. The Supreme Council of Ukraine would like to welcome Arbusov Sergio Hennadiyovich in connection with his appointment as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, I would like to announce to you the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State Policy on Solving the Problem of Return and Compensation for Loss of Savings of Citizens". [[depreciated]] [[April 13, 2011]] Why don't we just vote on the decision? Well, then let's do it in a simplified fashion. Please. I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm going to vote. [[10:39:36]] For 222
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u44	Offer supported. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, author of the bill. Get ready for Pellcake.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u45	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are national MPs, members of the faction of the Company: Simonenko, Matviev, Cibenko, we are introducing a draft decision for your consideration, which provides for parliamentary hearings in April 2011 on the theme “The State policy on the solution of the problem of return and compensation for the lost, undervalued savings of Ukrainian citizens”. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Act, “On amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Savings Recovery” on October 1, 1996, the debt amounted to 131 billion dollars. The prescribed law provided for a certain system of return. But by January 17, 1997, changes had been made that ruled out the state’s debt for lost savings. And from that point on, we've had a system of recovery in accordance with the law. You all know that our citizens are suffering today. At all the meetings, they call upon us, the national MPs, with firm demands as soon as possible to return the savings they have stolen. Public organizations are forming, people are expecting concrete results from us. But in the previous organization of our work, we had differences in how we could get these savings back. So the Company's faction has offered, let's take a closer look at all the proposals, conduct parliamentary hearings, base these concrete actions, and produce the mechanisms that we're going to use to our electorate, and we're going to guarantee the return of these savings. It's made money. This is the money of our parents and mothers. This is their destiny and future. I am convinced that the people's deputies support our proposal to hold these parliamentary hearings, and then we will work with you on specific mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u46	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklusenko, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u47	The committee had an understanding and responsibility for the proposed parliamentary hearings. We are well aware that this is one of the most painful and most injuring to our population. Practically all the deputies who work in the districts know that 50 percent of the people who come to the reception ask, "When are you going to pay us back?" You're the one with us, the State. I'll do it again. The bank may be commercial, but the right to work or not to work rests with the State. And the State is obliged, if the bank has broken down, to return the citizens with their blood money. Therefore, I very much want these parliamentary hearings to not turn into another speech, where we will tell our people how much money is needed, how hard it is to pay them back. We need to find a concept and a clear programme, scheduled by year. We must make it clear that every person and every single one of his lost rubles is guaranteed to return. We need to be realistic. To make a commitment to the State and people must be sure that the money they stole would be returned if not to them, their descendants to the kopeck. With this philosophy, we want to hold these parliamentary hearings. Adam Ivanovich, I believe that the committee responsible should not only be ours but also the Committee for Social Policy. This is an inextricably linked problem, so I think it will be right with our committee to prepare these parliamentary hearings. I very much ask the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u48	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u49	I very much ask the Cabinet of Ministers to take the most serious preparations. It's gonna be hard. It's gonna be hard. There aren't any of ours and yours. There are our citizens here who have to get their money.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u50	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Since the third call of the Supreme Council, I have led the working groups eight times to vote on a variety of bills that have been called back to savings. In this session hall, there were repeated parliamentary hearings at which we made our recommendations. The laws don't work, the recommendations don't work. So I'm going to make sure that we really, honestly, specifically, approach this problem with our eyes open. We need to understand, only in the complex, only in the systemic sequence can we approach the solution. I'll start at the end. Remember, Your Honor, the bill, I think, of Cibenko, Simonenko, about the Crimson. When it was sold for 24 billion Creebrisstal, we passed the law to return 9 billion to savings. What did this give us? 37 percent of the deposits would be closed, 5,000 dollars. We don't have a register. This year alone, the Official Register of Investors has been officially approved. We need to find out what these 131 billion of us are, and we are constantly apprehensive because on January 1, 1991, we had zero in our citizens’ savings accounts in Ukraine! Costs were written in the Soviet Union’s Savings. He's an advocate of the Soviet Union of Russia. It's going to be extremely difficult to talk to Russia about these costs. Well, that's the last of it. I didn't happen to say good will. Until the bill is passed by the government, we will always have the same picture with you. Different ideas, different approaches, vetoes the law. The bill is to be introduced by the Ministry of Finance to find out what amount Ukraine should borrow as a sovereign debt and develop a system of issuing these funds. I don't think this problem is solved. With good will and joint action, we will resolve it in a short time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u52	Thank you. Alexandrovska Alla.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u53	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, I hope that today the Chamber will support the offer of the Communist faction and personally Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko to hold such parliamentary hearings. I am, of course, afraid that the BUT faction and most of our Ukraine have left the room. This means that they do not want to support our proposal because there is a question of the number of votes. I think that this vote, on our proposal, will demonstrate a real attitude to Ukrainian citizens regarding the most serious problem affecting the majority of Ukrainians. 132 billion, 130 billion, may be less than that — today it is difficult to tell how much money really needs to be returned to people. Because unfortunately, investors are dying. Today we have voters who are already 90 years old, and they say, well, I can get my 10,000 rubles, which I earned in Soviet times, working as a major specialist in one of the enterprises in the city of Harikov. And I can't answer that question. On many occasions, the Communist faction has introduced legislation that could help solve this problem. You remember, in the 1990s, we passed a law that we could solve the issue of deposits for seven years, both in cash and in cash. Unfortunately, at the time, the President vetoed it, and we were unable to overcome it. Since then, we have twice introduced legislation, sometimes other factions have compiled our proposals, but no decision has been taken. I believe that the hearings are necessary because the budget that the Government is offering us today is not going to spend any money on the payment of the contributions. This is the real position of today's Government. And we Communists can't help but resent it, and that can't stop us from doing it. I therefore insist that today's vote reaffirm our attitude towards this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u54	Thank you. Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u55	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to apologize immediately for speaking to a certain skeptic on such a subject would seem to be a very popular subject. The sceptic is produced by two things. Obviously, no point, little bills to solve this global issue will lead to no result, because we're going to look at or not, that's more than 100 billion, that's more than 100 billion, and that's not in Ukrainian currency. And second moment. Any company, and we've witnessed this company, can't solve this. And that's why the author of the legislative initiative correctly formulated the topic, in my opinion, of parliamentary elections, on state policy. That's true. If it's not about government policy, it's about wishes, it's not going to happen. And that's why this problem has become a serious burden for Ukraine, and Ukraine has to pay off these savings, although let's be honest, it's not her fault that at one point huge money has been transferred to the neighbouring state. Not Ukraine, but Ukraine has become a hostage. And it has its citizens to pay off, and it has its national function. Therefore, it is correct to hold parliamentary hearings with the formulation of “State policy” for the return of savings. And I would very much like us to professionally and seriously prepare these parliamentary hearings so that it doesn't go off the hook, so that it doesn't go into the whistle, and that people know the schedule, the possible recovery schedule. It will be better than words, declarations, and promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, one minute Arjevetin and Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u57	Peter Mikolaiovich's offer is very clear. Although Peter Mikolaiovich calls me Arževitivism a threat to the economy, I am indeed with you in this matter. And today the price of this question is 132 billion dollars. According to today's estimates, it's already 180 billion dollars, and under inflationary compensation, it's 480 billion dollars. But the problem is, the problem is that the ability of economic reforms is precisely determined by the overall savings effect of the nation. Since these problems have been solved, we can solve the problem of involving a global resource in Ukraine of 450 to 550 billion dollars in hand. We are a nation with a rich internal reserve, a resource, with a rich, but every year we become increasingly dependent on other countries, the International Monetary Fund. Although lately, you see, the memos don't match our national interests. So we have to do everything we can to mobilize this resource, and only then can we carry out structural reforms in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u58	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u59	The topic is very topical, and I will vote in favour of this motion. But, you know, we're going over the subject again. Parliamentary hearings are proposed in April 2011, which means that at least in 2011 millions of Ukrainian citizens will not be able to wait for their contributions again. You know, my colleague Lukyanov pointed out a very good idea that if all governments paid money to those over 80 years of independence, then to those over 70, we would be paying money to those over 60 today. And that's how we've only been saying, saying, saying, saying, and not giving money back to people. And in the draft budget that will be approved today in the Supreme Council, there's not a penny to pay off the deposits. This is the policy of the state, even though today’s authorities have promised to pay off these deposits. Therefore, I demand that the next year’s funds be earmarked and that parliamentary hearings be held in order to decide how to solve this global problem in general. Because we're not going to pay all our deposits in a year, but at least we're going to signal to society that the current government is ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u60	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u61	But let's show society that today's authorities are ready to do their part.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I inform you, my dear colleagues, as well as those who listen to us and see that it is anticipated that after the implementation of Ukraine's State Budget in the first quarter, changes will be made in the form of proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this regard, by the way, the President of Ukraine is also stressing the provision of funding for the return of citizens' savings. I think that we will strengthen this work by holding parliamentary hearings, and thus practical steps will be taken to address this extremely painful subject. Honorary colleagues, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "On State policy to address the problem of return and compensation for the loss of citizens' savings" on 13 April 2011. [[Registration number 7460]] Why April 13? It's the only day we've got left, because all the other months are busy. Please vote. [[10:55:40]] For 260 The solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u63	What, what? I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u64	The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u65	Oh, by the factions, please: Region Party – 171, “BUT – Fatherland” – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 17, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 27. [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons, Basil Hara, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u66	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, Aleksandr Nikolaevich Pecklusenko proposed that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour be sent for the preparation of these hearings. And the committee headed by Hellhound will be there with us. Please note this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u67	Dear fellows, I think we should do it this way. Given your suggestion that one committee is in charge, proposals from all other committees to the committee are generally made and a single line is produced. Because if we define two committees, we're definitely not going to hold parliamentary hearings. That's how they agreed. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing the issue. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7450]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valeriy Alexiyovich Baranov. Please, let's go straight to the repairs. Your opening statement and your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! Before considering the bill, it should be pointed out that its task is to reconcile budgetary, tax and other legislation with the aim of avoiding legal conflicts in the budgetary process, particularly in the formulation and approval of national local budgets for the following year. This prompted the committee to work with a balanced document in quite short periods, the results of which are set out in the comparative table that you have in your hands at number 7450. It should be noted that the proposals that have entered the comparative table reflect the position of the National Deputies on the organization of legislation and take into account the observations and proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. In particular, those who need changes in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code. In addition, given any tax issues are regulated only by the Tax Code and cannot establish or amend other laws of Ukraine, a number of proposals have been taken into account that eliminate contradictions with other laws that impose certain tax rules to date. Thus, by December 21, the Committee on Budget Affairs had been working on 121 proposals for national MPs of the bill, of which 84 had been supported and 37 had been rejected. [[by abbreviated procedure]] At the same time, I'm proposing an amendment to number 65, which we write as being rejected, to take into account because it's a technical error. In general, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill amending the Budget Code and some other Ukrainian legislative acts, number 7450, on second reading and generally as a law, as proposed in the comparative table, by a final draft of the bill. Please support the decision of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. 1st Amendment. Jaroslav Jojik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u70	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give me your word first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u71	What? Procedure defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u72	I point out to the head of the committee and to the head of the Supreme Council that all my suggestions concerning several articles were arbitrarily all set out in the same amendment. So I'm asking you to give me the floor to make every proposal for every article I'm proposing, not the way they were arbitrarily sorted all into the same amendment. It's my request by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u73	I think so. You did participate in the committee meeting, didn't you? And they were obviously defending these amendments. The committee concluded that it was necessary for integrity to be, not a broken document. He has the right to group the amendments, but you have every right to an argument. First amendment, please. First your amendment, the argument about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u74	In recent years we have witnessed an actual chronic budget failure. And today, we have a situation where the government, for its own sake, essentially decides which articles to finance to the full and which ones to underfinance. Because budget sequestering procedures in the current budget code are not properly established. So it's proposed by this group of amendments that I'm proposing, and it's suggested that we introduce a concept of a budget sequester with a clear special mechanism, which is a proportional cost reduction of 5-10 and so on in case the budget is not being implemented. In this way, we will avoid situations where without Parliament’s knowledge, the government decides which articles it will finance, which it will not finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u75	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that obviously this is a problem for Parliament, that we have little control over the budget implementation process, and the government cannot allow anything to be done that does not work. He is obliged to make proposals for the budget sequester, here you are absolutely right. But we have to control, first of all, the budget committee and everyone else. That's why I'm putting your amendment to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourselves. It's the 1st amendment. [[11:02:26]] For -6 No correction supported. Correction 2nd. Please, Jaroslav Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u76	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Well, first of all, I would like to point out that our presence, the representatives of the Ukrainian People's Party, is, first of all, to support the position of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", which left the conference room with the requirement of retraining the criminal case that took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u77	Yes, unplug the microphone! Either you speak on the subject or you can't. We don't need political demonstrations here! Please, please, on the subject. Jaroslav Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u78	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. By the beginning of the last global financial crisis, it was considered perfectly safe for the borrower State to have a sovereign debt-guaranteed debt ratio of 60 percent of the annual GDP. And this is the level of government that the Ukrainian government is proposing. But recent events show the extreme danger of a great debt to the State. In doing so, it should be recognized that the problem of debt is not only about its size but also about the length and cost of its service. If the governments of developed countries are involved in the payment of 2x, 4x, up to 5 years and up to 30 years, then the developing countries, which Ukraine refers to, are forced to involve at least twice the cost and with a maturity of no more than 3-5 years. It is not hard to recall the conditions of the previous year’s government. This creates a risk of huge losses for Ukraine’s budget. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u79	Thank you. Yes, it's vote number two. [[11:04:43]] For the Correction not supported. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u80	Just a minute. Correction three, it's counted. Well, please, Yuri Carmazin's microphone. I'm asking the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am completely in solidarity with the faction that requires the retraining of criminal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u82	Turn off the microphone, please. Yeah, let's go on with the repairs. I've asked you, Your Honor, to correct it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u83	I have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u84	You have a minute, just essentially a question. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u85	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have my moment, please don't comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u86	I want to say again, just essentially the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u87	We now have amendment number 3, in which the word “the Supreme Council” is replaced by the words “the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues”. I believe that this amendment is anti-constitutional because the issues that belong to the knowledge of the entire Supreme Council are constitutional issues, including the issue of amending the Budget Act, the reconciliation of all matters with the Budget Act, including the issue of the Budget Code. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, do you not understand that now, by amending this Budget Code, you are changing the rules of the game itself? And the budget is being prepared, and now the next question is based on a non-existent code. Even if you now vote in favour of this code, it will not be signed by the President right now, which means it is illegal to ask questions on this basis to consider this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u88	The point is, Your Honor Yuri Anatoliyovich, the honourable colleagues that we're going back to the practice that was that any change is consistent with the committee, because if you take the Supreme Council, you can interpret it differently here, whether it's with the Head of the Supreme Council, or whether it should be brought to the Supreme Council's consideration. So here we have a proposal, by the way, on which the budget committee insists, and it's obviously the right thing to do quickly, but professionally and responsibly. Obviously, we need to trust a committee with representatives of all political factions. So I would ask you not to insist on confirming this amendment if you agree. May I, Yuri Anatolyovich, not insist? Sure. Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment four, Jaroslav Jojik, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u89	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Valery Alexiovich! There can be no situation in the rule of law when information on the situation of planning and execution of the income and expenditure portion of the budget is closed. And it's very often the result of what we have today when the new authorities come and then open criminal cases against the previous one. The government and the local authorities are collecting and spending not their own money, it's the cost of all Ukrainian citizens, so all information on budget planning and implementation needs to be fully accessible to the public and the media. The same applies to information about all expenditure incurred and budget recipients. My proposal makes it completely public and public in fact all state finances and, in fact, leads to the fact that the new authorities will no longer open criminal cases against today's authorities. So I'm asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the offer was considered on the committee, and it's correct, but it's already counted in the budget code completely and it's not a novelty. Moreover, Kabmin is now working to introduce the “Transparency Budget” program in which every citizen of our nation can go online and look at all the income and waste parts of our budget and the whole process. So it's all taken into account, and it doesn't have to be brought here twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended as number 4, by Jaroslav Jódzik. [[11:09:33]] For the Correction not supported. Amendment number six. Coolokov, Blackwolf, Lisov, Rybak, Carmazin. Who will act? Blackwolf, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u93	Dear friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u94	Ah, Kulikov, I'm sorry, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u95	For the first time in the history of Ukraine, an attempt is made to destroy local self-government in the following way: not to include all or part of the income tax from citizens to the local budget. [[this does not have a value in this case]] This is done on the basis of the city of Kiev, removing almost 7 billion dollars from the city’s budget from the city’s budget to an additional 1.5 billion, already being removed in a direct manner in the face of the same existing legislation. So it's only formally sounding at 7.5. Seven billion, because in fact there is usually a resurgence in Kiev. In fact, it could be 8 and 9 billion from the city budget. Therefore, the proposal and it is supported by deputies from all factions to remove this situation from the Budget Code and then from the 2011 budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u96	Kirilo Kulikov, please. I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues to do it quickly. Then Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u97	I've spoken to him repeatedly. Kirilo Kulikov "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I have repeatedly addressed this issue, and the committee has discussed this issue on the committee, and most people support it. This is actually supported by the committee. Colleagues, I'm asking you to listen. This is really true of Kiev. I don't understand why the cynics are guilty of being robbed by the authorities for four years. There's no trust in the power of the Chinese. You've changed power. There's the head of KMDA. There are those who are responsible for the theft of the city’s budget. This is Chernewicki and his young team. Release Kiev without it, but leave money in Kiev for Kiev to develop. Today, what's going on in Kiev, see this, and it's going to be even worse if this amendment happens. It will be disregarded, our amendment, all deputies from different factions. This is the support for the city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I also think we should leave 7 billion in Kiev. I want to say that this is a collapse for Kiev's economy. One collapse, that's what's happening right now. And the display of subway guns, anything else that was done five, four, three years ago. And now it's starting. I want to tell you that not only do you need to make changes to the budget code. Then you have to make changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the city hero of Kiev. And you don't. Moreover, the Court of Auditors wrote to you that this is all illegal, that you are hiding 1 billion 316 million dollars of income yet! And that's what they're made of -- rent for natural gas, confiscated property, own income, etc. So there are sources. Stop touching Kiev, leave him alone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u100	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u101	There have been many discussions on this issue in the committee. The discussions were very tumultuous. But the majority of the votes are accepted by such a proposal as is set forth in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! On this point, I would ask that we find understanding. Yesterday and late in the evening, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Presidential Administration discussed this issue. And they agreed that we should leave 50 percent. Because the calculations showed that at this point, if you put this problem and you solve it positively, first, you have to reverse the budget once again. And secondly, removals from the city would be greater if we count how many people are coming to work in Kiev. And a number of other problems. But once again, there is a suggestion that we go back to this issue for the results of the first quarter work and in principle find such an agreed, consensus position. And if you insist, I will put him to the vote. At the same time, such a request. Well, I'm voting on Amendment 6. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u103	Please. Please. The problem was discussed in a comprehensive manner yesterday. No one wants to do worse, everyone wants to do better. And I support this idea. Please. [[11:14:38]] For-9 The Supreme Council did not support it. Let's move on. Correction 15, Costenko, Jojik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u104	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The establishment of a ban on the provision of material aid to workers at the expense of budgetary resources, the average monthly salary, taking into account all the allowances and bonuses, which according to the State Department, is three times more than the average monthly salary per country, is linked to the cynical and immoral situation in which almost all the published declarations on the income and property of our seniors, including the national deputies, receive a large salary, can be seen as “material assistance”. At the same time, the size of this one-time material aid is higher than the average annual salary of the vast majority of our citizens. If we urge the citizens of the country to stretch their belts, they must have moral dignity and responsibility and begin with themselves. So I'm asking a colleague of the pro-power coalition to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u105	I'll bet you a vote on the 15th amendment. [[11:16:16]] For -6 No correction supported. Yuri Anatolyevich, what correction did you insist on? Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! There is a change in the article. It was written, “The rate for transit transport of natural gas”, is now replaced by the transport of natural gas pipelines. Natural gas is transported not only by pipelines but also by other means. There are countries where there are no pipelines at all, but there are still no rents. That's why I want to ask the committee head. You made that amendment. Don't you think this narrows the budget down? And then, according to your answer, I want to make a decision about the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u107	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, we don't think as you said, because transit transport by pipelines is actually happening in different ways. So our amendment in parentheses says, "unless otherwise is established by the State Budget Act of Ukraine," they are regulated by other legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u108	Yuri Anatolyovich, do you agree? Then, Your Honor, I'm going to put Amendment 8 to the vote to confirm it. Please vote to confirm the eighth amendment that the committee has taken into account. Please vote. [[11:18:35]] For 217 We're not back. Dear colleagues, I ask you to relax after that and for a moment after we accept the budget. These documents are interconnected. I'm voting for the 8th amendment. And let's work. [[11:19:06]] For 262 We're back. I'm voting on amendment number eight. Please vote. [[11:19:27]] For 260 Correction confirmed. Yeah, we're moving on. Amendment 17, Jaroslav Jojik. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u109	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. This amendment to article 51 refers to the only state-owned register of persons entitled to social benefits and social assistance at the expense of the state budget. The difference between the position of the government and the Ukrainian People's Party on this issue is the following. The government considers this register to be just an auxiliary mechanism to perform its functions. Instead, the Ukrainian People’s Party insists on the formation of a single public register of people receiving social benefits and social assistance at the expense of government and local budgets. Budget implementation is not possible without clear control over spending, and in Ukraine social spending management remains the most opaque. Various benefits, allowances, pension increases have become a real hole in the budget. To stop this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u110	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u111	The Ukrainian People's Party believes that stopping the process of dissolving money can be done through the publication of full information on the social spending, including the use of benefits, higher payouts and pensions in a public way, I stress. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, vote for Amendment 17, Jaroslav Jojik. [[11:21:37]] For-7. Correction not supported. Amendment number 18, Jaroslav Jojik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u113	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you. You've repeatedly talked about the fact that we need to get back to work in a state-of-the-art regime, in the presence of the entire Parliament. That's why I'm personally asking you to support the position of the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" regarding the appeal to the Attorney General's Office to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u114	Turn off the microphone. I inform you that it has been agreed with the faction that when the Supreme Council of Ukraine votes to consider providing information to the Attorney-General on the legal assessment of the last conflicts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the faction will work. In view of this, I convinced other factions to vote in favour of this decision. We voted, now you want to train the Supreme Council of Ukraine and including hidden, hidden advertising of the Ukrainian People's Party. Come on, pay for the commercial. [[Applause]] And you are acting as a national deputy of Ukraine, so go ahead and speak. That's why I'm voting on Jaroslav Jojik's 18th amendment. [[11:23:14]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Then it's the 19th. Jaroslav Jojik's microphone. You're filming, aren't you? Okay. Thank you. Let's move on. Kirilo Kulikov. Amendment 21. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u115	This amendment is identical to the city of Kiev, which is no longer counted. I just want to say that the logic, the fact that many Ukrainian citizens go to Kiev, there are no businesses that work in Kiev. And the main tax that accounts for the city of Kiev is a tax on natural persons. We have it in Kiev today, and this is confirmed by the Supreme Council by a decree of the Supreme Council, a catastrophe. We are in a very difficult condition. Today, Kiev's budget is to leave the capital behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, let's do it again. The thing is, there's a problem, and let's go back to it in three months. And so it seems from the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is an agreed position with the management of the city of Kiev. Clearly, the problem is, and the position of the President, I had a conversation yesterday on this subject, informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it is also concerned about this problem. We're looking for a compromise to start the 2011 budget process, then we'll go back. I would ask that we keep this issue under control and then return to it. Yuri Anatoliyovich, 22nd Amendment, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a part of the first article of article 65, which reads: “The incomes of the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol account for 100 per cent of the total income tax on individuals paid under the Ukrainian Tax Code in the cities”. End of quote. I want to tell you that Kiev was deprived of the election at first, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, then deprived of the rights of Magdeburg, and now the Chinese are already depriving themselves of the right to life, because there is a threat, and you know well the threats that there are, and the platinum, and all the other things, and the uncleaned waste, and everything else about Kiev. And the last. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you were talking about an agreement with our faction that would be information from the Attorney General's Office. I'm telling you clearly that what we heard yesterday was not information, it was misinformation. It's too big.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u118	Thank you. I'll bet the vote on the 22nd amendment. [[11:26:14]] For-7. Correction not supported. Next amendment, Yuri Carmazin, 23rd. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I just wish she was identical right now. It's not identical, but it's relevant to what's actually the same standards that I'm talking about right now. And that's why I suggest you think about what's going on right now. We change the rules of the game, the Budget Code, when we adopt the budget. We have already adopted the Tax Code, which is made in violation of the Code of Budgets, and we are trying to introduce it now. So maybe we should give up adopting this law now or we should adopt it for a future period, not for this budget? I have a question for the head of the budget committee. He's a very wise man. Think about it, please, so we don't do worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u120	I have already said that there have been many discussions about this issue, and this was confirmed by Vladimir Mikhailovich. That is why this problem is, and it is likely to be solved in the following year according to legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u121	It's the 23rd amendment. [[11:27:57]] For the five of us. No correction supported. Shentz, the 24th, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 25th. Jaroslav Jojik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u122	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Perhaps, as you are constantly in the Presidium and are constantly conducting the session, you too may be reprimanded in your advertising of the Block of Lithuania. So I'm asking you not to answer, as they say, unknowingly, but essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u123	Please! Unplug the microphone. Once again, I remind a distinguished national MP. I never do advertising, if I'm announcing a performance by a faction of a representative, I never call it a party or a block. Notice that. And please, when you speak, the amendments are made by the national MP, not by the Ukrainian People's Party. And let's follow the rules. I'll bet on the 25th amendment. [[11:29:04]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Yeah, let's go on with the repairs. 28th Amendment. Jaroslav Jojik's microphone. It's counted, I'm sorry, it's counted. Let's look at the next one. Your 32nd amendment is off-limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u124	I'm filming it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u125	You're recording, thank you. Let's move on. Amendment 36. Jaroslav Jojik, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u126	I'm filming, I'm not insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u127	Okay. 38. It's Mikola Ivanovich. No, it's not. Schustik. 39th. No, it's not. 40th Amendment. Do you insist on it, Jaroslav Jojik? Are you insisting? No, you don't. Next. 43rd your amendment. No, it's not. Mountain. 44th. No, it's not. Sphinx. 46th. No, it's not. Bondar Alexander. 51st. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Voropeyes. 54th. No, it's not. Snack. 53rd. No, it's not. Sphinx. What's that? 45th? Now, let's go back to 45. She's counting this 45th. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin. I want to address the head of the committee. We are told that this amendment is included and is proposed in the Oil and Gas Act to replace the word “ auctions and auctions” with the words “market auctions and market auctions”. I'm not saying that these changes don't go to the Budget Code, they go to the Oil and Gas Act. It's a separate subject of regulation, and obviously we have to look at it separately. But narrowing down the auctions on the stock markets is actually lobbying the stock markets. Maybe let's take a picture of this amendment or see if you have any part in it, most of you. But what I'm looking at, for example, is that someone wants to lobby the stock market. I'd like to ask the committee head to see the auctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u129	Please, Valery Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u130	Dear Jury Anatolyovich, the committee is of the opinion that such offers for market auctions offer more harsh or harsh auction requirements, where more money can be saved and more cheaply purchased.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u131	Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Amendment 45 is taken into account by the Committee. A national MP requires an amendment to the vote to confirm it. Please vote Amendment 45 to confirm it. [[11:32:52]] For 267 Correction counted. The next amendment is the 65th. You said it was counted, it's technically wrong, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u132	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u133	Next. It's the 69th. Arzheviteen, is he insisting on her? No, it's not. Microphone, please. What is the amendment to Europe?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u134	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u135	What's that? Yeah, I missed it, I'm sorry. Voropeyev, 60th Amendment. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u136	I'd like to draw your attention to this amendment, why? My amendment, I don't understand why the State is trying to deprive itself of the right to receive dividends over the past years. My right also allows the State to obtain dividends from the distributed profits of the past years if no such decision has been taken by shareholders before. That's the first one. And including the shareholders themselves, getting some of their profits over the years. And the second. There are certain deadlines for financial reporting, auditing, holding shareholder meetings and decision-making. This amendment will settle all of this. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u137	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, here, indeed, was adopted yesterday by the Act on Shareholder Associations, and I would therefore ask that Minfin's position be declared here on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u138	Please, Fedor Jaroshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u139	That's 58th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u140	No, it's the 60th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u141	The '60s, yeah. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u142	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u143	But we do have a discrepancy that came out of the law that we passed two days ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! There is a proposal, and the Cabinet of Ministers supports the 60th amendment of the national MP Voropeyeva with a small complement. We propose in paragraph two of the first paragraph and the final sentence to replace the sentence, yes: “by taking into account the requirements provided for by law”, yes, delete it here, yes, to exclude it, and it is proposed that it be “according to the law”. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u145	Don't you agree? I don't think so. Please, Voropeyev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u146	I understand you're proposing to accept the 60th amendment, in addition to the legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u147	Yes, according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u148	So tell me about it. That's another thing you're saying right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u149	Nope. It's consistent with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u150	Are you suggesting we take it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u151	I'll take it. Yeah. And complete with the words “according to the law”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u152	So it turns out that according to the law that we passed two days ago. Right? Is that what I'm saying? Is that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u153	No, it's not. There's active legislation on stockholder societies, so we're laying down a rule that's in accordance with the law. But let's count the lines of Voropeyeva. Yes. Absolutely, yes. Agreed position, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u154	Then let's do it this way. I will put to the vote to support the amendment of Voropeyeva with the addition “according to the law”. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[11:36:41]] For 256 Correction accepted. Yeah, we're moving on. 65th Amendment. And once again for the transcript: it's the 65th committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u155	Yeah, yeah. There's been a mistake. Therefore, the request to take her into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u156	Yes, the Voropeyeva 68th. No, it's not. The point is, when the committee reports, it's technically not properly written that it's accounted for. It's the 75th. What's that? 60? 72nd, Alexander Stoyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I'm actually wondering how I could have gotten here an article that predicts that the Social Insurance Fund, its budget, should approve the government if this fund has approved its deficit budget for some time. The fund is self-sustaining. It's: social insurance, temporary disability, employment, these funds are formed at the expense of the workers. And they have no bearing on the state. They are managed on a tripartite basis — employers, governments, and trade unions. And so to include this position that the fund should, the budget of the fund should be approved by the government, have no relation whatsoever. I insist that this is a violation of the laws, a violation of the Constitution, so that this article in general, article 13, is deleted. If it's not removed, I have an order from the foundation to sound it, it will be done through the court. The state has nothing to do with self - control funds. Please put to the vote and delete this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u158	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. There were also many discussions with this amendment, but the committee made such a decision. Since the fund also has government money, the state has the right to manage and watch these funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u160	I'll bet the vote on amendment 72. Please identify yourself. Dear colleagues! Right, correct, I'm asking you to calm down. The amendment of the Stoyan People’s Deputy was not taken into account. So I'm voting to support this amendment. If it's supported, the position is removed, no, it stays. Please, Minfin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u161	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, the Ministry of Finance supports the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on amendment 72. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:39:58]] For-30 Correction not supported. 69th Amendment, Arjevitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u163	Dear National Deputies! 69th Amendment. And I would like to reiterate to the committee that this position is shared by the National Bank of Ukraine. And here's a copy of a letter that he asked the committee to delete this article 9 because the proposal in this bill is submitted to a different law. Because on July 8, 2010, we passed one law, and on July 9, we removed that rule. And so it turns out that there's a proposal for an inactive editor. And so from these technical issues, I take it, the legal department will make a similar observation that proposals have been made before the inaction. And the National Bank sent a letter to remove this rule. So, I'm addressing you, please remove it. Because we've made an offer to a nonexistent standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u164	Valery Alexiyovich, please, the committee's arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u165	The committee considered this proposal and concluded that it does not comply with the National Bank Act and the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u166	So I'm voting on the 69th amendment. Please identify yourself. [[11:41:39]] For the Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u167	71st Amendment. Please, the microphone, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u168	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It is a matter of amending the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses. Here, taking into account this amendment, it turns out that now, if not approved by the Fund's administration by September 1st of the year, which is ahead of the Fund's planned budget for the next year on a real non-deficit basis, the draft budget of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for approval will be submitted within a week. And it's still in the text. So a completely independent institution suddenly becomes dependent on the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers approves their budget. Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's not stuck anywhere. What changes can this be to the Codex Budget? So I'd like to hear what we're counting for, what the minister of finance and the committee thinks. I understand that the Minister of Finance is interested in everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u169	Please, committee, Valery Alexiyovich. 71st Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u170	I've already told you that the committee has come to a conclusion that if there is government money somewhere, they need to be monitored and watched as they are used for purpose. That is why we have made that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u172	Confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 71st Committee is taken into account. But at the request of the MP, I'm voting on the confirmation of Amendment 71, please vote. [[11:44:12]] For 263 Correction confirmed. Next amendment, Friday, 75th. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 74th counted. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we've only just made contact with you since the Tax Code, and we've got some changes to the Tax Code. I would like to stress, Vladimir Mikhailovich, when we need the Supreme Council's apparatus, when we need most, we include article 116 of the Rules of Procedure Act. You don't have to, you don't have to do anything under the Tax Code, and suddenly, article 116 of the Rules of Procedure doesn't work for you anymore. It's about changes to the Tax Code, where these are the texts, the big tax payer for which it's still going on. I insist that this is a violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Act, and this article should not have been voted on. And the next amendment, which was rejected, also applied to changes to the Tax Code. We're looking at a completely different law right now, and there's no such thing. In the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this law is called “To Amend the Budget Code and Other Laws”. And it's about bringing a number of other laws into line with the Tax Code. Hence, there is no contradiction with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. So I would ask a distinguished colleague not to insist on voting. I want to say again that this is about. The name of the law is “To amend the Budget Code and other laws”, including tax. But you, as you demand, will be put to the vote. May I have your attention, please? It's 116th, read the conclusion of scientific and legal administration. Please. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the confirmation of the 74th amendment, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[11:47:08]] For 260 Correction confirmed. Let's move on. 75th, Petaovka. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Spinov, 76th. Oh, no? Yes, we're still counting, we're counting. 121st Amendment, Gorina. Are they insisting on her? No, it's not. Thus, honourable colleagues, all the amendments taken into account, this indicates that the committee worked very carefully. Please, Minister of Finance, Feder Jaroshenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It is proposed to reject the offer of the national MP Baranova number 78. In this regard, it is proposed that chapter I of the bill should be drafted in such a way. Article 525 of paragraph 2 of Section XI of the Act on the Status of Judges in Ukraine after the words “The Law on the Status of Judges” of article 56, article 142, article 203, article 268, article 434, article 79, article 102, article 322, article 180, article 353, article 18” in addition to the words “Articles 43 and 44” in force of 1 January 2011, replace article 43 with the words “Article 43 of the fifth, article 13 of article 44, which falls into effect from 1 January 2011 and part one of article 44, which falls into effect from 1 January 2012”. [[Report of the Supreme Council 2010, No. 4145]] What are we talking about? This is about paying for the judges’ work next year. remains at the level of the current year and will be introduced as of 1 January 2012. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u177	Thus, honourable colleagues, made proposals from the minister of finance. We need to confirm them or not confirm them by voting. I'm voting on an amendment proposal that has just been made by the Ukrainian Minister of Finance's Office. Please vote. [[11:50:45.]] For 262 Correction counted. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are taken into account and agreed upon, agreed upon. The committee proposes to adopt this project as a law in the second reading as a whole. I'm voting on this proposal. Take down the vote. What else, Fedor Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u178	There's an amendment to the 65th. Request to return to her and vote. Count it. As for the permanent detention of the judges. Amendment number 65. The Cabinet of Ministers supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u179	The point is that we took this amendment into account, as the committee head said. We counted the amendment of 65 Lukyanov. There was a technical description. Correction included in the 65th. For the stenographer. Dear colleagues, all right? Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7450]] Please vote. [[11:52:16]] For 266 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov is attending the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The other one. Dear colleagues! There's a suggestion that we don't take a break at 12 o'clock, work until 14 o'clock. From 14 to 16 hours, the results of our Titanic activity were worked out, and from 16 hours on, they continued fruitful work. Is there no objection? Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[11:53:07]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the issue of the 2011 draft State Budget for Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules, dear colleagues, we must first listen to the Minister of Finance, then to the head of the committee, and then to the decision-making process. I invite the Minister of Finance. How much time do you need? Procedure defined. What other procedure can we take? Dear colleagues, we haven't made any adjustments yet. That's what they're going to talk about right now. Fedor Alexiyovich, how long do you need? In 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u180	Let's cut it down. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! First of all, I want to thank all the people's deputies for their constructive and intensive work in preparing the 2011 State Budget project for second reading. In particular, I would like to thank the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been able to look at all the proposals made in a very short time. We've worked together more than 1,000 145 amendments to the project. And today, the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council will present its vision to each of them. We tried to meet all the reasonable wishes of the people's deputies, while maintaining the balance and integrity of the state budget. We've taken into account the maximum possible range of proposals made by the national MPs. Our cooperation, once again, confirms how important it is to follow the procedure for adopting the state budget in two readings and allowing time for submission and consideration of proposals. I want to point out, ever since Ukrainian President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic led the government, we have always tried hard to comply with the budgetary legislation and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Even in the current year, taking into account the two reforms that have been undertaken, we are still meeting the requirements for discussing and considering the draft state budget in the Supreme Council on two readings. It was only in the spring of this year that we were forced to approve the state budget, immediately in general, but this opposition simply left us no other way out by turning the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a “fight theatre”. But this is not the only exception to the rules, and in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 the State Budget projects were submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the proper time and considered with strict compliance with the procedure. And in 2007, 2008, 2009, this position was quite reverse, and 2009 was completely out of budget. Unlike the predecessors, our government does not avoid parliamentary control. We understand that only through open discussion can we create a perfect budget that will match the stated strategy “from the economy of patience to sure economic growth”. We supported the proposals of the Communist Party's National Deputies to increase the financial resources of the Law on the Children of War and Veterans of the Great War, to increase the minimum pension and subsistence minimum, to increase the financing of undervalued savings, to increase the funding of youth programmes, to lend to the ITL, to credit and education and to increase the financing of the Artec and Young Guard children's institutions. You are all given comparative tables, as a result of a review by the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of the proposals of the national deputies. We fully support the positions of the committee that were approved yesterday. I just want to take some positions on increasing social spending. In addition, 40 million dollars have been added to the publication of textbooks. The school bus program has increased spending by 25 million dollars. There is a 130 million increase in health expenditure, of which 52 million will be directed to cancer treatment programmes in children; 25.2 million will be the TB programme; 16 million will be the HIV-AIDS programme; 13.8 million will be the treatment of cancer. In order to implement the Government’s program of lending to young families and housing, it is also proposed that 40 million dollars be spent. It is also proposed to increase expenditure on the development of an agro-industrial complex. In the next year, there is an increase in the cost of paying war children. Approximately 500 million dollars are proposed to further finance the socio-economic development programmes of the regions. These costs will be spent on rebuilding existing schools and building new schools, hospitals, gas and heat, transportation, and energy infrastructures in the regions. Additional allocations will also cover expenses for the protection of regional cultural heritage. Yeah. And seven tenths of a million dollars will be allocated to the city of Deaf in Suma to do restoration work. We do not give up further increases in social standards until next year. But this will not be done because of the depletion of the economy, but because of the hard work of all branches of government aimed at securing an advance forecast for economic development. We will make every effort to get better results from the first quarter than predicted. And then we'll go back to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a proposal for an increase. increase further raising of social standards. I would like to make another amendment to article 19, which deals with the increase in public social expenditure for low - income families. In the text of the law handed down to you, you read: “And for children aged 13 to 18,” and I suggest that you apply: “and for every child aged 13 to 18 years.” In general, a balanced document is being introduced on the basis of the effective work of the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the second reading, which will ensure that the strategic tasks assigned to our state are carried out and that it will protect the interests of every citizen. Thank you for your attention and for your support in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u181	Yes. No questions asked. This is the second reading, what questions, dear colleagues? Just a minute. Dear colleagues, there will be an opportunity, I think the performance is coming from every faction, we'll figure it out. And put your position on the line. Please, Valery Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u182	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! As a result of the review of the draft State Budget Act 2011, a first reading of the Committee on Budget Affairs was commissioned, together with authorized government representatives, to work very closely on the bill and proposals of MPs, committees and national deputies for it and to prepare 22 December for consideration in the second reading. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the deadline for submitting proposals for national deputies, committees and factions was limited to December 19th, inclusive. So all the proposals that came after that date could no longer be included in the table and considered by the committee. I emphasize that this was the decision of the Supreme Council. A total of nearly 2,000 proposals from deputies, committees, factions, were processed by the committee, with a total of 1,000 167 proposals. Estimated and accounted for in part - 460, rejected - 707. The need for an additional budget to take into account all these proposals is an estimated 184 billion dollars. The draft budget confirmed the impossibility of the State to implement all previous commitments. People have become hostages to the chronic political population. For many years, the budget has lashed out holes and had no strategic breakthroughs and reforms for the community. The Committee stressed that the process of budgeting and implementation should be open and accessible to every Ukrainian citizen. Today, for the first time, the draft budget is taking a step towards the expected changes. Reforms have begun and are the only necessary step towards eliminating problems, not the traditional heroic fight against consequences. There's a chance to put order in our house. To start paying off the accumulated debt and to create incentives for economic development, to provide decent support to those who need it most. The political will to do so is evident. The understanding of society must be shaped together. And then the budget can be a guarantee of the stability and development of the state. Today, the budget can be only economical, structural changes without which there is no future. At its meeting yesterday by a majority of votes, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on the state budget for the following year in second reading and generally as a law. In the materials given to you, there is a comparative table with the final text of the bill, as well as government-produced additions to it. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that we have one mistake in how it got into our text, and I'm asking you to take it into account. A mistake that we have been confirmed by Deputy Zuravko regarding the financial support of social organizations of people with disabilities. An error is the amount given instead of 55.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u183	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u184	Instead of 55952,6 bracelets, 51 million bracelets have been mistakenly identified. And I'm asking you to consider it. Please support the committee's decision and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u185	And what is the decision of the committee, once again, to emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u186	Committee decision: recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u187	Yes, thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Let's make a statement from the factions now, shall we? And then let's move on to making a decision. Let's do it this way, three minutes away from the factions. That's 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] And one of the non-fractionals is Oleg Lazko, traditionally. 18 minutes, please. Factions, please. Let's sign up. From factions. And the non-fractional we counted 3 minutes, that'll be 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, keep quiet, I won't apologize. Would you please sign in? Names. Yes, Blackwolf, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Mikhailo Chechetov will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u188	Dear friends! I want to bring to you the point of view of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". We think it's the worst budget in the history of the Ukrainian state. So it's obvious that we're not going to vote for this budget. We all do. And I'd like to draw attention to the fundamental flaws that we've referred to over and over and over again. Still, he wanted to count it. First. All of the indicators presented as basic macro-indicators are groundless. This also applies to the basic principles of Ukraine's monetary policy. Obviously, next year, we're going to go back and forth to this budget, make adjustments to it just because it was designed, and its development was not justified. No matter what has happened since he was first introduced, there have been no special changes for three months. And there's no change in the structure of what we've been given in accordance with the President's decree, so we've developed it on a non-existent basis. So the main money managers aren't the ones that are actually in the countries right now. This budget is extremely poor in its own approach to local budgets. And what the government is proud of, because it's reducing the distribution of gross national product through a budget by 1 percent, is actually a questionable achievement, because in the whole world, right now, in a situation of economic crisis, they're increasing. But this was done mainly by local budgets and social programs. What they did with Kiev is a disgraceful situation at all. When 50 percent of the basic income tax was removed from the citizens. This is the basis of any local self-government, this is the income we've always accrued. In this case, yes, today this is how Kiev was treated. Tomorrow, you will destroy all the local self-government in Ukraine. What is more, you want to take both incomes from the earth and manage the earth without local councils, that is. So, I want to say that from this point on, we don't have self-government in Ukraine anymore. But I want to do it again, and the budget process is not there, because this has never been considered before in Ukraine. Never before have they budgeted on a non-existent tax basis, it has never been the case that the Budget Code is first adopted, then developed on the non-existent Budget Code and the non-existent Tax Code, all the basic indicators of this budget, and then the back figures are corrected. And then all the laws that are in place are not incorporated into the entire legislative base of Ukraine. So once again, the faction “Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u189	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechtov refers the right to speak to Vladislav Lukyanov. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u190	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! The 2011 budget is adopted under extremely difficult conditions. I'll only get one number: 90 billion dollars are spent on the last team's debts alone. That is, all of these expenses, if the authorities had gone so far as to be responsible for their obligations and not to impose debts on future generations, would have been much better and easier. But I won't focus on the problems. I mean, even in this extremely difficult situation, the government has shown maximum responsibility and consideration. It was clearly included and included in the budget, in the nation's main asset, the largest number of issues affecting social development that affect ordinary, average citizens of Ukraine. Even between the first and second readings, dozens of proposals have been made that have increased health expenditure to finance very complex and important problems. For example, more than 130 million dollars have been allocated to health programs, cardiovascular health protection. In addition, funds were allocated to meet obligations under legislation to provide for children of war. A number of programmes have been provided to support and develop Ukrainian culture. So this government is the development and support of our Ukrainian nation, our Ukrainian people. Much more has been done, and not only has it been funded, but the programs that directly affect Ukrainian citizens have also been funded. And in this situation, we didn't go to populism, we saved those costs that ensure macroeconomic stability. They provide a stable rate of bracelets, low inflation, and gradual economic development for the next year. I believe that this budget is a budget for the restoration and growth of the economic state, even in the extreme conditions left by the past team. Thank you for your attention, and please support the budget as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, now alla aleksandrowski, a faction of communists, has the right to speak. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u192	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government! You know, honestly, anything you can expect, but when they say one thing and do another, you can't expect that. Because it's totally unacceptable when we're told, "We've increased so much," they call hundreds of millions of bracelets an increase in social assistance and not a penny per child of war. We're being told that social programs are increasing -- not a penny to pay off citizens' contributions. We are told that very strong social assistance goes to the regions, and on the school bus, our proposal, we have proposed that only 10 million increase the funding of textbooks for poor children so that children can get textbooks free of charge, our proposals are not taken into account. The representative of the Party of the Regions, I will not name the name, he also supports our proposal, he also made a similar proposal. And he says that the amount we have here for textbooks is only a third of the need to provide those children with free textbooks. This proposal is ignored entirely. Increased funding to support youth housing, and we understand what a huge problem this is. We say, the Government says, the President says that construction will get us out of the crisis. Right, the construction industry is mobile, energetic, there's potential, you have to build, and it takes money to do that. Young families need quarters, young doctors need to go to rural areas after they have completed their budgets. Teachers have to go to the countryside in a variety of ways, and they also need housing. Agriculture, we want farmers to work there, they need housing. But we do not listen to the offer of Communists who speak of the necessary increase in these needs for these purposes. You know, we're starting to talk about the subsistence minimum again, based on the prices of 2000. I made a proposal from the Communist faction, and Petr Nikolayevich made a proposal from the Communist faction, to revise the minimum standards of living, because the consumer basket and the 2000 prices are taken. Today's 2010. Look, can you lie to people like that? Moreover, the subsistence minimum is declining when we consider social guarantees, for example, to provide free nutrition for the child in pre-school education. in a preschool institution. And there is a restriction on the subsistence minimum for the family. Why are we doing this? On the one hand, we give money for the birth of a child, we increase the amount, and on the other hand, we demand that this money be paid by parents for a child when he goes to kindergarten. In short, 360 million is very good that the Government is committed to creating jobs in the coal regions. It's really scary to see, whole cities are empty, abandoned, mine closed and there's nothing for people to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u193	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u194	But at the same time, I made a proposal, we have cities where a state-owned enterprise is destroyed and the whole city is unemployed. For example, in Kharkiv province, this is the town of Pervomaysk, the "First Maid of Hymprom". It's destroyed, it's not working, and the whole city doesn't have a job except on the market. Let us make these 360 million, including cities, to the district centres at least, the regional importance of which is such a situation. Our proposal has been ignored. It is therefore a matter of whether or not we should cooperate with such a budget if the budget is not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u195	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u196	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a small discussion about who has received more budgets: some, eight budgets, and others, sixteen budgets. But I think we should stop and finally tell the truth about every budget. In recent years, the underfunding of social benefits has been 20 billion a year, and no one has said that. We make it look like everything's okay, the budget deficit is huge, the income part is high, the spending part is expensive, high and we think we're always going to be that way. So it seems to me that the very desire to stop and make a real balanced budget should be welcomed. This is the first moment. One second. We're gonna need realists. In recent years, the state has taken 400 billion dollars in debt to pay off. For 2011, there are 78 billion dollars to be paid. Of course, it would be very good not to pay off the debt, that 78 billion, and direct it to the social part, to the social sphere. Whether it's real or not, I don't think anyone wants it. And that's why I think the People's Party faction needs to adopt a balanced budget. The fact that the deficit is projected at 3.5 percent is good is correct. This suggests that the population, the people, no one was going to lie about this budget, would obviously not be. On the other hand, I would like to suggest that we now make some amendments, one goes through, one goes through, the other doesn't make an imbalance in this budget, because the worst thing in the budget is imbalance, uncertainty. And one more moment. Obviously, we need to watch and monitor the implementation of this budget of those budget articles that are in the proposed budget either through the quarter or after six months to return to the budget and perhaps make appropriate adjustments. But once again, I would like to emphasize what I have already said. We cannot continue to deceive people without the possibility of covering all social costs, 20 billion underfunding in recent years cannot continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u197	So let's end the factions. Two minutes from the non-fractionals, Láško and Taras Czarnovil. Oh, no? All right, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u198	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Oleg Lazko. I'll be there in two minutes to say what the government is hiding. The government tells us that the budget should be economic, because, you see, all the predecessors have stolen something there. They won't save their lives. Expenditure on the President's Administration -- almost 1.5 billion -- added 400 million compared to today's. Expenditure on the Supreme Council added 140 million dollars between the first and the second readings. Expenditure on the Attorney General's Office is a billion compared to today's. To the Ministry of Internal Affairs, plus 2 billion. The Security Service is 500 million. For the treatment of officials is 200 million. The Chernobyl population is 30 million. For sanatorium and smoking, that government and all the other officials are 150 million. That's what they don't have the economy of patience, they have the economy of luxury, the economy of full consumption. And when it comes to people: the salary increase next year is 60 dollars per year. Retirement increases are 50 dollars a year. Let Prime Minister Azarov tell us what his pension is, what his salary is, let the whole country know! And let them compare the millions of citizens who have pensions and salaries and who pay government officials who retire from the finance minister who pays them. And then we'll realize that for the authorities, the economy is growing and for the poor, there is no money. I'm asking for the Chernigiv region, I've asked, I've made a proposal, an area that's the first place in Ukraine in terms of mortality and the last place of birth, I'm asking for 100 million for socio-economic development. The government says no. At Petrovsky's Cultural House in Donetsk, 50 million for reconstruction. There's money for that. There's no money for war veterans. There is no money to buy cars for the same war veterans. And 300 million dollars for the purchase of a plane for the President of Ukraine, there is money in the government's budget. And about the cooperation that the Minister of Finance is talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u199	Yes, thank you. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u200	For the first time, I've worked on the budget committee for five years, and for the first time, I see the government completely ignoring all the opposition's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u201	Thank you, thank you. Yes, Your Honor, now please, Minister of Finance, microphone, please. And invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you very briefly that the questions that Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna had just raised, we discussed with her yesterday, and I reported on it yesterday. What the government has done is to balance and take into account the proposals for making changes as a result of the second reading. And we've shown that there is understanding on the whole, and in particular, the government has increased and accepted the proposal to make an increase in spending: by textbooks, by 40 million, by school bus, 25 million, by spending on war children, more than 30 million, on expenditure in the field. I've already told you what article. To treat children with cancer -- 52 million -- to combat tuberculosis -- 25 million, to combat HIV-AIDS -- 16 million, to lose loans for young families -- 40 million. Support will continue to go towards raising social standards in the first quarter and the first half of the year. Definitely these social standards, they are on the government’s extremely strong agenda, and the government will do its utmost to increase the costs. We've finished working with you on the draft State Budget Act 2011. This is a document that will allow practical implementation of the 2010 reforms. This document will also ensure the steady growth of social guarantees and economic development. The State budget for 2011 reduces the tax burden on domestic business, expands the financial capacity of local budgets, reduces Ukraine’s debt, which is a real contribution to the economic policy and security of our country. So I urge you all to vote today and to adopt the State Budget Act in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u203	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. [[Applause]] Yes, please, dear fellow Members, there is yet one more minute of clarification from the committee. Please, head of the committee. Take it easy. No, I can't. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an editorial amendment, we have made a mistake, and I very much ask you: the code of the functional classification of expenditure and the credit of the 0431 budget. It reads: “protection of work and enhancement of safety at coal-fired enterprises”. And it's suggested that we add, well, it's still in the text. It's very important. We didn't count it. Please support this amendment. And I propose the adoption of the law as a whole in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the talk the name Alla Alexandrowski was mentioned. One minute on the line, please. The Supreme Council is about to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u206	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I need less than a minute, because I actually trust documents. If they're called numbers, I want to see those numbers in the table that we're given. Unfortunately, I saw something completely different in the table. In contrast to our proposals, for example, the textbooks of 10 million 888 thousand are “accounted for”, and the figure is, if I am correct, 50 million, now, here, under the arm of the document, what was before the amendments to the first reading. So is it counted or not counted? You show me the document because you can say a lot, and there won't be any results. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u207	We respected colleagues are listed there because we had many discussions on this subject and a number of insistences. And under the stenogram. I want to say it again. Dear colleagues! There's a stenogram, and we're going to be more specific about the transcript. Please. Please, the Ministry of Finance, please tell us how many have been added from those positions that are currently being debated? Say it again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u208	In addition, once again, I repeat that the School Bus – 25 million, textbooks – 40 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u209	Well, we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u210	Health protection: tuberculosis – 25 million, HIV-AIDS – 16 million, oncology – 13 million, child oncology – 52 million, cardiovascular disease – 22 million, mortgages on young families – 40 million, war children – 30 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u211	That's what they added, dear colleagues, in the process of discussion. Please! That's a plus for what was predicted. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. There is such a proposal that, when we make a decision, we put forward a mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine based on the results of the implementation of the budget in the first quarter to provide relevant information, to make proposals for an increase in expenditure on articles that are extremely sensitive in social terms and on which national MPs have been focusing. The same is true of the first half of the year. And I propose that we vote that, as a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have the opportunity to have proper control. Dear National Deputies! The proposal was that we decide to approve the State Budget project so that we don't vote for the amendments now, or we break the agreed positions. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. Please vote. () [[Noise Nodes]] [[12:30:31]] For 252 Decision taken. I now put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011 (registration No. 7000). [[Noise Nodes]] I am guided by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Noise Nodes]] [[12:31:07]] For 279 Ukraine’s State Budget 2011 was adopted. () [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! And now I ask you to vote on the proposal that we will make as a decree. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, as a result of the first quarter’s work, make proposals for changes to Ukraine’s State Budget in part of the increase in funding for social expenditure-related articles. The same, according to the six-year budget. Please vote for this proposal. Please vote. About a quarter and a half. And it's all over every block. [[12:31:59]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Please sign up, five minutes of motive. Sign up, five minutes. In a minute, please sign in. Five minutes. Can I have your last name? Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u212	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I'll be honest with you. It was very difficult for me to vote for one simple reason: for the first time, I say again, I did not hold the decision of the budget committee on the bill. It's never been like this before. I therefore reiterate that either the budget committee will set up its work or there will be no work in the High Budget Board. And I support the proposal that, after the first quarter, we will demand and insist that serious adjustments be made to the financing of socio-economic programmes. These include youth and education and schooling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u213	The People's MP Davidenko is transferring the right to speech to Jaroslav Jojik, the faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Later, Láško will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u214	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Recently, the whole country saw the Kiev City Council making a decision, not on documents, but on document numbers. Today, the Supreme Council, headed by you, is on a path where an extremely important document, the budget of Ukraine, is adopted essentially without discussing the rights of the people's deputies. Do you not think that in this way you will lead the Supreme Council and its leadership to the level that Chernobyl and its team have reached? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u215	Oleg Lazko, please. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u216	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Supreme Council has just voted on the Budget Act for the following year. This law will allow a merchant of people sitting in that bed, sitting in the government and in the presidential administration, to make billions of dollars in taxes in his pocket, stealing them through opaque tender procedures, through lobby projects. At the same time, you won’t even be thrown off your bar table. What a budget they just accepted! And when the Head of the Supreme Council urges: let's quickly vote, he knows what he's calling for, because there's his interests in this budget. That's why they refused to discuss all the amendments to the national MPs because they fear that people will see what a terrible document has actually been voted on in the Supreme Council. It's a disgrace! It's a shame! It's a violation of the rights of national MPs, it's a lie to the electorate! The promised improvement of life will not take place this year, nor in the following year, nor in all years, as long as this authority rules our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u217	People's deputies, I confirm that I have a special interest, it's called: State interest. And I would ask you not to scream in the session room if someone's personal interest is not taken into account. () [[Applause]] And don't be so hard on the charges! Please don't scream. Take it easy. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't abuse me. Next. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u218	I'd be wondering what kind of money this guy was screaming for right now put his boards up, and he thinks someone's gonna like him, especially knowing his biography. In the last few seconds, I'm handing over Hell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u219	Please, Oleg Zarubinski. Dear colleagues, read the Rules first, and then you will shout. Oleg Zarubinski, please. I beg you, let's not tear down the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u220	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I see in the debate that some personal electoral companies have already started here. Obviously, on YouTube and the Sililites, not enough, the budget process needs to be used for the pyar, its own pyar. So it seems to me that in this case we have to agree that the government is going to be very hard to do this budget because it's tense, it's complicated. But there's one good thing -- it's balanced. And what's now voted for this budget, I think those who voted think more of it actually being done than those who solve their problems through whites and silhouettes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u221	Gordijenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u222	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear government leaders, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, it's absolutely negative that neither in the Supreme Council session hall nor in the local council halls, we've been having a serious substantive discussion for 20 years about socio-economic development plans, about what makes it possible to fill the budget. It is unacceptable that we are always conducting a budget review that violates all mental and unthinkable procedures from the Budget Resolution to its adoption. I think it's wrong, it's completely wrong that we didn't look at it in an article. I am still addressing you, Mikolo Janovich, and the issue of children of war, 889 million undisputed court decisions need to be made. And Poltava, the unaccounted for correctional indicators, it's going to come back to us. And I'd like you to take a look at the top of Poltava.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. There was a problem with narrow bridges. That's how I'm leading you to the knowledge that 700 million people are in total for this year. Am I right? So, God forbid they win that money there. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the question of the appointment and release of judges, there is one more question: this is the draft Law on the Prevention and Opposition of Corruption in Ukraine. Since this topic has already been discussed and discussed, and we need to make a real working decision, let's take a quick look at this issue so that further committees, together with the government, can work on this document. I'm putting to the vote a motion to consider this under a reduced procedure. I want to say again, I'm putting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, don't vote. I understand what's important. We need to make decisions, not talk. That's it. [[12:39:20]] For 226 Decision taken. Reporter – Minister of Justice Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption of Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u224	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine. I think we all remember the history of the question when three draft laws were adopted in 2009 that had a similar name, but the essence of which was mainly or not directed towards order, or against Ukrainian citizens and the restriction of their constitutional rights, which eventually resulted from the Constitutional Court's decision on the individual provisions of this bill. A project that takes into account the value of today’s convention is now being proposed, especially the United Nations Convention on the Fight against Corruption. And the result of this work, which was carried out in execution of the President's decree by the National Anti-Corruption Committee, was an expert in the Anti-Corruption Group and received appropriate support after the project was drafted. The innovations presented in this bill are aimed at widening the cycle of responsibility for corruption. You can see them all in the list. To adapt the individual provisions of the United Nations Convention and its additional protocol to Ukrainian legislation. This is: a clear definition of the scope of the actions taken, coordinate and monitor activities to prevent and combat corruption; specify the types of restrictions on entities responsible for corruption; establish a special anti-corruption expertise for draft legislative acts, starting with draft laws and completing acts of local self - government; and set an adequate time limit on employment for persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u225	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u226	For those who have committed corruption offences; for the establishment of a register of persons who have committed corruption offences in order to limit their right to work in government and public service for three years. The entire set of money presented in the project is in an explanatory note that describes in detail everything that has been put into the project. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u227	Thank you. Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, head of the committee for the fight against organized crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u228	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine's Justice Minister, Alexander Lavrinović, submitted by the President of Ukraine, a draft strategically directed anti-corruption legislative act is based on the anti-corruption standards of the twenty-head principles of combating corruption, the Onion Conventions against Corruption and Transnational Organized Crime, European Anti-Corruption Conventions. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption at its meeting unanimously supports the legislative proposals of the President of Ukraine and recommends that parliament adopt a draft Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption in Ukraine. The Committee considers that the legislative regulation of the activities of State institutions in the field of prevention and anti-corruption is an urgent problem. We invite all national deputies, factions and committees to do this. As for the results of the study by the committee proposed by the President of Ukraine for anti-corruption money. First of all, it's an understandable machine. The bill reveals the definition of “corruption”. It should be noted that it is quite a bold step, since even the world’s anticorruption standards do not provide such an interpretation. Despite the fundamental differences in the thinking of experts, scientists and practitioners, the bill incorporates the concept of “unfair profit”, not material assets. We realize that this does not coincide with good judicial practice today. The other one. The bill defines the basis for preventing and combating corruption as the rule of law, the rule of law, the priority of precautionary measures, public participation, ensuring the restoration of violated rights and legitimate interests, compensation for damages and damage caused by corruption. Third. The question of criminalizing corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u229	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u230	The Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which correspond to the provisions of the relevant international treaties of Ukraine. The adoption in this room on the basis of the Ukrainian President's draft Ukrainian Law on Principles, Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption will testify to our common desire for real anti-corruption activities in Parliament. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u231	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please register with the faction: two "for", two "against". Please, Zarubinsky, prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u232	Oleg Zarubin Faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! There seems to be no doubt that anticorruption legislation must be adopted. The only question is not to hurt. Because if there's a problem that affects virtually all people, because it's not just about government officials, it's about all people, it's about this medical term, or the medical credo "no harm" should be present. I looked at the structure of this bill and I think that when we prepare for the second reading we will have this technological opportunity for each of these chapters and even paragraphs to amend it accordingly. After some discussion, of course, after some controversy. What I liked about the moment I watched this bill -- the passage into separate chapters of some things or some categories. For example, codes of conduct, article 13. Article 14 is a solution to a conflict of interest. Because we are well aware that conflict of interest is a nutritious ground for the temptation of corruption. Article 15 is an anti-corruption analysis of draft legislation. And because of the prism of our legislative work, I think it's a very correct chapter. Because the legal instruments are supposed to be an expert on the possibility of the corruption interest of those who develop them, who lobby for a bill or some other legal act, I think that's also a positive one. So I think we have reason to take on further work with this law and much more work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u233	Mikhailo Chechetov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u234	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A package of anticorruption laws was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in June 2009. However, the individual provisions of these laws did not correspond to the laws in force. The measures they offered were different as insurmountable, confusing, and inefficient. In addition, the public and experts have repeatedly expressed criticism of these laws, stressed the impossibility of applying these acts, as they violate the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Controversy and misunderstanding of these laws created preconditions for restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens, including through unlawful interference with their private lives. Some of the provisions of the laws have been transposed from valid international treaties, but the regulations have not been adapted properly to Ukrainian legislation. Taking into account the above problems, according to President Lavrinovich's mandate and the executive secretary of the National Anti-Corruption Committee, a complex and systematic work was organized by the Minister of Justice, Alexander Lavrinović, to improve the anti-corruption laws noted. Public authorities, ministries, prosecutors, parliamentary committees, and academics from public organizations were involved in this process. International experience and recommendations from leading world organizations were also used in this work. The changes developed by the National Anti-Corruption Committee were considered by experts from a group of countries against corruption of the Council of Europe, which, according to the Action Plan of Ukraine-EU, monitors the implementation of Ukraine's commitments. The experts ’ findings included a positive assessment of the proposed changes. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u235	Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u236	Dear Head, dear colleagues, well, I remember that we had a year of gloom to do with previous laws. Finally, a few days ago, Parliament was determined to benefit from the fact that since the President introduced a new, more generalized bill, we recognized them as having become invalid. And the reason was that the previous law contained a series of things that, from the point of view of their perception, such as society, did not look like the Anti-Corruption Act, but “the law of fighting corruption with the people”. And frankly, to a large extent, this bill, introduced by the President, removes this problem. But far too far, not completely. And in part, the problems that we've already had here, you know, spoken-worded, have also gone to the new bill. Well, I'll remind you that these laws were born after we ratified the international convention. And the subjects of the Convention were leaders of international nations and international organizations. For some reason, in this law that has been passed for the implementation of the convention, consider that in Ukraine, the leaders of foreign nations and international organizations are subject to anticorruption legislation. They just rewrote it and it's out of the law, it's out of the law. Everyone on the committee is talking about it, saying it's absurd to throw it away. Sadly, it has been preserved. Next. Questions of public organizations. I'm paying attention to you, a lot of public organizations are complaining that these laws are being postponed in some way, that they should be adopted. Dear representatives of public organizations, look, you're the subject of this law, you're asking to be checked by the H.E.S.A.? You're not being checked out, are you? You either read the laws, or let us then find some common ground in this regard. Next. The questions I have in mind, because I have introduced, including an alternative bill on the previous law, refer to elections. I've been talking about this myself. I also spoke accordingly to a representative who will now report that the question: regarding the verification of members of district and territorial commissions in accordance with corruption legislation is absurd. We'll never find a person who will agree to do this once. And secondly, think about it, we're doing a special inspection on the members of the district commission that came for 20 days and that had nothing to do with the public service.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u237	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u238	So that we don't have to do this, that as a result only the representatives of some political force will be on the election boards. Or, as far as the candidates are concerned, all the electoral authorities. It's fixed here. And it's actually very good that they're not subject to special checks right now. But it's written that some special inspection should be conducted by the CBC. What's that? Because according to the Constitution and the Electoral Law, there's a test that's established by the CLTC and you don't have to duplicate it. It refers to the general things, the prices established by the Constitution. They can't be extended by any law. Because if this is done, there will be no democratic elections in Ukraine. Thank you. Therefore, work should be done in a timely manner before the second reading. For my part, on behalf of the faction, I am ready to join either the committee or the working group. And so he asked our wise ones, I think, to take the correction into account for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Before the vote, I would ask the committee to do so, and we all listened to what our colleague and others said. We need to seriously reform this law, not act on principle. To demonstrate in words how we all fight for purity in Ukraine, I mean against corruption, so that this law doesn't turn against those who have called for the adoption of this law and all others. Therefore, honourable colleagues, with this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:53:35]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin our consideration of the question of the election and release of judges. The rapporteur is the head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u240	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Under section 76 of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of the Act, and examined the referral of citizens, civil society organizations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who reached the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine at the time of the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u241	753, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u242	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Kyrovograd district of the Writer Alexi Aleksy Anatoliyovich The Court of Appeal of the Lviv district of Macei Mikhail Mikhailovich Kiev’s Appellate Chamber of Commerce, Ostapenko Oleg Mikolaiovich. Lutsky District Court of Volin district of Kichtuk Roman Mikolaiovich Andrewszewski District Court of the Zitomir district of Karpovec Vitali Volodymirovich Uzhgo Taras Juriovich, District Court of Zacarpathia The Kostopil district court of the Plain region of Piscunov Volodymyr Mikolayovic. Solomon’s District Court of Kiev Oksutu Taras Grigorovich, Sokolové Victoria Vejacheslavovna Dnipropetrov County Administrative Court of Chabanenko Svetlana Volodymyrovna. Crime of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Prival Angelique Viacheslavna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm betting on a bill for the election of the courts. Please vote. [[12:56:55]] For 245 Decision taken. Now, draft regulation number 7503-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u244	To elect judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Vedenapine Alexandr Andriyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Hmaruk Natalija Sergiyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region – Gavrilo Galina Leonidivna, Dundar Irina Alexandrovna, Mironenko Irina Petrovna, Savak Svetlana Volodymyrovna, Yanchuk Tetjana Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Datsiv Vladimir Vasilovic; The Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region of Gončar Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Djomić Ludmila Mikolayovna, Cabanov Verena Vijacheslavna, Karpenka Alexander Leontijovich, Širodorod Roman Volodymyrovich, Jakovljev Svetlan Volodymyrovna;The Žitomirski Administrative Court of Major Gregory Ivanovich, Philip Tetjan Leonidivna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal Buzak Natalija Petrovna, Thunder of Love Mikolayevna, Philipenko Olen Eugenyevna, Stepanuk Anatolia Hermanovich, Shelest Svetlana Bogdanovna; Sevastopol's Court of Appeal Vrontsevna Natalija Vladislavna, Evdomova Igor Vejacheslavovich, Prezenko Alexandru Ivanovna, Ribin Svetlana Anatoliyevna; The Kyiv District Court of Simferopol Senk Mikol Fedorovich; The Kyiv District Court of Odessa Borschev Igor Aleksiowiovich; The Hmelnick Regional Court of Hmelnicke District of Antonjuk Oleg Volodymirovich, Trachuk Ruslan Mikolaiovich; The Lenin district court of Sevastopol Luščnikov Volodymyr Fedorovich; the Chamber of Commerce of the Zaporozhye district of Kagitin Ludmila Petrovna, Kriczmarzewski Vladimir Anatoliyivitch, Moisienko Tetjan Volodymyrovna, Hutorny Vitali Mihajlovich, Shevchenko Tetjan Mikolayevna; the Commercial Court of the Luhansk Region of Jezov Svetlana Stepanovna, Inozemskov Vasilovna, Laznenko Ludmila Leonidivna, Semideev Inessa Vejacheslavna, Yakushenko Rais Evgenyevna; the commercial court of Kiev Melnika Sergio Mikolaiovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, "On the Overcoming of Judges." [[Registration number 7503-1]] [[13:00:05]] For 246 Decision taken. Now, draft decree, registration number 7503-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u246	The judges will be elected without delay: the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Oisien andriya Anatoliyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Galian Ludmila Eugene; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Skripchenk Vadim Aleksandrovitch; the railway district court of Simferopol Uržumov Natalija Valerijovna; Ravenna City Court of the Križov Oksana Grigorovna District Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, I propose a bill for the election of judges (registration number 7503-2). Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:01:07]] For 248 Decision taken. Yes, further draft regulation 7503-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u248	To elect judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Zajlav Petrovich, Swede of Eduard Yuriovich; The Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters: Demionosova Mikolayivna, Jelfimov Aleksandra Vasilovich, Žuravel Valentina Ivanovna, Irina Mikolayovna, Karpenko Svetlana Alexyevna, Kafidov Olen Vasilovna, Kolodijczuk Viktor Mikolaiovich, Kreštenka Anatolia Mikolayovič, Križanovska Valentina Jakovič, Olijnik Allu Sergiyevna, Orljanska Valentine Ivanovna, Popović Olenko Valentina Viktorovna, Simonenko Valentina Mikolayevna, Shilova Tetjana Semenovna, Jurovska Galina Valentinovna; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Kavatsuka Mikol Fedorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Ivaszczenka Alexander Yuriovich; The Winning Administrative Court of Sougir Dmitry Ivanovich; the Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Company Irina Dmitrovna; Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal Willeck Alla Mikolayevna, Gribenuk Natalia Volodymyrna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7503-3]] Please vote. [[13:03:07]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome the judges who have just been elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to office on an uninterrupted basis and to wish them fruitful work in good health. And now I ask the head of the High Council of Justice of Kolesnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u250	The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 6 December this year, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 9, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 131, article 100, article 109 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, examined the materials on the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the higher specialized courts, appeals and local courts from positions under general circumstances and decided to apply the relevant application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All judges find that their actual will, influence, or coercion in their decision to release has not been established. The High Council of Justice proposes to resign from office. Bill 7468.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u251	We're going to Bill 7468 now, aren't we? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u252	To release Tisak Oleg Vasilovich from the post of Judge of the Uzhgorod District Court of Zacarpathia in connection with the application for exemption at your own request.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u253	There's no telegram, nothing, right? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the bill of release of the judge. [[Registration number 7468]] Please vote. [[13:05:18]] For 260 Decision taken with regard to Decree 7468. Now 7468-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u254	Dismissed from the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Zvegencevo Olen Mikolayovna in connection with the application for a state of health, the Zubov Ludmila Mikolayovna in connection with the application for resignation, Judge of the Court of Appeal of Poltava District in connection with the filing of the application for resignation of Shabovska Valentina Anatoliyovna, Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Bachurin Alexander Volodymyrovich in connection with the application for resignation, Judge Zaporzik's Court of Appeal, Zubkov Tetjana Petrovna, in connection with the application for exemption at his own request, Judge Kharkiv's Court of Appeal, Buhan Anatoly Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation, Judge of the Pavlovrad Regional Court of Dnipropetrovské District of Litvinenko, Valentina Mikolayovna, in connection with the application for resignation, Judge of the Slovenian District Court of Donetsk, Lamekina Mikol Ivanovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension which impedes the continuation of the duties, Judge of the Hartziski City Court of the Donetsk Region of New York, Lydia Mikhailnovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, Judge of the Petrovsky District Court of Donetsk Miroshnicka Vadim Vasilovich in connection with the application for a state of health pension, Judge of the Czerniakhiv District Court of the district of Žitomirsk Vasil Volodymyrovich in connection with the application for resignation, Judge Kamyano-Dniprovovsky of the District Court of Zaporozhye District of Yuhn Leonid Mihajlovich in connection with the application for resignation, Judge of the District Court of Kiev, Gavrilenko Volodymyr Grigorovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, Judge Jovkovsky District Court of Pak Vasil Mihajlovich in connection with the application for resignation, Judge Kobilatsky District Court of Poltava District of Zzerklánimir Kostinović in connection with the application for resignation, Judge Kozelishtski district court of the district of Poltavsk Samosonk Volodymyr Mikolajovic in connection with the application for resignation, Judges Krukovsky District Court of Cremenczuk Poltava District Cobzia Boris Ivanovich and Usenko Tamar Ivanovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Demidiv District Court of the District of Equinox, Zosul Petr Grigorovitch, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Novovodolaz Regional Court of the Kharkiv Region of Peace Alexander Sergiyyovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Morgulenko Tamaru Evgenovna in connection with the application for a state of health. And the judge of the Odessa Economic Court of Mazur Dmitry Timothyovich in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u255	Yes, Your Honor, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges, registration number 7468-1, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:08:23]] For 262 Decision taken. Now project Regulation 7468-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u256	According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council. In connection with a violation of the judge's oath to release the judges: Anakiyev City Court of the Donetsk region of Karakin Oleg Alexandrovich; Boryspolski District Court of Kiev Bondarenko Igor Anatoliyovich and Zaviruhu Alexi Vasilovich; Shevchenkov District Court of Kyiv Kormushina Kiril Aleksandrovitch I'm informing you of the breach. Karakin Oleg Aleksandrovitch has been informed in an orderly manner. He's not in session. I'd like to be able to identify myself with the possibility of listening in the absence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u257	What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u258	There are no judges in session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u259	Well, there's a number of references. Yeah, and you're into Karakin, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u260	Yes, there is a telegram on Karakina Oleg Aleksandrovitch, and there is a report that it is given in an orderly manner, that the reasons for not appearing at the meeting of the Supreme Council are unknown, not reported. I think it's necessary to consider without his involvement, to report on the substance of the breach. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Judge Karjakin Oleg Alexandrovich be dismissed for violating his oath, namely, for the baseless burden allowed by a judge in a criminal case, despite the defendant’s stay for more than four years in custody. The man was without a sentence of four years in court and in custody.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put this motion to a vote. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports, then we'll move on to making a decision right away, if we don't, then next time we'll make a decision. No objections? I am putting to the vote to consider the issue of discharge in connection with the violation of the oath of the judge of Anakiyiv City Court of the Donetsk district of Karjakin Oleg Alexanderovich. I mean, to look at this issue in his absence. Please vote, please. [[13:11:11]] For 261 Decision taken. And now I'm putting to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, the proposal to release the judge in connection with the violation of the oath, this is the Anakyev City Court of the Donetsk Region, Karjakin Oleg Alexanderovich. Please vote. [[13:11:47]] For 263 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u262	Bondarenko Igor Anatolyovich. This is the judge of the Kyiv District Municipal Court. A statement was made in the order in which it was reported, but a statement was made. In view of the fact that he has been on maternity leave since 13.12.2010 until his daughter Jara’s three - year - old age, he requests a postponement of his hearing. I'm going to point out that the baby was born in 12.05.2010, and since then the wife has been on leave to take care of the baby. And 13.12. After the decision of the High Council of Justice he wrote a statement, issued an order, and he went on vacation to look after the child. I believe that since he is informed in the established law that this is a way of avoiding responsibility, I propose that we consider it without his participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u263	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. A statement has been made. One minute! A statement was also made in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council, the substance of the matter of the statement just stated that we have all these documents. So I say let's do it this way. If this is an abrogation, but it is in line with the law, then we must abide by the law. Therefore, such a request would probably delay consideration of the matter. Ask the High Council of Justice to re-examine the matter with the committee, and then we will be determined next time. Let's do what's right. Let's ask questions. Who is in favour of delaying the question of the dismissal of the judge of the Borispil District Court of Kiev, Bondarenko Igor Anatoliyovich, please vote. [[13:13:58]] For 251 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u264	Judge Zavruch Aleksei Vasilovich, Judge of the Borispil District Court of Kyiv. At the address of the Head of the Supreme Council, a letter came that he was on permanent treatment. There is evidence that he is being treated: stage two hypertonic disease. Please put it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u265	Please, your recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u266	Please put it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, also the documents came in the form of telegrams and direct applications to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is the proposal: let's support from the High Council of Justice on the postponement of the question of judges of Zaverusha Alexia Vasilovich, the Borispil District Court of Kiev. I would like to make this proposal so that everything is in accordance with the law. [[13:15:02]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u268	Kormushin Kirilo Aleksandrovich, Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev In the order established by law, there is no indication that there is no reason. I'd like to discuss it without him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, I am therefore voting on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to consider the question of the dismissal of Judge Kormushin Kiril Alexanderovich for his absence. Please vote. [[13:15:48]] For 247 Decision taken. Please, motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u270	The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Judge Kormushin be dismissed for breaking his oath, namely, for committing a number of corruptions involving the Ukrainian Security Service in criminal matters, with a gross violation of the rights of defendants, a permissible burden. Thus, in spite of the requirements of article 272 of the Ukrainian KPC, the judge removed the defendant Kovalenko from the courtroom for the entire time of the case, without giving a reason for the decision. In doing so, the judge denied the defendant the opportunity to sit in court and appeal to the court with the last word in which he violated his right to defend himself. Nor did the judge comply with article 81-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. The separate ruling of the Kyiv Court of Appeal also states that the violation by Judge Kormushini in principle of the direct and orality of the proceedings provided for in article 257. In another case, the judge allowed a substantial breach of the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Act, which led to the annulment of the judgment and the referral of the case to a new court, a violation of the rights of the defendant Zacev to appeal. Also in violating the requirements of article 407 of the U.S.C.C., he considered the matter without a report and the involvement of the authorities. Knows the outcome of the punishment that has been dealt with. Moreover, article 354 of the Code provides that a court that has given judgment or has given approval will refer a decision within seven days, along with an appeal, and so forth. The Supreme Council of Justice carefully reviewed his participation in its meeting and decided to release him. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion for exemption in connection with the violation of the oath of Judge Shevchenkov of the District Court of Kiev Kormushina Kirila Alexandrovich. Please vote. [[13:17:46]] For 246 Decision taken. Now project Regulation 7468-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u272	According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release the judges of the Court of Appeal of Kyrovograd district of Ponomarenka from office in relation to the application for resignation. The Court of Appeal of the district of Chernivecko Mironovna in connection with the application for resignation. The Kyiv district court of Simferopol Bortnik Olen Petrovna, in connection with a health claim. Jmerinian District Court of the Crown District of Petrasek Leonida Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation. The Lokachin District Court of the Volin district of Allic Nadia Eugenena, in connection with the application for resignation. Ivano-Frankiv District Court of Retirement, in connection with the application for resignation. The Scottish District Court of Suma County, Bondarenko, Irina Sergiyevna, in connection with the application for resignation. The Monastery District Court of Ternopil, Boyk Mikhail Petrovic, in connection with the application for resignation. However, the Kyiv District Administrative Court of Stogun, Sergey Grigorovitch, has applied for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges number 7468-3. Please vote. [[13:19:26]] For 251 Decision taken. I would like to announce a draft regulation amending some of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rulings on the release of judges. [[Registration number 7469]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u274	Regarding amendments to certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the release of judges. In connection with the adoption by the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine of judgments of 17.08.2010, from 18.08.2010, from 09.09.2010 in such cases and from 02.11.2010, 13.10.2010 in Law No. Make changes to such decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges from June 3, 2010, No 32 page 456 of the words “Redwater District Court of Kharkiv – Attack of Ludmila Alexiyevna and Kishin Mikol Ivanovich” were excluded. The other one. In the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges from June 17, 2010 No32, the words “Kievsky Administrative Court of Appeal – Baranenka Igor Ivanovich; the Zadovska District Court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska oblast – Stasovska Ludmila Ivanovna and Vorošilovsk District Court of Donetska – Mishchenka Hennadia Autonomovic; Malinovska District Court of Odessa – Demchenka Alexandra Mikolajovič and Svetosynska District Court of Kiev – Babić Nina Dmitrovna” shall be deleted. Third. In the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges from 9 September 2010, the word “Svetosinsky District Court of Kiev – Pozniakhovski Fedor Mikolajovic” should be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the release of judges. [[Registration number 7469]] Please vote. [[13:21:37]] For 242 Decision taken. Now, Your Honor, let's move on to draft regulation 7469-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u276	About the release of the judges. In accordance with article 126, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: in connection with a violation of the judge's oath to release judges The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Baranek Igor Ivanovich; The factory district court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Stasovska Ludmila Ivanovna; Voroshilovsk District Court of Donetsk Mishchenka Hennady Autonomovich; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Demchenka Alexander Mikolayovich; The Redwater District Court of Kharkova Artakovo Ludmila Alexiyevna and the Sanhedrin District Court of Kiev Babic Nina Dmitrovna All the judges in the established order reported by the government’s telegrams are related reports of delivery. At a meeting of the Supreme Council, none of them appeared. So I suggest that because this is a reexamination, and it was the court on procedural matters that overturned the Supreme Council’s decision because they did not then appear at the meetings and then submitted documents that they had been hospitalized, and this was recognized as an important reason, and the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council were overturned. So I think that their not being able to meet again is also a series of steps that indicate that they are avoiding meetings on purpose. Please consider without their participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, you've been given an argument. At the same time, I cannot help but say that I received a letter from the head of the Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal concerning Baranek Igor Ivanovich. I will read only the last paragraph: “The Courts of Judges unanimously decided to address the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the request not to release Judge Baranenko from office for violation of the judge’s oath.” And there is also actually a statement from Baranenko: “In the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 23, the question of my dismissal from the post of judge is included. In view of the impossibility of arriving on 23 December 2010 at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for health reasons, I ask that I be moved to another date.” However, there is no evidence of the reasons why it is impossible to get to health. That's why. Please, what's going to be here?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u278	I'd like to support and consider it without his involvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u279	I'm putting a motion to vote to consider the question of the dismissal of Judge Baranek Igor Ivanovich for his absence. [[13:25:00]] For 240 Decision taken. And now I have a letter to me concerning the judge of Artak's Ludmila Aleksyivne. Please remove from the agenda of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the question of the application of the Supreme Council of Justice for the release of Artakovo Ludmila Aleksyivna from the post of Judge of the Czervonozadov District Court of Kharkova, because the rightfulness of this application is being challenged by me and the open cassation of the application in accordance with the approval of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine since 22 October 2010 in the case. The number is kind of adding a copy of the approval. Please make an offer to the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u280	The judge exercised her right by turning to the court. The decision of the first instance denied her a lawsuit, and the decision of the appeals station refused. She now complains in cassation that she is not an obstacle to dealing with the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u281	I then put to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice, to consider the question of the dismissal of Judge Artakova Ludmila Alexiyevny, despite her appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:26:27]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if there is another court decision, then the Supreme Council will have to review clearly. Obviously, though, she will have to reconsider the decision she will make.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already reported the infractions by these judges at a previous meeting. I brief you on everyone. Igor Ivanovich. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Judge Baranenko be dismissed for violating the oath, namely, for unlawfully closing the case and for depriving the defendant of the right to a fair and impartial hearing of her case in court, which was due to the stay of Judge Baranenko in family and friendly relations with the appellant at the time, and the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Volkow. In contrast, Judge Baranenko, despite the requirements of article 27 KAS of Ukraine, did not claim self - help. It's the Barranque. Are we going to vote all together or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u283	So we're going to talk about everyone. And then we're going to vote on the proposal to consider for their absence of three more that we haven't voted on. And then, and then we're going to vote on the whole decision and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u284	Do you want me to report on Artacovy now? For the one we voted on?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u285	Come on, we've already voted on Artakovy that we're going to consider, regardless of her absence. The same is true of the Lamb. We'll consider it, no matter what the absence. Now, about Stosovski, Mishchenka and Demchenka, and Babic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u286	Artakova Ludmila Alexiyevna. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Judge Artakov be released for breach of oath, namely, for unlawfully blocking the execution of the decision of the Odessa Economic Court, which has become effective in the legal order. It's about Artak's. Now with regard to the Stosovo People of John. The message is correct, the message is, the order is. Please also consider without her participation. Stosovo Ludmila Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u287	Yes. About Mishchenka and Demchenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u288	And so will Mishchenko, and Babic, if you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u289	And Demchenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u291	Dear colleagues! I'm going to put to the vote a recommendation from the High Council of Justice to consider the question of the dismissal of judges: Stoslovska Ludmila Ivanovna, Mishchenka Hennadija Autonomovich, Demchenka Alexander Mikolaiovich and Babic Nina Dmitrovna, regardless of their absence. Please vote. [[13:29:05]] For 239. Decision taken. Now we can vote on the verdict.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u292	By Mishchenk, yes, by Mishchenk Hennady Autonomovich. The Higher Council of Justice proposes to release Judge Mishchenko for breaking his oath, namely, by ordering a number of illegal resolutions regarding the management of the State Enterprise Sea Trade Port South, which has led to the blocking of the business activity. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u293	Yes. That's how we're going to vote on everyone at the same time. Now for Demchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u294	Come on. Demchenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, Malinovo District Court of Odessa The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Judge Demchenk be released for breach of oath, namely, for cases of violation of the rules of exclusive jurisdiction, and for inadvertent consideration by depriving the parties of the right to information about the time and place of the trial. As a result of the judge’s actions, a number of businesses were illegally deprived of property rights in the city of Odessa and Odessa for several million dollars. Nana Nina Dmitrovna, Kyiv’s District Court The High Council of Justice proposes to release Judge Babic for breaking his oath. That is, for reasons of uncontrolled consideration of cases involving the denial of the right to information about the time and place of the case; for participating in the implementation of the raiding schemes in relation to the two associations; for blocking their economic activity. As a result of her improper actions, raids have been carried out, and businesses have been eliminated. And Stasovska. I've already read it. All right, I've given the information to all the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u295	Dear colleagues. The draft Ordinance on the release of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7469-1]] [[13:31:09]] For 245 Decision taken. Yes, thank you, Volodymyr Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, we need to consider one more question right now. This is a draft decree on the granting of custody and seizure under the custody of a judge at the Ivanów District Court of the Odessa region of Donin. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to hear from the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Head of the Justice Committee. Yeah? In accordance with the Rules, the Head of the Supreme Court first. Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u296	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On February 15, 2010, the Supreme Court of Ukraine received an application from the Attorney General of Ukraine to allow for detention and to be taken into custody by the judge of the Ivanov District Court of the Odessa region of Donin. The evidence suggests that the Odessa District Attorney’s Office is investigating a criminal case for accusing Judge Donin of violating traffic safety rules by a person who controls the means of transport that caused the victim’s death of serious bodily harm. And this article provides for responsibility in part two of article 286. From this submission, we saw in the Supreme Court that in 25.10.2007, about 22 hours in the evening, driving the car, belonged to him on the right-hand side of his property, Pejo 407, at 456 kilometers of the Kiev-Odessa route, broke the traffic rules, ran, well, if I may say so, drove another car where they were, caught up, injured. And as a result, one passenger died immediately, another passenger suffered severe bodily damage, and another passenger, a driver, minor bodily damage. But that's not the point. The prosecutor referred to this fact as evidenced by the relevant evidence of witnesses, as well as by the conclusion of the Commission of Forensic Auto-Technical Expertise, the conclusion of the complex forensic and medical expertise. The prosecutor also pointed out that Judge Donine’s abuse of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges does not appear to the investigating authorities. And according to the Attorney General, between 19 January 2009 and 9 November 2009, he was sixty. That is, the judge did not appear sixty - five times without valid reasons for calling the investigator, ignoring the requirements of the law. On March 12, 2010, I filed with you, the Supreme Council. We invited a judge to the Supreme Court, and he was associated with the former First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Court, Philippchuk, Peter Philipovich, my colleagues, including an invited investigator who was in charge of the case. The judge was warned, and we told him that you should comply with the law and appear for questioning, otherwise the precautionary measure would be changed. Moreover, in the presence of my colleagues, the investigator handed him another invitation message. But for today, as far as I know, this investigation is not yet complete, and you have an appropriate application for a change in the precautionary measure of not going into custody. Therefore, you must make the right decision today. I know that this issue was being considered by the Justice Committee, and the committee also adopted an appropriate conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u297	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, either to the Head of the Supreme Court or to the Attorney General, this will be an opportunity to ask these questions. Now to the Head of the Supreme Court, do you have any questions? Please write it down. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u298	Vasil Vasilovich, the problem is scary, and this is not the first time that a person speaking on behalf of Ukraine commits a crime. I'm interested in another question. We are all living people, and what is the road today, and what is the road, and so on, and can happen to everyone, with love. We know here that we have Ukrainian national deputies in the hall, and they have stars on their cars, on their hoods. Please tell me, this judge, when he was in such a state of distress, was he sober? Was he adequate or simply, was it the first case, or was he constantly violating it, warned him by drinking he was driving and chasing what kind of man he was?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u299	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, a criminal case, you see, was dealt with by the Attorney General's Office. But from the materials we received, I didn’t realize that he was in an unsettling state. So it was a car accident where, as it was coming out of the material of the case, at high speed, at high speed, he caught up with the car of the victims and behind there was this contact. But obviously that kind of contact, you realize that one person died, the other people are in severe condition and slight bodily damage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u300	Yes, please, Eugene the King's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u301	But I just wanted to add to everything that, apart from the opinion of the court, there is still an opinion on the ground, and it matches 110 per cent of what is being heard here. That is, there are very many complaints from the Ivanov region, from the area. There are, there are parallels. Therefore, I ask the Chamber to support what the Committee is now asking, and the judges, so that I do not take up the documents that are still available on this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u302	Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, first of all, we are talking about the invincibility of crime, and the court will determine whether it was a crime or not. And it's a substitute for you to understand, non-departure, detention, arrest, essentially. Because he did not appear, as we can see from the material of the case, to question the investigator.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u304	Yes, thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat. I invite Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov, head of the Justice Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u305	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, was discussed at a meeting of the Justice Committee on 20 October 2010 on the submission of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, supported and introduced by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, to allow the arrest and arrest of the judge of the Ivanov District Court of Odessa, Donin Vladimir Evgenović. According to the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the Odessa District is investigating the criminal charge of Donin’s violation of traffic safety rules, a person who managed a transport vehicle that caused the victim’s death and caused serious bodily harm. Vasil Vasilovich has already said in relation to the judicial investigation that has been set up, I will not stop at that now. All I'm saying is that as a result of the collision, a VAZ-2106 passenger suffered severe bodily damage, which led to his death on the way to the hospital. Two other passengers suffered severe and slight bodily damage. On March 11, 2009, Donina was charged with committing a crime, as foreseen in part two of article 286 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, and a precautionary measure was chosen — not to leave. According to the U.S. Attorney - General’s Office, Judge Donine’s abuse of his right of inviolability did not appear for questioning of the investigator’s calls to the investigating authorities and was evading the investigation. Yes, between 19 January 2009 and 9 November 2009, he did not appear more than 65 times without valid reasons to call the investigating authority, ignoring all messages and telegrams received and sent to him. In considering the materials mentioned, the Committee concluded that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine supported and introduced by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine met the requirements of part one of article 220 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and could be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the draft Decree 7274.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u306	Yes, please have a seat. Dear colleagues, who would like to speak on this matter? You don't? Then let's go to the vote. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of arrest and arrest, in the custody of the judge of the Ivanov District Court of the Odessa region of Donin. [[Registration number 7274]] Please vote. Ah, take down the vote. Please take off the vote. Because I'm telling you there's no judge. Please, Your Honor. What questions do you have for Judge Donin Vladimir Evgenovich? Perhaps you will express your position? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u307	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I declare that the investigators of the Odessa Prosecutor's Office have falsified these charges against me in this criminal case. I didn't get the charges, I didn't get the subscription. I was at work at the time. And the D.A.'s investigator submitted to the Attorney-General's Office documents that he allegedly brought charges against me. In fact, there was a criminal case, there was a prosecutor, there were lawyers, there was a defendant. Well, it can't be like that! I've been interrogated on numerous occasions, I've been to personal receptions and the district attorney's office, and I've come to the Attorney General's Office. I'm innocent. But the D.A. just doesn't want to see it. A number of witnesses have been removed from the case, 12 who have confirmed my innocence. At the time, I was not driving at all, and there was another man driving, and I was taken from a wrecked car from a passenger seat. That's what everybody's looking at. With the help of the UBOP staff, the unfavorable witnesses arrived in the morning, took them out of their apartments and interrogated them at UBOP only to give up their testimony. When they refused to do so, the testimony was missing. I mean, there are no 12 explanations for today. The claim to falsify the case is not persistently considered. I am also represented in the Supreme Council, and I have written fracility, and it is to the Attorney General's Office that this criminal case is falsified. Deputies' requests. There were over 20 parliamentary requests, which are ignored, no answers to these requests, to your requests, distinguished deputies. It's all just sort of gone. In the courts, my complaints about the order to initiate a criminal case are blocked. The case, the proceedings are simply not available to the court, which precludes the possibility of their being considered. The prosecutor is not in the case. It's all going on and on. I've never hidden from an investigation, never hidden from anyone. At the time that I didn't say that I didn't go to the investigator for questioning, during which time I just carried out seven operations, I became a second group invalid, and physically I couldn't come to the investigator at the hospital at that exact time. I mean, there were telegraphs on purpose both at home and at work. I'll tell you that the case is being fabricated on behalf of the President of the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region. I'm just disagreeable with him as judge and as president of the district court. The court came to work as his godfather, first the president of the court, so to speak, removed, now eliminated. Therefore, I am, in fact, to be removed in any way. Now my destiny is in your hands. I'll ask you to decide her, decide what God says. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u308	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we heard an explanation from the judge. Everyone will take into account the information they receive. I am voting on the Supreme Council's decision to grant arrests and arrests to the judge of the Ivanov District Court of Odessa, Donin Vladimir Evgenović (registration number 7274). [[13:46:52]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Yeah, now, well, the decision's not made. Let us now study this question again. Yeah. The factions, please. Region Party – 140, BUT – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 9. Ladies and gentlemen of the National People's Party, this is an announcement. Yes, I thank you all for taking part in the consideration of the question of the appointment and dismissal of judges, and then we will continue our work. Thank you all. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 has been announced for consideration. [[on MINREGIONBUD'S EXPENDITURE]] The proposal came to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote for this proposal. [[13:48:06]] For-200 Decision taken. Reporter – Lisov Igor Volodymyrovich and co-reporter – Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. I'll be brief. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u309	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A project on Ukraine's State Budget 2010 has been presented to you. [[on MINREGIONBUD'S EXPENDITURE]] The project is foreseen within the budget expenditure of the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine's General Fund to redistribute it by increasing consumption spending by 450,000 dollars to ensure that the employees of the Ministry are adequately paid in accordance with the Ukrainian State Service Act. The adoption of the bill does not require an increase in the expenditure of the State budget, but provides for a redistribution and aims to ensure the efficient use of budgetary resources. There is a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Finance on this issue and a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support and accept this bill as a whole, with a narrow budget implementation period of 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u310	Thank you, Igor Vladimirovich. The head of the Baranov Committee, Valeriy Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u311	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 7382, following its consideration in the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a law as a whole. At the same time, for the transcript, I will point out that since the committee's consideration of the bill, laws have been adopted that have amended the State Budget Act for 2010, in particular Law 2773 of December 3, and other laws. In this context, in order to ensure the balance of the State budget summary indicators and the alignment of the Bill number 7382 with the most recent edition of the State Budget Act 2010, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority, should, in drafting the bill, provide appropriate editorial and technical legal clarifications to the law and additional ones. Bill's appendix number 7382 when it's accepted. Please support the committee's decision to take into account the sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, let's support the committee's decision, taking into account the comments that have just been made. No objections? I'll put it to a vote. Please cancel the vote. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u313	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are, today, deeply impressed by the violation of the Law on Rules, the Constitution at the time of adoption of the budget. Since 1994, there has never been such a brutal violation of the Rules Act in this room. And I, Adam Ivanovich, so that you don't scream there, you have time to scream, I want to say that you don't want to hear or see another point of view. But it needs to be heard and seen. And I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, as one of the heads of Parliament, and where is the decision of the Committee on Budget Affairs on the budget that we have adopted today. None. That's what you're dealing with right now. I see you're proposing now, and why we didn't look at the legal privatization program with you, and now we're predicting that we're going to get 10 billion out of there. This also has to do with this law that we are currently considering. Why we're ignoring you at all and not even inviting you, I haven't seen the head of the Court of Auditors today, his proposals for the State Budget Act 2011 and the conclusions of 2010. It also states: “The results of the expertise carried out by the Court of Auditors show that the available reserves have increased individual payments by 1 billion 316.5 million dollars. In particular, the rent on gas for 236 million dollars, the cost of carrying out property confiscated by the court for 30 million dollars, the own revenue of the budget institutions for 1 billion, coming to the Social Protection Fund for 50 million persons with disabilities. So the revenue line was going to be 282 and 781.4 million dollars. As a result, dear friends, our faction firmly opposes such approaches to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u314	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Replica, Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u315	Thankfully, there are many people in the session room who remember and can confirm that Yuri Anatolyevich is completely lying. That's the first one. The other one. We took advantage of your invaluable experience when you were part of the governing coalition and when in December 2008 we decided to consider the State Budget Act 2009 without discussion and so on and so forth. There was a budget discussion today. So that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u316	Dear National Deputies! I beg you, I beg you, because we have all the speeches addressed to the people, not the Supreme Council. So let us fight for the people and now make practical decisions. Please. The committee's proposal: to accept the bill as a basis and as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. Taking into account the comments made by the chairman of the committee. I'm voting on this proposal. [[Registration number 73820]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u317	In the first reading only, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u318	It's too late. Did I ask no objection? You said you didn't. [[13:54:44]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There is a request, please note, for us to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. [[on the approval of the text of the oath by the Prosecutor's Office]] The committee has prepared, he has asked us to join the agenda, if we include it, at the evening session we will be able to take a look. This is registration number 7426-1. Please vote for the proposal to include the draft Law in the agenda. Please vote. Dear colleagues! Let's focus on that. We're voting that one and that's it. [[13:55:32]] For 244 Decision taken. And we still have a little draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. [[on the Special Preparation of Candidates for Judgeship]] This is the decision of the Conciliation Board to consider the matter. I propose a reduced procedure and then we call it a break. Please vote. [[13:56:06]] For 216 Decision taken. Valery Volodymyrovich, please briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u319	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, we are somewhat simplifying the procedure for the admission of judges to this office and proposing that the programme, the curriculum and the procedure for the introduction of special training and the list of higher law institutions that will carry out such training should be approved by the Higher Qualification of Judges, and that the National School of Judges, which we have established with you in the course of the judicial reform that functions in the Higher Qualifying Commission of Ukraine, be organized. The criteria for determining the list of higher law institutions will also be approved by the Supreme Court of Judges. The need for adoption also depends on our having the appropriate proposals of the Venice Commission and our European orientation on this bill. The committee considered it. There are suggestions to accept it in general today. It is small and somewhat simple to regulate certain procedures. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support Bill 7451 and vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u320	Thank you. From the committee, Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u321	Thank you. After considering the bill submitted, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice believes that its position is correct and that its adoption will allow for improved selection of candidates and facilitate the rapid and qualitative formation of the judiciary. Having considered this bill at its meeting, the Justice Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, introduced by the Kival and Pisarenko People's Deputies, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as the Law of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7451]] Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u322	Dear colleagues, the proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m0.u323	No, well, what am I gonna do? Well, the man denies it. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm voting on the adoption of draft Law 7451 as a basis. [[13:58:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. Since there is a objection, honourable colleagues, I would like to ask the committee to agree on a position. If you agree, everything will be fine. Do you mind? Oh, no, you don't. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our work at 16 hours. I would like to take into account that we have a second reading discussion.
