ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:46]] Cards were registered in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues Catherineczuk Mikol Dmitrovich, Lukyan Catherine Eugenynowna, and Najdony Andrew Mikhailovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them health, success. [[Applause]] Yes, honourable members of the people, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council at the plenary meetings on 18 November 2010: three issues of the agenda have been addressed, and two laws and one decree have been adopted as a result of their consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, here again we have terrorist acts committed, killing the nests for the vote. I now ask the colleagues of the relevant departments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address this issue. And dear colleagues, I ask you not to go down to the cave level in your actions. Well, you don't have to do that. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. “hour of questions to the Government. ” Representatives of the deputy factions made a proposal: during the “hour of questions to the Government” to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the budgetary process regarding the main parameters of the Cabinet's 2011 budget approach. The presence of a group of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, led by Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedor Aleksijovich. Deputies: “The Yulia Timoshenko Block” – “The Fatherland”, “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense”, Ukraine’s Communist Party, based on article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, submitted their questions in writing to the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Hence, it is suggested that we organize our work in this way, respected colleagues. First, questions from the factions that came in writing are up to half an hour and then questions directly from the national MPs in a mode of direct communication. And then I would ask Fedor Alexiyovich Jaroshenko to answer the questions in turn from each faction. So let's say the answers to the questions are up to two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to work. I invite the minister, please, to fund Fedor Alexiyovich Jaroshenko. The procedure is defined by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the procedure does not provide for the killing of nests, that's all. I ask you, the procedure defined by the article accordingly. Please, Feder Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Finance today, I have the opportunity to inform you about the state of government finances in Ukraine and to provide answers to the questions that I will be asked. Immediately I want to say that within nine months of our nation’s leadership and all branches of government, the work of Titanic was done without exaggeration. We got the whole government system in a balanced and, in fact, almost incapacitated. The 2009 budget was built on neither a realistic nor a fantastic macroeconomic forecast, none of which was even made. The government budget for 2009 was only 81 percent. To compare: In the same year, local budgets were implemented by 90 percent. At the time of the arrival of the new power and the new leadership of Ukraine, our country lived for almost two months without the State Budget Act of Ukraine. The economy of Ukraine was at the bottom of the gap, being rejected at the 2005 level and the pace of the decline in industrial production at the 2003 level. The government’s financial reserves were almost complete, and the government’s fraud system lost confidence in international financial organizations. In fact, paralysed work was done to compensate for the added cost and accumulated debt, which exceeded more than 50 billion dollars. Even a number of minimum social standards for more vulnerable populations have not been met. They were too small. In fact, it looked like "turbate" in the paws of the past government about the development and care and well-being of citizens. Taking full responsibility for the situation in the country, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine from day one began to correct the current situation immediately through the state administration system and to prepare for the implementation of complex reforms without delay. In the shortest term, a realistic budget was adopted in 2010, which was built on a realistic macroeconomic forecast. He was practically, and once again, tested by all the world’s organizations, which also supported him. So far, cooperation is under way with international financial organizations, where the rating of Ukraine as a state has been significantly improved. And in the financial markets, Ukraine was represented as a reliable country with which all the world’s investors could work. In a very short time, we were able to resume our work with all the world’s organizations and with such an influential world organization as the International Monetary Fund. In the first quarter of this year, I want to tell you that we had growth rates in investment capital of 21.3 billion, which is 3.3 percent below the same rate last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u3	Feder Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues! The thing is, we're not listening to the government report right now. Let's go to questions, because MPs are going to blame them for not being able to get an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u4	I'm the answer. One more question. I'm asking you to show 14 slides where we are. 14 slides, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u5	That's 14 slides.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u6	So, please, 14 slides. I want to show that on the slide that you now have, I want to focus your attention that, today, under the State Budget Act, all the public budget expenditures are automatically financed. Danny. shows that all expenditures, especially social protection, increased by 40 percent this year, if we had 42 billion last year, we were channelling 60 billion to social protection and social security this year. And a row. virtually all classifications are going up. So, please, I have some very interesting information, and I've prepared an integrated answer to all the questions, it's small, it's up to 10 minutes, so if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u7	Feder Alexiyovich, let's think about it this way: we can hand out your information in writing, and these are these visual and evidentiary tables and graphs. Let's move on to the answers to the written questions from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u8	Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u9	Please, come on. The questions later, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u10	Come on, let them ask, I can answer, I have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u11	Well, please ask the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u12	Let them ask, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u13	But no, you have written questions, let's ask written questions. I'm going to go on written questions and sound, and you're going to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u14	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u15	Questions from the factions of "Timoshenko, the Motherland Block." “Analysts, entrepreneurs, the public are extremely surprised and outraged by the hurry with which the government is going to adopt the Tax Code and build on it the 2011 State Budget and the new rules of the game for Ukrainian society. In order to adopt a quality bill with its entry into force since 2011, there is no time, because only in order for such a large document to be processed in the Supreme Council under all procedures and signed by the President would it take at least a long time to work. It turns out that the government and the President are deliberately violating all the legislative deadlines for adopting changes in the tax system and the adoption of the state budget. Are the authorities aware of the consequences of socio-economic development that are awaiting Ukraine in connection with the conduct of the tax blitzkrieg?" This is the first question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u16	Thank you. The answer is that we really understand everything and we understand that we are working on the 2011 budget not after the draft Tax Code is signed, but the work on the State Budget project went hand in hand with the 2010 budget. So we have a scenario approach where the government understands very clearly the situation in the economy of our country and what society wants. And I've told you many times that the 2010 budget is based on an economic model of sustainable economic development plus social standards. And the 2011 budget will be built on a new model, which I'm going to tell you about right now, and I'm going to report when we present the 2011 budget: from the economy of patience to sustainable economic development. We've got everything worked out, models, calculated, recalculated. Now that you and I are fully approved, the President will sign a draft of the Tax Code, for which you voted yesterday, we will present to you very clearly and quickly a new draft budget for 2011 that will be implemented, and I think that the vast majority of the national MPs present in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u17	Second question from the faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." “The absence of a national budget project, according to the agreed government activity programme, of projected core macroeconomic indicators, makes it impossible for entrepreneurs and investors to make balanced decisions for the following year, resulting in further reductions and deterioration of the investment structure. For how many years, the economic outlook is unclear for the next year as a whole. For the next year, will the economic recovery of the country be delayed?"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u18	So the answer is very simple. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me very carefully. We have a macroeconomic forecast for 2011 six months ago with all the world's experts. All the world’s investors are looking forward to the situation that Ukraine is signaling in the world’s markets. So the Cabinet of Ministers led by the Prime Minister, with the Deputy Prime Minister, we have been working very clearly, and today we have a completely balanced macroeconomic forecast based on all situations, so to speak, and the trends in the economy of our country. [[19 slide please show]] And the draft budget that the government sent to the Supreme Council is built on this macroeconomic forecast, where everything is balanced, calculated and our scientists have also calculated, virtually, all scientific institutions confirm that this is a completely realistic macroeconomic forecast that Ukraine will have in 2011. Here it is, the main macroeconomic indicators for 2010, where nominal GDP is going to be 1 trillion 253 billion dollars and so on. I'm not going to call them these, they're famous. We have an exposed and informed society about these macro-indicators. Now we're going to have a fiscal tool, which is tax innovation. We're calculating them and we're still doing everything, the budget is perfectly normal, which is going to meet the criteria that financial investors are waiting for today to hear that the money that will invest in our nation's economy is not going to depend on it, it's not going to be toxic assets, and they're going to focus on constant development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u19	Yes, thank you. Question from the Communist faction. “What does the Government intend to do to implement the current legislation on the status of war veterans and to guarantee their social protection with regard to the payment of annual assistance in the amount of 10, 9, 8 minimum pensions for disabled persons and so on, and how will the 30 per cent pension allowance for children of war be restored by law in 2011?”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Now we're working on this position, and in the 2011 State Budget project, we're going to offer you all these models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u21	Now the question from the faction “BUT – “Fatherland”. Please explain the manipulation of the rejection, the return of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Ukraine's 2011 National Budget project? The latter was prepared according to existing legislation, is that so or not? Have you been involved in its development, and what are the legitimate reasons for it not to be accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u22	First. There's no manipulation. This is an absolutely real situation that lies in the real life of our country. So we came up with some questions that needed further research. Therefore, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the government is obliged to give the Supreme Council of Ukraine whatever legislative initiatives are adopted, we have developed and submitted to you in Parliament a draft State Budget Act for 2011. But you, the honourable national deputies, have decided that the budget should be made in the new Tax Code. So the government, fully aware of the demands of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has done everything possible to develop and balance the draft Tax Code. Yesterday you endorsed him, I thank you very much, and now we're going to be working on the budget completely on all the requirements you want. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u23	Questions from the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. “The current draft of the Tax Code grants privileges, access to various benefits for certain categories of big business, but does not provide any mechanisms for promoting and supporting small business. Do you not think that this asymmetry will result in further destruction of the tax system, and a deterioration in its transparency? And it will have a negative impact on the economic development of the country."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Your Honor, this is an illusion. A new draft of the Tax Code, which gives all levels of the population an absolutely clear position, a signal. He wants a Ukrainian citizen to do a private business, please. He wants to do a little business, please. He wants to be a middleman, please. He wants a big one, it's all absolutely, all the wills. We tried and tried, and we worked with you. Now we need it finally to be signed by the President. To bring him to the citizens of Ukraine from the point of view of normative documents. And our citizens took advantage of the chance for them to work much better than they were able to work in existing tax legislation. The draft of the Tax Code, which we approved yesterday, is absolutely balanced for business to work effectively in all directions. It provides absolutely such a competitive environment for all the citizens of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u25	The question is now from the Communist faction. What state budget and measures will the government offer to recover or compensate lost money from Ukrainian citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u26	In fact, we are now, the question is extremely important and relevant. We're going to recalculate the code, balance the income. And on the draft tax code, you planned, and you didn't give a penny, you assumed, yes, yes. To the poet in the new law, in the 2011 budget, we're going to define and I'm going to report this issue to you as minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u27	Yes, it's a question from the "BUT-Paternity" faction. “Please explain how the government is going to reduce government debt in line with the International Monetary Fund agreements, from 40 to 35 per cent of GDP in conditions where income in the budget is too high, spending is rising, new loans are being taken? Ukraine is on the path of a growing life in debt. Economic reforms and affordable credit policies are not being implemented. How is the first tranche of the IMF spent? Is there a business plan from its rational use and is it not solved for these costs by the private company Rosukreenergo?" Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u28	The question is interesting, but I want to answer what debt today, how government is working on reducing debt. [[and show me, please, the slide we're on.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the language is not what we use to satisfy the needs of the International Monetary Fund. Today, Ukraine has increased its guaranteed debt 10 times since 2007. It's reaching today, an extremely large sum. So in order for us to continue to develop the right system of government, the lives of citizens, so that there are no risks in terms of financial obligations to the world’s organizations, the government understands clearly that we have to reduce government debt. With regard to the income of the budget. We have a realistic budget, and we're doing it. We have a real deficit, and we're doing it. We have a deficit today that you've approved, 54 billion dollars, and we're doing it, is a government deficit. For the next year, we're betting 34 billion -- a government deficit. And it's going to be called 34, because we figured out, and it's all there is. And all of this will not be done at the expense of any manipulation, but all of this is done by means of a balanced government financial policy. I want to tell you all. When I came to the finance minister of Ukraine, my eyes were on my forehead because 37 percent were borrowing funds from the state budget. In two weeks, we moved 17 percent. Now, as finance minister, I'm taking money from financial markets within 6 percent. Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u29	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u30	We are financing and balancing a government debt that we will significantly reduce and bring into line with the standards that our country needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u31	Yes, next question from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". “There is no doubt that the adoption of the new Tax Code will lead to the release of workers employed in small businesses, i.e. the rise in unemployment. As a result, this will inevitably result in lower incomes for budgets, social funds, while increasing spending on them, increasing subsidies for the population as a whole. Has your Ministry of Finance appreciated the consequences of increasing tax pressure on small businesses?"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u32	So, thank you. Yes, indeed, we did. We believe that the adoption of the new Tax Code does not increase financial pressure, but it reduces where we reduce virtually all: income tax, we reduce value added tax, we simplify the administration system. So our goal is not to do fiscal work, and our main goal is to adopt the Tax Code in order to normalize and level all competing requirements for every business, even. And on this base, we have to have a steady economic development. So we think that we only have to increase social standards by adopting the Tax Code. They will increase not to compensate for any risks there, but they will increase so that today, according to the President's programme, these social problems will have to be addressed to support the poor themselves. And the draft budget is going to provide for the cost of further solving the problems and raising the living standards of the poor themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u33	Now the question from the Faction “BUT – Fatherland”. “The State is currently in the position of all the deadlines set by the Budget Code and the Supreme Council Rules for the introduction and review of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act in Ukraine. People's deputies are actually being removed from the budget process. And those of them who work hard in the constituencies have no opportunity to tell voters what to expect from the state next year. Can the government now at least provide information on the basic parameters to be set out in the 2011 budget, such as the future deficit of the State budget, income and expenditure of the budget? Will they be among the main priorities of future budget spending to ensure higher pensions and scholarships, higher education expenditure, health care?” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u34	Thank you. Really. I also want to say that false information is that everyone is being removed there. No one's out. I want to tell you, when I came by the Minister of Finance, I did the first thing in order for each of you to have absolutely clear access to the Minister of Finance and to all the employees of the Ministry of Finance. Open a forum on the Internet. Each of you may not go into my office, but go to the forum, and you can ask any questions, and we serve them and we answer them at the right time. The 2011 budget project is very active in the work with all factions, with MPs, with local self-government -- so constructive work is being done, and no one is being excluded, all with communities, associations, associations, unions. The Prime Minister and the Government have already entered into agreements with the trade unions for further work, which is provided for all the issues that are currently under social protection, and that is where everything is laid down in this agreement, and we will do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u35	Yes, the next question is the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. “In recent years, the need to increase regional financial independence has been repeatedly stressed, financial decentralization policies have been implemented, but neither budget implementation nor the proposed draft of the Tax Code essentially alters the overall dependence of the vast majority of areas on the Ministry of Finance. Does this mean that instead of decentralization of public finance policies, we will increasingly have the nature of centralisation and strict subordination of Kiev?”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u36	That's absolutely false information. You know, I've stood on this rostrum many times this year and I've strongly convinced you that the 2011 budget is being built entirely on new ground. And we've accepted, you've approved the Ukrainian Budget Code, which clearly expands the authority of the local budgets. I'm going to show -- please 23 slides -- where by adopting such a bill we have an increase in the income of local budgets by 18 billion. This is in 20 years in the history of our country, this is the first bill that the government has drafted, passed and balanced. And you know, I've worked with you a lot in all of the previous fields, and I've worked on income for almost a dozen years: I've never had such preferences. So the local self-government agencies, the distinguished national MPs, I just want to let you know that this year, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a balanced budget, the local budgets are being implemented in nine months in almost every region. We have a local budget surplus today. We have enough money on our accounts today in every area. We have about 5.8 billion local budget surpluses. For 2011. I'll show you a slide. Next, show me the next slide. 24th: "Strengthening the component of the investment local budgets." We practically accepted the change before yesterday. The tax code was adopted in general, where for the first time we also send a single tax, a simplified tax system that is sent to the local budget, to the local budgets, to the development budget. And if this year's development budget is 15 percent, next year it's 45 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u37	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u38	So I could tell you a lot about these questions for hours on local budgets, where there's enough good money. And you'll be witnesses in 2011 when you adopt the budget, you'll see that too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u39	Thank you. Fifth question from the "BUT- "Fatherland". “In analysing the draft of the new Tax Code, almost all leading professionals, experts believe that as a result of the approval of its standards in small business taxation, most entrepreneurs will be forced either to give up their entrepreneurial activities or to switch to the shadow sector of the economy. As a result, a substantial lack of funds to local budgets is expected. In what way is the government going to compensate for these losses and ensure that the amounts of funding allocated to these budgets are sufficient to meet the needs of the regions?"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u40	Thank you. I want to ask you to look at the 25th slide. As an answer to the questions you're asking. So I've already announced that the balance that we made yesterday in the draft Tax Code on a simplified tax system, it doesn't give economic reasons today to say that there are going to be very large losses. So every citizen can figure out again which system he's better at, and it won't be, so to speak, the illusions that today, well, they're echoing, and that's normal, without it, because that's where the discussion goes. But what I'm saying is that, given the balanced, harmonised budget system that we've made, we've legally established the budget code, everything in the local budgets will be balanced enough. We used to have a previous model, and we only harmonized local budgets based on basic support. Now we're saying that, yes, we're going to support the basic sectors of our national economy and we're going to make sectoral development. sectoral development of regions, that is, by different sources, including those that will be. We've identified it in the draft Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u41	And the next question is probably the last one in writing. “Is the Government planning to provide for the 2011 Debate project a sufficient amount of expenditure to meet the social obligations of the State to its employees, citizens. In particular, does the draft budget provide for an increase in social expenditure due to a reduction in the funding of the Office of the President, the Government and other central authorities of the State?"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u42	Well, of course, the President has just arrived, he has not yet entered the office, but a decision has already been made to cut expenses to the President's Administration. And we have. in this year, we have also taken decisive measures to balance, and for the next year, all of this will be done. But I want to bring you some numbers to make you understand that government. I showed you the spider, and I want you to look at it again, that in 2010, the government, the new authority that came, has increased the social costs by 20 billion dollars, it's only for social protection. [[Slide 14]] And second of all, not including. We will take both education and health care, others there. And you have to add about 40 billion there, which is an extremely high level of attention, and for 2011, social spending will also go up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u43	The distinguished national deputies are practically given all written answers. questions answered. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Calchenko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Minister! Many Chernobylers are asking such questions that the Chernobyl Protection Act is not being implemented year after year. What are you planning next year, and can it be expected that the Chernobyl law will be fully implemented in terms of social protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u45	I want to briefly answer: yes, not only can you expect, but we will do everything we can to ensure that all the laws in force in Ukraine are implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u46	Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u47	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. First of all, I'd like to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to remind you that at one of the previous meetings of the Supreme Council, at my invitation, you've given orders to put in order a daily bill on financing the Armed Forces of Ukraine at least 2 percent of GDP. I inform you that you have not yet completed your assignment. That's why I'm asking you to conduct a service investigation on this matter. And the second question to Fedor Alexiovich. Whether the government is aware of the disgrace of the state of the Armed Forces or remembers national wisdom — the one who does not finance his army will start financing another’s army. And in this regard, do you support the need to finance the Ukrainian Armed Forces at least 2 percent of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u48	Yes, I support Ukraine as a citizen. But as Minister of Finance of Ukraine, I want to say that in order to do that, I have to calculate, do everything I can to balance, to set priorities, to consult with you on the appropriate ones that we're going to do, to discuss them. You'll see all of this in real life. Then we make a decision: what percentages do we have to put in? Because we have the health rate of GDP, and the education rate of GDP, and the culture, the percentage of GDP, and the defence. So as a minister, it's very important to me that I have to obey all the laws. But if we're making all these laws, we need 10 GDP today to meet all the standards that we have in legislation. And I happen to be in a pair of scissors. And in order to properly finance all of this, we need you with us, I think we're going to do it and harmonize the legislation to make it. It is accepted that it is done to correspond to the real state of our nation's development. Because now we're planning to make normal GDP forecasts for the future, at least for twenty years, and we've been doing it independently of the crises that exist in the world today. Because you know that world society is constantly in crisis in different countries. [[I'm not gonna take up time.]] Whether we want it or not, the world society must find new ways to solve the financial crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u49	Alexander Skibinetsky is referring the right to the question of Oleg Lashko, a non-factional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko. Dear Feder Alexiyovich, the budgetary and economic policy of the government that you now represent, leads the country to collapse, to default. What your government is doing, raising taxes for entrepreneurs, destroying small and medium-sized businesses, is all about you. You claim that you have a balanced financial policy, you've acquired an annual borrowing plan on October 1. Last year, the government gained 132 billion, you're now over 100 billion, and by the end of the year, there will be more. And how you use this money: 40 billion to keep government authorities, 38 billion to keep law enforcement agencies, 70 billion to eat. So you actually spend all your money either on power or on law enforcement. And since your appetites are healthy, you raise taxes for people instead of taking them from the oligarchs and thus solving your own problems from the simple millions of Ukrainians, you find money on private firms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u51	That's a very interesting question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u52	One minute, let him finish the question, for our colleague is speaking emotionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u53	Thank you. You find money on helicopters for the President and on roads, but there's no money for the Chernobyls, for the socially vulnerable, for the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Feder Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. But what I'm saying is, you just don't have the information. I'll show you convincing information, convincing information. [[Slide 4 please enable]] And what you said, I'm also a rude name, and I'll say it's a lie that you said. Why? So show me 4 slides. And show me again, I've listened to you, listen to me. Look at this: 2009: $121 billion in debt. He worked for the government of Yanukovic -- 10 billion. 121, we're canceling out the road right now, we're canceling out, we're bringing in, it's going to be very beautiful. And you will be very proud of the President and the government that works today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u56	Kovalova is referring the right to the question of Michael Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u57	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! We know how much work has been done by the Ministry of Finance to stabilize the situation in the country in a few months. Of course, after that catastrophic fall, 14.1 per cent of GDP. It's like no one in the world has ever fallen since we fell with the past government. Thank God for the past, yes. And in the view of the International Monetary Fund, the main assessment was now given to the Government that the financial and economic situation had stabilized. In addition, GDP growth is seen somewhere, about three per cent. I have a question. Tell me, will this budget be able to increase economic growth by the end of this year next year? And the second question. It's like taking down the VAT problem so there's not so much intention there, but at the same time, there's a lot of unsettled issues about VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u58	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I have some very interesting information. I would like to invite you, we have an open new page and a new topic on the website in Minfin in the forum, and I am making as finance minister the new Program "Reloading the State Finance System of Ukraine on an innovative basis". What does that mean? I have research here that shows that the financial crisis of the state, where there was a very powerful government -- the power that was professionally able to manage quickly, to manage the changes that were needed for the economy of the state. And now Ukraine is, as Mikhail Vasilovich said, 15 percent of the drop. Switzerland is 1.5 percent, the United States is 2.5, France is 2.6, Spain is 3.6, the EU is 4.1, Germany is 4.9, Britain is 4.9, Italy is 5.1, Japan is 5.3, Russia is 7.9, Ukraine is 15. The government is working, we have growth today, and what Mikhailo Vasilovich says, we're actually balancing, we're drawing a new model, we're moving completely on to other models of financing work, so we're not going to be able to make economic growth through old financial systems. Then I'll give you each a book, I've prepared a new book, called P2M, which is project management and programs, which are published jointly with the Japanese Project Management Association, and with Ukrainian. And we're putting it in the Ministry of Finance to effectively manage government finances. And we're going to be able to do everything we can to make sure that the macro-predictions that we're going to make by 2011, they're not only done, they're overworked. Not to catch up and run, but to manage properly!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u59	Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u60	Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, you know very well that Ukraine has once destroyed a promising and profitable film industry, and we are looking with you and our children, and grandchildren are mostly fighters and series of American and Russian films. Recently, the government virtually eliminated, in spite of the Constitutional Court’s decision, the obligation to duplicate films on Ukrainian language, so our children will again watch cartoons not in their own language. Is the government planning to rebuild the ever - existing Ukrainian Film Support Fund? Or in any way to support it now and in the future. And the second question. You know, you're using the word "borrow money," it's wrong, it's from Pinzenik, he's "borrowed," they're borrowing experience, foreign words like "tend," or others, and they're borrowing money. And please don't use the word “borrowing” and if the language has gone, how much money our government has borrowed this year, it has borrowed money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u61	Support. Indeed, the government supports and will support innovation in this area. And if there are any decisions, I've written down a problem that you said and I'll consider, and we'll discuss it with you in detail. It's about the loan. I mean, we don't borrow money, we go to financial markets, Ukraine is a player in financial markets. And we make investments, so to speak, in different fields and in the main capital of economic operators to run different things. So if Ukraine doesn't go to financial markets, it's going to be a small state. All developed countries are the main players. So we did the borrowing in accordance with the State Budget Act and we still have a reserve of about 20 billion. And those things that say that we borrowed a lot there. And what I want to tell you is that the billion dollars that we got as a result of the resumption of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, it's in our currency account and we didn't use it. This is the reserve that stabilizes our financial system, the only treasury account. And you know, we have information on the site, you can clearly see the dynamics of a treasury account, where less than 6 billion of us don't have in the currency equivalent of a bracelet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u62	Maybeard, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u63	Dear Fedor Aleksevic, please refer to the 2011 forecast of the main macro indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u64	Yeah, turn on the board for me. Table 10, please. It's not 10, it's 19. Well, write it down, I can, if you're interested, read it. Nominal GDP – 1 trillion 253 billion, real – 4.5, inflation – 8.9, producer price index – 11.3, labor fund – 391 billion, gross 7.95. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u65	Fomin, "BUT-"Paternity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u66	Alexander Fomin, I give you my word for a question to the Serbian colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u67	Yuri Serbin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Minister! We have actually increased prices for gas and tariffs for the population. Loss of gas 21 percent of energy carriers. And the only way to avoid an increase in tariffs for the next year for the population is to run an energy conservation programme, which means a reform programme for the LHC. The program for the following year is 6 billion. You're planning 2.8. So we're going to burn again, and the networks are getting worse and worse. We're not 100 bracelets anymore, we're 100 bucks. Is it possible to run a program without raising tariffs for which to allocate 6 billion in the budget? That's the first question. And the second question. We have a real downturn in housing. Because we have a rise just because Timoshenko made a decision on the legalization of the housing that was built on 7, 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u69	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u70	So how much do we plan to allocate to affordable housing in 2011 plus for young people building to do the program and with which you went to power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u71	So it's about housing and utility tariffs. It's actually also Mikhail Vasilovich said that these are also the problems that we've created in 20 years of independence, and now we've solved them very poorly, and you know. Because we live in this country and know what it was like and how it is done and what it will do. So it really takes a lot of financial resources to execute this program. And I want to tell you one thing. That I, as a finance minister, am interested in making this field extremely efficient, housing and utilities. It doesn't need to be reformed, I don't like the word, it really needs to be developed innovatively in completely different ways in order to significantly reduce the consumption of gas, water, electricity, the material resources that are used to provide such services. And, of course, without investment, it's impossible to do that. That's why I can promise that I, as finance minister, will do everything I can to make sure that this program is fully implemented in order to balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u72	How? Well, I told you, in defense, I was told 2 percent of GDP should be paid. You have to give up 6 billion. We're going to do everything and we're going to look and we're going to balance where, how much it takes to make it all develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u73	People's MP Mirny, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u74	I ask you to pass it on to Lukyan, a deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u75	We'll do the program in the living room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u76	Please give Lucien’s deputy the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u77	Vladislav Lukyanov, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u78	We know you as a high-level and conscientious manager. But I would like to ask you a question as a person who directly participated in the development of new tax legislation. We communicated quite a lot with entrepreneurs and discussed a number of standards. I have a request: explain to them how they benefit from the new Tax Code, which will benefit the entire economy of the state, which will benefit every citizen, pensioner, student, every family in Ukraine from what we are developing, making our economic system transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. Of course I am. It's such a big question, and in a minute or two you won't tell, but I want to. There's nothing you can say about anything. And I'm going to say very integratively that this tax code that we approved with you yesterday is already a bad code. Because we have tried for many years, while still working in various branches of government, we have done everything we can to accept. But he was. I couldn't accept it. Because it was the legislation that was so inconvenient. And the experts who worked in the government didn't understand, but what should be done, because we've moved from one economic formation -- socialist -- capitalist formation, we're building. And legislation had no idea how legislation was needed to translate the economy of the state from one formation to another. In 20 years, government officials, businesses, all branches of government have learned tremendously both abroad and in various, so to speak, areas where they have great experience. And that effort that we've done is all our Ukrainian citizens want. That is, how he wants to work in Ukraine, on which the principles to protect him are completely fulfilled. As worldwide it is said that man fears death and failure to fulfill his tax obligations. So we made the Tax Code with you so that people really don't fear this tax legislation. So we can take away all the fines that were disproportionate. Absolutely, there was a 1,000 - percent contraction. Absolutely insane – there were no compromises. And very much, I think that you, I promise you as finance minister, will have a comment in about two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u80	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u81	We'll find all the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u82	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u83	Dear Feder Alexiyovich! Gregory Smythech, Party of the Regions. I have two questions for you. Please tell me, yesterday we adopted an important bill for Ukraine's economy, a law, a law – the Tax Code. You do not count that before this law enters into force on January 1, 2012, Ukraine, taking into account the imperfect legislation that had been in force for 20 years in Ukraine, has been required to carry out a financial amnesty for legal and physical persons. That's the first question. And the second question. Now, if you're building a budget, do you count that, given that Ukraine has to go to new markets, and to support domestic producers or technology processes that we can import into other countries by creating our enterprises there, so called, to create funds or to have special budget support for those enterprises that are building businesses abroad, that way they're conquering markets for our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u84	Grigory Yudkomovich, a very good question. Many times we've tried financial amnesty, I've heard your two questions, we're going to have discussions with you, we're going to have a consultation, and then we're going to bring Parliament and the President to support these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u85	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u86	Julia Kovalevska. Please pass the word to the deputy of the Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u87	Volodymyr Oliynik, right? Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u88	Dear Feder Alexiyovich, I, and I think my colleagues share the view that the previous government, I would say so, disgracefully refer to local self-government and essentially bring it to begging, because local self-government without proper financial support is fiction. I welcome the government's introduction of such a positive trend towards increasing the share of local budgets in the state's consolidated budget, and I think this position will find support in this room as well. At the same time, if you remember, there was good support when, in the event of a change in income to the general budget, a portion remained in local budgets that stimulated business development and industrial support. Are you predicting this now?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. Yes, we do. 50 percent of the income tax and 50 percent of the excise tax on the bill, if overworked, will remain in the local authorities. This was also done for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u90	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u91	Feder Alexiyovich, I very sincerely wish to see your optimism fulfilled, and I have two and one question. It's a military program. I don't understand why the government cut down on corvette financing, cut funding, and don't finance AN-70, and the screwwing or helicopter, to make it clear, moved this funding, as far as I know, by 2013, even though there's a need for copies. I think it's wrong. I'd like to hear an explanation from you. Second question. Local self - government. Well, we have 6,000 failed communities. If we do not stimulate the entrenching of local communities, we will never have effective local self - government. Do you foresee direct financial regulatory funding for at least capable territorial communities, where there are five or more, say, thousands of people? And the last line. I don't understand how you got a billion 200 million from the International Monetary Fund and put them down, and they're lying there. What policy is this when money does not work but just lies there? I may have misunderstood you, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u92	So it's about military programs. I want you all to have people's deputies here who are here to make you understand, because for you, I think everyone is concerned that the Prime Minister has been looking at the issue very many times just in the corvette, in the Anes, there are other expenses that need to be financed, there is a Ministry of Defence to develop. We consider these problems very carefully. I work with the Defense Minister practically every week, where we watch current funding, goes to the machine, and we work on how we balance the 2011 budget. No transfer decisions have yet been made, and there is a pure optimization of each program to be implemented in 2011. As far as the community is concerned. I also understand the problem you're saying. I'm working on it. And she will, she has a vision of me constructively. And we're going to show you how it's going to be done. It's about money that's in the treasury account. We have different payments. And just so you know, every state is perfectly well-developed, it never finances its current budget. That's us, Ukraine, that's us. The State has no reserve funds to ensure that the budget is implemented independently of the implementation of the income part of the budget. So the law has been approved by our citizens of Ukraine all the programs that. They must be carried out. If the budget changes, the money goes to the reserve fund. If not executed, there are stabilizers from the contingency fund. We're still funding today. The money's coming. We're funding it. So given that we have a prime minister, an extremely experienced man in financial systems, and I've been working for many years, so to speak, not a boy. And we keep that whatever the situation is. which are costing the economy of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u93	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u94	It's a practically stable reserve fund for our state, where all the good things we need, we can always fund enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u95	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Fedor Alexiovich! Dear colleagues! You know, last year, when Julia Timoshenko's government burned down the school. [[village of Poznan Rakitni district of Ravenna region]] You know, more than half a thousand children, this is a village with many children, in Chernobyl. And you know, the government didn't even pay attention to building this school. And only the new government replaced Mikola Janovich Azarov, and I turned to the governor, explained the situation, and immediately the government made a decision, and 28 million made a donation, thanks to you as finance minister, and this school will be built by the new year. A European example! For this reason these many - year - old families will be extremely grateful to your government, our government. And it's a question. You were noted in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u97	For a brief discussion, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u98	I think the government is planning to start a pension reform. We know it's an IMF requirement. Fedor Alexiyovich, how painful and justifiable are these steps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I may have said such an unconventional thing, but I, when I was in school in the seventh or eighth grade, but I knew it -- it was a long time ago -- that our society is waiting. We've got an aging society coming. People don't want to have many children, they don't have very few children. Life goes on, life goes on. And here comes the situation that we have today, in Ukraine, that we have practically one retired worker. This is an extraordinary phenomenon that was known 50 years ago. This is a demographic situation. That's why it's not a requirement, it's where the IMF, there, drives us away -- it's our requirement. We ourselves need to understand how we should develop the pension system of our citizens. So the government is now working on this topic. I took a lot of calculations here, I'm not going to kill you with numbers, but we're working now. And the Ministry of Social Labour is drafting bills that will be presented to you. And before we're represented, we work in the working groups, and you'll see everything. And we will openly, transparently develop this system of pension reform that would really satisfy the needs of the population, of all kinds. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u100	Yuri Serbin, BUT-Paternity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u101	Mr. Secretary, well, thank you for your promise to implement the affordable housing program, but there are still issues of local self-government. We're all talking about its meaning. The budget changes include 25 million to win the local self - government competition. These are small villages, villages, everything else. Whether it will be funded, because the year is over, December 7th, the day of local self-government, and that's only 25 million dollars is a penny for our villages, villages, small cities. Will it be funded this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u102	It's going to be, or it's already funded, three weeks ago, two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, the “hour of questions to the Government” is over. I thank you, Feder Alexiyovich, for the dialogue with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I hope that it will deepen. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, in particular article 25 on Friday, we have to make the parliamentary inquiries that have come. Let me put it out. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Andrew School to the President of Ukraine for the award of the President of Ukraine with the highest prize of the French Republic for civilian merit, the Order of the Honourable Legion. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:55]] For-64 Request not supported. Kirila Kulikova to the President of Ukraine for not allowing for the destruction of cultural heritage located in the center of Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:09:25]] Z-85 Request not supported. Eugene Kzarow to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the possible inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s day session of the question of the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of circumstances and the consequences of the improper implementation of international agreements between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the state border in the Odessa region. Igor Sharov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the initiative of expediting the review and adoption of the draft Law on the Great State Herb of Ukraine in connection with the need for approval at the legislative level established by the Constitution of Ukraine of State symbols. Groups of National Deputies, Turmanov, Stoyan and others, to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General on the unsatisfactory leadership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences by its President. Andrija Pavlovski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to conduct a population income index, taking into account actual consumer price increases. Andrija Shkila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers from September 8, 2010 on the transfer of budgetary assignments to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which allocates budget costs to the sum of 13 million 400,000 dollars to build a foundation for the Church of Moscow Patriarchate on the remains and foundations of the Tenth Church in Kiev. Igor Jereshka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the wages of education into line with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the government's intention to build the oldest Christian temple of the Kiev - Decathed Church to kill several dozen of the concrete stakes on which the budget will be built, the foundation for the Church of Moscow's Patriarchate, which is an expression of spiritlessness and vandalism, and will have a negative impact on Ukraine's historical and cultural image in the world. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of State Border Services, Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Protection of Constitutional Rights of Citizens of the Village of Gradenice of the Region of Odessa and Other Communities, who have been affected by inconsistent agreements and activities in border areas between Ukraine, Moldova and the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister on energy supply and water supply problems for the inhabitants of Krivi Rig Dnipropetrovsk. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister on the need to provide school buses to schools in the Kyrovgrad region, with the aim of ensuring adequate access to quality education for schoolchildren Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister for financing the completion of the construction of the Radomisl Central District Hospital of the Žitomir Region. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister on the critical situation of financing the construction of a gas pipeline from the village of Decina Corstene region to the village of Old Bobrik Volordarsko-Volinski district of the Žitomir region. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, to provide information on the construction of a new cult building at the site of the site of the monument to the national architecture, the Decade Church. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister on the effectiveness of State control over the quality of car fuel in Ukraine. Alexander Golub to the Prime Minister about the non-payment of arrears on salary for the period from nine to twenty-two months to the employees of the Kyiv State Department of Burrevísnik. Helen Bondarenko Prime Minister, Attorney-General, on the situation surrounding the construction of the building at the expense of the National Budget of the Tarasivska Street Building, the 8-H city of Butch Kyiv district. Peter Simonnck to the Prime Minister on the legality of the appointment of Vasil Kogut as Director of the State Enterprise Zakarpatski Helicopter Association. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister on the inclusion of the social problems of those who have the status of children of war in the preparation and adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. Sergija Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No.1052 of 1 November 2010 on the allocation of 1 million dollars for the remuneration of IKEEN HAMP STRAUS HAIR END FELD LLPY, which unlawfully obtained the right to represent the interests of the state firm UCRWACCINE in foreign courts. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister on the need for a comprehensive state-wide solution to the problems of workers of the Ukrainian Blind Society by means of technical remanufacturing of their production, giving them adequate quantities of government procurement for production, disability benefits for travel, housing and utility and adequate pension. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of travel for persons with disabilities who receive a pension in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister for the improvement of the declaration procedure for changing wholesale prices to food products. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the examination of the grave violation of the constitutional right to land of residents of the city of Irpin, on the task of moral and material harm to them, on the extension of authority by officials of the Borodian District Government Administration, on the illegal refusal of the Department of the State Committee of Ukraine from land resources in the city of Irpin Kyiv region to accept projects for the removal of land, on the use of appropriate measures to respond to the renewal of citizens' rights, on the removal of violations of existing legislation. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for the announcement of November 22, 2011 by the Central Production Commission of the electoral process aimed at ensuring the holding of the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 27, 2011. Vasil Kravchuk to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence for the payment of one - time financial assistance to Andria Zagoruj, a group with disabilities as a result of the illness that occurred during the military service period. Gregory Smythuch to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the appointment of a review in connection with the approval by the Provincial District Court of Kharkiv of the decision on the legalization of the works of the "Premier Palace" casino in Kiev, the text and props of which are not available in the Single State Register of Judgments. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of residents of Chernigov and the area of road safety during travel and the non-admission of passenger transport by means of improper technical means. John Denkovic to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for failure by the tax authorities to execute a court decision. Edward Prutnik to the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, the State Enterprise Centre for State Land Cadastre, the Montenegrin Regional State Administration, on the need for a review of the request made by Alexander Hlebov to provide an objective answer for the results of the examination of the previous application concerning the activities of agro-enterprises in the Talalaiiv and Serb areas of the Chernigiv region. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the practice of implementing state programmes to prevent cancers in Ukraine. Aleksandra Shepeleva to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to find out about the situation of the mass illness of children in boarding school No. 3 of Zaporozhye. Sergija Vlasenka to the first Deputy Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the state-authorized Yuri Kravchenk, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the verification of the activities of officials of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine regarding violations of Ukrainian legislation in the conduct of public procurement. Valery Baranov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the obstacles to the Society's economic activity with limited responsibility for Agrofirma Delil in the Kyiv region. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal redistribution of the funds of the protected articles of the State budget of Ukraine for 2010 for the payment of assistance to families with children, low-income families, disabled children and children with disabilities. Jury Karmazin to the Head of CBC, the Attorney General for the restoration of the constitutional right of two-thirds of the inhabitants of the town of Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk Odessa, who took part in the vote in the elections of the Gulf village head, the use of response measures in relation to the officials of the Gulf Village Election Commission who falsified the results of the elections and violated Ukraine's Law on the Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village and city heads during the electoral process and the counting of votes in the polling area No.01024. Eugene Suslov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inaction of the prosecutor of the Skuri district of Kyiv in relation to the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy. Julius Kovalevsky to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the issue of the issue of the issue of extradition to the inhabitants of the city of Nikopol Dnipropetrovsk - citizens of Maria Tkacuk of the testimony of the wife of the late liquidator of the Chernobyl disaster with the appointment of a pension after the loss of the breadwinner. Arsenija Yatsenyuk to the Attorney-General on the falsifications carried out by the Suman City Chief Gennady Minyev during the election and approval of the personnel composition of the executive committee of the Suman City Council, and on the execution by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the verification of the composition of the crime in such activities of the Suman City Head. Helen Schustik to the Attorney General on the need to take measures aimed at ensuring ownership of the land of the inhabitants of Lviv, guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the intentional non-compliance by the officials of the Lutsk City Council of the ruling of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of 14 October 2010 on the recognition of invalid decisions of the Lutsk City Council regarding the increase in the cost of public transportation of cities and the involvement of those responsible. Vladimir Matvieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of grain on the electorates, the inaction of the Attorney General of Ukraine and prosecutors of the Kyivsky, Cherkaske, Poltavski, Kharkivsky, Zaporozky, Ravenski, Mikolaiyevski, Lugansk and Zakarpatski oblasts, systematic violations of criminal and procedural law, improper investigation of particularly serious crimes and delaying investigations into the signs of particularly serious crimes, unjustified gravity, service negligence and criminal inaction of the prosecution authorities. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the activities of the All-Ukrainian Social Organization "The Ukrainian League of Karate", whose leadership has artificially formed a conflict and a deep crisis in the development of a sports karate in Ukraine. [[Heresy, Babenka, and others.]] Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney-General on the threat of alienation from the state property of the genius works of the unique Ukrainian artist Mikli Głuschenka and their refusal to export from Ukraine, which will result in the loss of part of the Ukrainian national and cultural heritage, will impoverish the spiritual treasure of the Ukrainians and Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the task of damaging the memory of archaeology of the national importance of the town of the literary town of Tustan in the Lviv region. [[Spain, Donya, and Others]] Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the non-payment of arrears on the payroll of members of the Association of Shareholders of the Open-ended Guilia of the City of Pervomaysk, Mikolaiivsk Region, the failure of the court to execute a decision by officials of this shareholder association and the inaction of the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the area of violation of the current Ukrainian legislation. Alexander Shepeleva to the Dnipropetrovsk City Head for taking steps to restore hot water supply in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Thus, honourable national deputies, 59 MPs have been asked. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the question of amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The following is proposed for consideration: To report to TSK head Martinyuk Adamovich - within 10 minutes, how many answers are there? - Five minutes and marches from the factions - 15 minutes, 15 minutes, and 15 minutes. So we're going to have 45 minutes to deal with this. I'm in the rules. Him? It says, no less than 15. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal for such a regular discussion. [[11:23:34]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have another suggestion: that we work up to 13 hours without interruption in order to consider the issues set out in the schedule for today. I'm voting on this proposal, I'm begging you to vote. [[11:24:03]] For 270. Decision taken. I invite you to report to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u104	Honorary colleagues, just a month ago – On October 19th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted 260 votes to refer to the Constitutional Court the draft Law amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads. The registration number of this bill, I recall, 7265, to obtain the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution. I briefly recall the substance of the bill that we then sent to the Constitutional Court, which we have to approve earlier today. First. We've harmonised the terms of government authority and local self-government. Now, if we finally make these decisions, these changes, all government authorities and local self - government will have a uniform five - year term of office. The other one. We've decided on the terms of the next election, and more specifically on the order of the election of the President of Ukraine. They are scheduled to take place on the last Sunday of March of the fifth year. The election of Ukrainian national deputies to take place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of the Supreme Council and the election of local councils and village, village, city heads, which are also scheduled to take place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. Third. In the Final Positions, more faithfully, in the Transitional Positions, we add 15.16 points in which we determine the dates of the next election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they are due to take place on the last Sunday of October 2012 and the next election of the President of Ukraine, which we propose to hold on the last Sunday of March 2015. And another novelty is constitutional. In order to answer the questions that are sufficient, and more precisely were quite controversial, and unfortunately remain to this day – this is the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, city, rural and rural councils and appropriate heads and respective rural, rural and urban heads. You and I had no answer to the question of what term they choose, whether for five years at all times, regardless of whether it's the next or the next election or the election. Or just for five years in another election. And that's why we're proposing to set a five-year term chosen for the next election itself. If local councils or their heads, cities, villages, and villages are to be held on a standstill basis, their term will be calculated according to the schedule. I mean, it's out of turn, it's still ending up with everyone. Yesterday, the Constitutional Court reached its conclusion on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine to the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the amendment of articles 76, 77, 136, sorry, 103, 136 and 141, and Chapter XV “Transient positions” of Ukraine. You, Your Honor, have been handed down the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I'll literally remind him, quote his final decision. “In accordance with articles 147, 157, 158, 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 51, 63, 66, 67, 69 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded that the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution, the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the holding of the next election of Ukrainian National Deputies, President of Ukraine, members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village heads]] [[Registration number 7265]] The Constitutional Court has also concluded that the Constitutional Court’s conclusion is binding on execution, final and cannot be found, and cannot be charged. A meeting of the Temporary Special Commission was held today, with 9 of the 10 members of the TSC present. And 8 members of the TSK voted in favour of the draft decree that we propose to take, namely: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. The bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukrainian National Deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads, registration number 7265 to approve beforehand.” And the second item in this project. That this decision takes effect from the day it was adopted. Therefore, my fellow Members, we have all the necessary constitutional reasons to approve today's changes to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the holding of the next election of Ukraine's national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads. Please, Your Honor, support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u105	Dear National Deputies! Report completed. I'd like you to sign up for a question, if there are. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! It is quite clear that in some circles the decision of the Constitutional Court will result in rejection and a dental cross. I have a question for you to answer from the rostrum, which would be interesting to all the representative authorities. This change to the Constitution on a five-year term applies only to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, only to the national deputies of Ukraine, or generally to Crimea, district, city, rural, village councils and the heads of rural, rural, urban councils? Because there is such a feeling that someone here is making a decision to make a comfortable situation in power. Please tell me, how does the Constitutional Court treat this decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u107	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, my distinguished colleagues, I have already mentioned in the report that one of the main pillars of the proposed changes is to harmonize the terms of all authorities and local self-government in order to exercise their powers. These terms are defined by a single term: 5 years for the President of Ukraine; 5 years for the National Deputies; 5 years for the Supreme Council of Ukraine; 5 years for the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; 5 years for district, district, city, rural, village councils; and correspondingly rural, rural and urban heads. Everyone's chosen for five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u108	Valerius Pisarenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'd like to point out one thing. There we have just issued draft Decree 7265/P1, we need some rectification of its name, we have lost the "elections of Ukrainian national deputies, President of Ukraine" and the word "deputies". And there the title of the decree does not match the title of the bill. I think it's going to be an adjustment, first. And second of all, of course, we have to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court that we have on our hands today, and Parliament must support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u110	Thank you for your vigilance. We've already paid attention to that. Technically, it was the right thing to do. When you were preparing for circulation, the words you were talking about came out. And I have, in fact, not once during my speech, stressed the name of the changes that apply, in fact, to the "recent elections of the Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies" and to the text: "The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils and the rural, village, city heads". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u111	Paul Žebrevski, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u112	Adam Ivanovich, well, accepted the changes to the Constitution. And when was the election of the Kiev City Council and the Ternopil District Council, according to these changes to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u113	Thank you, but I don't have that kind of authority to give you one-on-one answers when these elections happen. If you want to hear an individual opinion of me, I think that the next election of the city's head, whether it's Kiev, whether it's the city council, or whether it's the city council, or whether it's Ternopolis that should still happen, but again, I repeat, it's my personal opinion that it's going to take place with all the elections of all the local authorities in order to, excuse me, in order to unify these terms. That would be the right thing to do. But here we're going to have a discussion when we define or assign extracurricular terms. There's a lot of nuances here to solve this rather interesting question. The Constitution, which means you and I don't answer that question in a clear way today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u114	Vadim Koleschenko, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Respected Adam Ivanovich, recently in the media and in society, was the idea that deputies would thus extend their powers and extend the term of office of the President of Ukraine. Can we today, after the law that we have passed, decide on the Constitutional Court and vote today to say that we have resolved the legal conflict? In fact, in essence, we did not extend the term of office to either the President or the Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u116	Yes, you really did, in your question, and you gave a practical answer. It's about terms. Our Constitution and the changes that we are now proposing are written in such a way that we can never, at any time of our wish, exactly one day endure these terms, because it is possible that, sooner or later, the terms end with the President. Well, let's talk. The President's term doesn't end with the election, we're just holding elections, just like the national deputies for the authorization or authorization of local council members and local heads, respectively. It ends when the newly elected Supreme Council or other councils, or the term of the President ends when the next President takes the oath, and this concept is very extended to us. You know that first, second. election tours and so on and so forth. Of course, in the Constitution it would be worth noting, I do not rule out that we will ever reach such a conclusion, as in some constitutions it is clearly stated from which date of entry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u117	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u118	That would be very clear. And that's what it's about. As far as we're concerned, we're in office on November 23rd, and we're holding an election on the last Sunday of October. So not only do we not continue, but we to some extent shorten our terms of reference.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, time is up. Thank you. Honorable fellow workers! No, you can't. I'd like to sign up for the factions. Please record. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? And now I'm asking you to sign up for the National MPs. So to speak, Private. Can I have your last name? All right, we're on. So, your honorary colleagues, the first one has the right to speak with Andrew Schlell. Ivan Kirilenko, right? Ivan Kirilenko from the Faction of the Fatherland. Then there will be a representative of the Party of the Regions. Who? Verni Dubois is written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! How many minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u121	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! It doesn't leave a feeling. Friday. I can't believe it, the entire Chamber of Deputies! What is involved in this mobilization? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. It doesn't leave a feeling that there's a huge game going on. And the first element of this game, I will never believe it, knowing Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who, to every letter, always looks at every coma with the secretary as no one else – and suddenly Adam Ivanovich is so wrong! In the order of the day, it is clearly black in white: “Elections of local councils and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. I don't believe it! As Stanislawsky said, “I do not believe!” Second element. Dear friends, today it is required that, while everything was being done by the spear, by the grasp of yesterday, you saw how quickly it was done: with the violation of the Rules, laws, Constitution and so forth, - Sas yesterday, our colleague spoke, but why such mobilization, why such a demonstration of muscles? Perhaps in order to be said to apologize for Russianism, to "supply the vigilance of some," or to calm some. Dear friends, it's also part of the game. If the Constitutional Court were to say: “You can’t, read the text of the Constitution, don’t balance, so don’t balance and leave what is written: 2011, March of the month. ” [[Because the 1996 Constitution was extremely balanced in terms of power and choice]] [[if you read literally]] The Constitutional Court has determined: “Perhaps, you liar!” But this action means absolutely nothing, because today, 226, and in early February, I emphasize, the next session only takes 300. But if it's 300, it won't. And even if there's 300 today, it doesn't mean anything. By February, many more waters will be running away, and many will change their minds. So, dear friends, I could call some other elements that give us very high suspicion in this regard, given that those who are in power today always have two election headquarters: one headquarters, one real headquarters, one that is in the Administration; the other headquarters, the white headquarters, what we are talking about, the public headquarters is party headquarters. The headquarters are party after today’s vote more than 300 votes can reportedly fold and rest like this. But don't rest, my friends, it's not that simple in Ukrainian politics. In short, it's not our game, we're not playing it and we're not voting for change. And we urge you not to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u123	Mikhailo Chechetov, from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues under the Constitution, there is a President, the Head of State, there is Parliament, the supreme legislative body of the country, the Cabinet of Ministers, the supreme executive body of the country. And there is a people, a source and a bearer of power. You know, under the Constitution, there are laws that are passed, they can be amended, they can be repealed, there are government regulations that can also be adopted, amended, repealed. There are presidential decrees that can also be amended, repealed or issued. But there is the holy will of the people, which neither in the law of Parliament nor in the President nor in the decrees nor in the decrees cannot be abolished. Therefore, when the people of the President's election marked the cadence of the work of the elected President of Ukraine for five years, it was the holy will of the people. When the people in the early parliamentary elections marked the cadence of the work of the current Parliament in five years, it was the holy will of the people, the source and the holder of the Constitution. Therefore, when we reached a conclusion with you before the Constitutional Court in order to bring it into line. What's this all about? It is now a matter of bringing the Constitution into line with the will of the people. Once again, it is a matter of bringing the Constitution into line with the will of the people, a people directly expressing their will, in a direct, secret vote, tossing the urns, giving the mandate of confidence both to the President and to Parliament for five years. Therefore, in any way we make a mere formality, we bring the Constitution into line with the will of the people. And I think there was nothing left for the Constitutional Court to do, and he understands that no one can change the holy will of the people. And he made it clear that Parliament had full legislative authority today to vote there on 226 votes or more on first reading, to vote by three votes at the next session in order to bring the Constitution into line with the will of the people. Once again, the most important source and institution of power under the Constitution is the Ukrainian people, only they have the right to cancel and amend.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u125	Microphone. Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u126	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party The words of Stanislawski, quoted by my distinguished colleague “I don’t believe! ” inspired me to other words, similar, but this French proverb is: “Belief, but first check who you can trust.” So, I think we need to check this position, which was expressed in due time on the grounds that we don't want to vote. You know, an interesting situation has arisen when so many people sit and wait for others to make a positive decision about it. [[Applause]] It will decide, then you will go out and say that you did not want it, but “believe, but first check who you can trust”. Now, not in the bright language of the poster, but in the language of the facts. And the facts are that the Constitutional Court, Your Honor, had to answer two questions: the conformity of the 157th and 158th articles of the Constitution. 157th, whether the changes affect or violate the two dispositions: the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the independence of Ukraine. Is it here that changes the independence or integrity of Ukraine? No, it's not. On the second question, the Constitutional Court, on what many say, well, falsely says, manipulatively, that the Supreme Council wants to extend its powers here. Well, that's not true, you know. There are many people who took an oath on November 23, 2007. And with the acceptance of an oath, the Supreme Council takes office. And the voters gave a five-year term to the Supreme Council, and everyone knows that. And according to this, the five-year term ends, right Adam Ivanovich said that mathematics needs to know a little bit, 23 November 2012. So in large numbers, the election is due to take place on November 25, 2012, the last Sunday, because the 23rd is due on a day-to-day basis. But it's a trifle, nobody wants to pay attention to it. And the important thing is, I want to read it. For what I know, there will be a lot of people interpreting today, and some news will start: the MPs have continued their mandate. Well, that's a lie. Here's the conclusion. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine notes that the right to be elected and elected was exercised by Ukrainian citizens in the last elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine on conditions of 5 years of periodicity of elections. Therefore, the bill to give the next election in turn to the Supreme Council and the President does not narrow down the content and scope of the electoral rights of citizens. And it's not the bright language of the poster, it's the language of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u127	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u128	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Let's put our hands on our hearts and let's face it, that perhaps the most controversial topic and the most speculative, I have to say, the theme has always been to give exactly the elections and the terms on which both the representative authorities of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine were elected. You remember all these disturbances at all stages of our nation’s development when every political power in its own way and for its own benefit tried to exploit them. Exactly, to interpret what was written in the Constitution of Ukraine. Not only has the solution matured, but it has long matured. Finally, we unify in the Constitution of Ukraine the date of the actual election of Ukraine's national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local and rural, the village, the city's heads. I must say, and you all have the Constitutional Court's conclusions on your hands. And I, on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, urge you all, and I suggest, let's stop these political speculations, put a very fat dot on this subject for many years. And just like the legislators themselves, it is those who work in all the authorities of the state that Ukrainian citizens know for many years that the dates are the elections and for which terms are chosen both by the representative authorities and by the President of Ukraine. And we're going to forget about this, and we're going to have a clear, clear perspective, and a picture. And the critics are critical, but they're telling us in the towers that you're voting to let us know and be sure of your future tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u129	Irina Heratschenko is invited to speak from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, today in this room in front of all the deputies who vote on their own and make their own decisions, rather than the “wake” of one of our distinguished colleagues, there is a very serious dilemma about how to vote. Because it is quite obvious that today's Supreme Council has discredited itself with treachery, “crusts”, transitions from faction to faction, terrible voting for the “wrath” of one MP's hand when one colleague runs in all order and votes for all. On the other hand, we are all well aware of the risks that Parliament faces today if there is a 2011 vote, and a month before that, changes to electoral legislation will be accepted -- as was the case in today's local elections, when all the conditions for falsification were created at the start, to remove the unfavourable ones for the establishment of its deputies. I want to say that most people who have common sense and conscience in this country are well aware that the changes to the Constitution that have been introduced by the Constitutional Court have been made in a completely unconstitutional way. Because if we all realize how imperfect the Constitution was in 2004, then we had to change it in this room by sitting, discussing, and making changes. And that would be fair. I want to say that most of the representatives in this room who represent our faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and I think the BUT faction doesn't recognize the way that the changes to the 2004 Constitution were made. Everyone is concerned and interested in how the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will vote. I want to say that in our faction there will be free voting and we will get out of this principle. First. What we do not recognize is how the amendments to the 2004 Constitution were adopted. And secondly, today's council is actually discredited. But we have to adopt honest, electoral legislation, not at the start of the electoral campaign, but to do it in advance. And now it's a very important request to the Speaker of the Supreme Council. You know, you can rape the Constitution, you can rape the Rules, but no one has changed the Constitution. We vote in favour of amendments to the Constitution, and therefore we call upon you, with the request of our faction, to immediately verify the Rules for the presence of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the Hall, so that today we vote “not in a shift of hand” by the People's Party of the Regions, but each vote in person. To vote, not cards, but MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. Now I'm going to ask the people's deputies to express their point of view. Sergey Soboljev “BUT – “Fatherhood”. Next is Yuri Miroshnichenko. 15 minutes for the MPs, it was from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I remember very well in 2004, as the same part of the hall told us what democratic changes to the Constitution we're going to accept, with the same paphos, the same representatives of the political forces said that eventually the era of dictatorship would end and we could enter into a phase where everything would really be determined according to the will of the people. Now the same half of the hall claims that the wonderful Constitution was, ended in a five - year phase that determined that it was the previous Constitution. But that was not the case! It turned out that they wanted to change to the Constitution, that they forgot that in the old and new Constitution there were different terms for the Supreme Council. What's to be done here? Clearly, as always, the Constitutional Court found itself and came to the aid of the Supreme Council, and more precisely the part of the Supreme Council that wants to continue its mandate. This is an unprecedented case when, almost one day, the Supreme Council of Ukraine listens to the findings of the Constitutional Court, hears the report of a special commission that has been created and is already voting in favour of the decisions that are proposed directly by the Constitutional Court. I just want to remind you that according to the 147th part of the article, after Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's speech, it should be seven days before any changes to the Constitution can be voted on at all. But no one's paying attention to that, because there's one goal: for any way to continue to be authorized. To continue these powers by any means, realizing that even on November 22, when the Central Electoral Commission is obliged to announce new elections under the existing Constitution, you will still not be able to make any changes to this Constitution. That is why whatever decision is taken today, the Constitution of Ukraine will be violated on November 22 if the Central Election Commission does not announce the start of the electoral campaign. This will mean that to this day all attempts to continue to authorize this illegal Supreme Council, which has virtually ignored both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, will not be possible. That is why our faction, the “Timoshenko Block of July” calls for one: whatever vote now takes place in the hall, the elections should take place in March 2011 as determined by the Constitutional Court's decision and the Constitution, which you so recognize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u133	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up is Valery Baranov, instead of Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u134	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, we've heard a lot of political arguments. I'd like to talk about the legal arguments. And what this bill actually decides to do is to make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. From a legal point of view, I think he's solving three important questions: The first question is to harmonize the terms of office of the President, the Supreme Council, local councils and city, rural, village heads. This discussion, the legal debate has been going on for, you know, quite a while, and this bill answers this question by unifying the terms of office for five years. The second aspect of the important legal issue that we discussed was the terms of the city, rural, rural, rural, urban, rural, rural councils, district, district, district elections. Because you know that we have a practice where elections started to go throughout the country, actually throughout the election term. Some time ago, the elections took place, and we didn't know how to bring these elections into the same electoral cycle, both to city, rural, village councils, and to urban, rural, village heads. And the third thing that I think applies to law is the debate on the terms of the Supreme Council's Sixth Call. Now the previous speaker was talking about whether the Central Election Commission had to announce the election campaign on November 22nd. Some of our colleagues, you know, in the discussions, including in the media, said that we couldn't do that. This bill places a dot in this right, I emphasize, a non-political but legal discussion. And the last thing I'd like to say is in defense of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, I would not want us to try to translate our political discussions into the realm of law and involve the Constitutional Court in them. Because you know that the Constitutional Court, by its decision, had to verify the constitutionality of only two articles — 157 and 158 — of the Constitution of HSH. And if you go out of the text of those articles, this bill does not in any way violate these constitutional rules, and according to another decision the Constitutional Court could not pass. Thank you for your attention. And the political decision, I stress, should not be denied by the legal mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u135	Finish up, please. Valerius Baranov. The next thing you know, the party's gonna be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the draft law gives us the opportunity to put order in the eternal problem of who, when to be elected, especially with regard to local governments, when we were unable to make a decision, the mayor is elected every four years, a council every five years. This has been the case in Kiev and in all the other settlements in our country. Imagine how a local government body can work when the mayor changes, all programmes are being disrupted and socio-economic development plans are being disrupted because a new person is coming, a new council is coming, parties are changing, priorities are changing, and this does not stabilize the work of local governments. This problem is removed once and for all by this law. And that's all the law has to support. And the budget code that we have and the Tax Code that we have adopted with you, from the words of the Minister of Finance today, I am very pleased that he stands at the position of delegation of authority to local governments, decentralization of resources, and has named the figures that have encouraged me and, I think, the entire Association of Cities that money will be transferred to places, and we can eventually break the corruption that has flourished around it brings some optimism. I believe that this law solves problems, establishes uniform rules. Our faction of Lithuania and the People's Party support this law, and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u137	National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Verni Dubov will be next instead of Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today we have a historic event in Parliament. To date, Ukraine had different election dates: one year of the President, next year the Supreme Council was elected, one year of local elections and so on. The elections were not over, as the following elections took place. And, of course, every national MP and every politician on such a shift could not fulfil their obligations to the Ukrainian peoples, to the people, to the electorate. The President wanted to make early illegal elections, and we received early illegal elections when the Party of the Regions succeeded. The Ukrainian people, speaking the medical language, now have a moment of hostility, an allergy, with progressive allergies for each subsequent election. Visitivity dropped dramatically. Likewise, the politicians elected to Parliament failed to fulfil their obligations. Therefore, the Constitutional Court's decision is the right decision. Once every five years, we have the right to elect members of the Supreme Council and members of local councils. Within five years, each MP can properly organize his or her work and fulfil all his or her obligations to the people. And the people can ask not only from the MP, but also from each political party. Therefore, I once again support the Constitutional Court's decision and call upon all the political parties in our Parliament and the coalition and the opposition, and the opposition today, do not have to hide - for the elections to take place 1 every 5 years. I ask everyone to take this matter seriously and to vote and show their political autonomy that we can choose once every five years and answer to the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u139	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! All the arguments, primarily legal in support of the need for changes to the Constitution in this room, have been declared. And there is nothing else for me to thank all the members of the Temporary Special Commission and especially the head of the commission, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, for the operational, and most competent and professional preparation of these changes. Indeed, the key to these changes is that we harmonize the terms of all powers of both the top and the bottom. From the Supreme Council of Crimea to any village. And let us not be intimidated in this room by the fact that the Supreme Council is discredited, that it is illegal, that it works poorly. I'll tell you, the fate of the truth is that the individual MPs are discrediting it. They discredit the buckets with these copies without allowing them to adopt normal laws. Discrediting those who throw eggs into the Presidency without letting work discredit those who want to turn this hall into a beating, with smoke checkers -- that's discrediting the individual members of the Council. And Rada, I'll tell you, she's capable, she's working. You will examine how many drafts, and how the Supreme Council works, from when we chose the new head of state. In the history of modern Ukraine, this will be the most effective period of the higher legislative body of the state. So I urge you, let's support these changes to the constitution and vote for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Last performance. Ask the deputies at the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u142	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. As my colleague Evening put it, the people are allergic not only to elections, but also to the Supreme Council, and to the President, and to all the power taken together in the country. More than 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens do not support the activities of the Supreme Council or the President at all. And let's be honest, Parliament has really been elected for five years. The changes that have been made to the Constitution have been made illegally. And the Supreme Council of the Constitution would have been in place for five years. But given what the Supreme Council is doing, I think it should have been dissolved yesterday, considering what decisions it makes: according to the Tax Code, laws that make life worse for citizens. Such a Supreme Council has no right to exist for either five years or four years or one day. Next. Let us take a close look at the bill. This bill actually continues to be authorized, not by the Supreme Council, but by the President of Ukraine. Because the election of the President of Ukraine under this law, which will be voted today, is scheduled for March 1, 2015, and President Yanukovic's mandate coincides with February 2015. And let's figure out what the electoral process is going to be, and in fact President Yanukovic will hold a position of at least five and a half years. Why the President is elected in the United States in November, he acquires power in January, within a four - year term of office. That's how it's supposed to be done with us, not every President takes over. And when you talk about what we're uniting, in one year there's going to be this election, it's not true again, because the election of the Supreme Council will be in 2012, the election of the President will be in 2015. And once again, instead of reforming, we will go around the country every year or year. I believe that Parliament, as a responsible representative body, would, yes, first of all, have to respond to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has illegally changed the Constitution. What do we see today? We see again the illegal decision of the Constitutional Court, and again everyone tells us that everything is okay. In fact, the Constitutional Court did not exist in the country since he consecrated the carcass coalition. As a result, we have problems in the country and with small businesses, both with civil rights, and with freedom of speech, and with the budgetary process, and with the economic reforms being carried out by the government. This is all the result of the activities of the Constitutional Court. That is why I will not personally vote for this bill. This bill aims to usurp power in the country, to restrict citizens' rights, to freedom of choice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. The closing word is Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! I understand that the level of emotional response depends on whether he reaches the next Supreme Council or not. And that explains who's speaking. That's the first one. The other one. I would ask the great experts of the Rules not so much, sorry, I don't have a Ukrainian substitute for toothpicks, because read article 11, paragraph 147, to the end. It says, "not earlier than seven days or in another, determined by the Supreme Council, term." So read it to the end and you'll know, and then you'll wave your hands and everything. And the third. One of the colleagues, starting with the performance, said more precisely by finishing it, that it was not their game. It's not your game today because you've already lost everything. But yesterday you played because yesterday you were the author of a bill similar to the one minute bill that didn't become the Amendment Act to the Constitution because you were fighting for the local authorities, and then you wanted to take the President's throne. You didn't make it then. Today you want to drive the people to the polls in March 2011, because you need to hire some. Here's your game! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I repeat, be aware of what is happening now. And now what the Constitution and Rules require of us is happening. We have a preliminary approval of our Bill 7265, which has reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, which is mandatory for our consideration, and we need to make a conscious decision with you. And I'm sure we'll make that decision with you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's finish the question. A few words. If we thought and cared about the people we were talking about, I'm sure we'd have a technical, routine, we wouldn't have ruined the whole of Ukraine. Because I'm going to remind myself once again that there was a bill and a vote, and then they didn't scream about what was extending someone's authority, and they thought it was necessary to bring these problems down to the Ukraine. What is more, it does not burn people or interest people! We have chosen a fine position: We do not particularly take part in this part of the game when we know that others will do the work you need to do first. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I think that way, if that's the principle of a position, let's go to the bottom of the line -- let's write a statement, get authorization, and prove to people that we're protesting this approach. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because you're tired of listening to this cynicism. Such a desire to demonstrate righteousness reminds the representative of the brothel’s efforts to demand love from the client. Therefore, the honourable national deputies, the Rules, are fully respected and must be read to the end. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to address this issue today. And she's looking at it. That's why. Calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous approval of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. A bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukrainian National Deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads to be approved in advance. [[Registration number 7265]] [[added]] And the second. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[12:16:08]] For 305 The decision is taken by the constitutional majority. This indicates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a high responsibility. For 305. For the faction, please. Region Party – 179, BUT-Batakushina – 10, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 41, communists – 26, "Block of Lithuania" – 20, "Prefactional" - 29. This is also evidence, honourable national deputies, that such efforts support all factions of the Ukrainian Parliament. Yes, I'm announcing the question: the interim report. A report from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the decision of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, the investigation of the corruption activities of the ZAT “Rosukrenerego” and the involvement of officials, public authorities and the arrest of ex-head of the State Customs Service of the Ukraine of Makarenka. The rapporteur is the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Roman Zvaric. Roman Zvaric suggests the following rule of procedure: 10 minutes – speech by the head of the TSC, 10 minutes – questions and answers, and decision-making. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u146	Dear, venerable Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, was created on July 1, this year's interim commission of inquiry with the assumed name, I will not repeat it to shorten some of our time. The composition of the commission is found on the front page of our commission’s report. The report is given to you. I will not repeat the names of my colleagues, but once again I would like to save time, but I would like to thank everyone, without exception, a member of the Temporary Investigation Commission, with whom I had the privilege of leading and with whom I had the great pleasure of working. First of all, I wanted to point out the mode in which our commission of inquiry worked. Already at the first meeting of the commission, it was decided that the commission should conduct investigations into the subject identified in the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the most objective and politically uninvolved regime. In order, in fact, to strengthen our principled position in this regard, the commission also decided to invite everyone to the meetings. For every session of our commission, a representative of the Attorney General's Office with two objectives. The first is to enable the public prosecutor's offices to carry out their functions, namely to keep the general supervision of the legality, the procedural legality of our actions, and in particular, we have asked the representative of the Attorney General's Office to point out to us that he has noted any procedural action on our part that he considers to be inconsistent with the current legislation. The commission also decided that if a representative of the Attorney General raises such a red flag, we will automatically stop any further investigation in the course in which we were going until then. What was the subject of the investigation? I'd like to remind all of us, it's actually made up of two blocks of questions. The first relates to possible corruption by officials of our state, which has resulted in the making of an already notorious decision by the Stockholm Court of Arbitration. And the second area concerned, a much narrower sphere, the legality of the grounds for the arrest of Mr. Anatoly Makarenko's former head of Customs. Now, about the documentary base that we have in the hands of our commission. Dear colleagues, I will speak as objectively as possible in accordance with the mandate given to me by the commission. That's how our commission worked, and I'm going to try to do that kind of work. In the event that I violate this position, I would ask that Vladimir Mikhailovich be given the opportunity then to speak to my first deputy, Mr. Anatolia Kinah, who will then be able to correct any deviations that I would have unintentionally allowed in my report. So, about the documentary base. In accordance with the decisions of the Interim Investigation Commission, 35 appeals were made. Such appeals were made on behalf of the commission, again, according to the decision of the commission, to the Attorney General's Office, to the Ukrainian Security Service, to the Customs Service, to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, to the Ministry of Justice, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the President of Ukraine, to the Gazprom and to the NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. We've got all these answers, but we've also had the opportunity to independently get some documents that we haven't been able to get in response to our requests, which I'm going to talk about. In total, the commission was able to analyse and investigate 87 such documents. In particular, this is a Russian translation of the decision itself of the Stockholm Arbitration Tribunal. I want to point out right now that the original document itself, the original decision that was made in Stockholm, is missing. We also had the opportunity to analyze the individual procedural actions that took place in Stockholm. In particular, this was a testimony to the leadership of NAK “Naftogazu Ukraine”, and these were their official positions, which were expressed as submission. That is, what is called English. This is a formal procedural action where the Stockholm parties have the opportunity to explain or give answers to those contained in an explanation of the other side or to deny certain of those contained in such submissions. We had the opportunity to analyze the third submission of NAC to Naftogazu Ukraine and the sixth submission, rather than the sixth submission, but the reference of the Stockholm Arbitration Tribunal to the same sixth submission. Once again, I want to point out that we don't have the originals of these documents. Now it's about the committee's own conclusions. They're made up of three total blocks. First block. I would immediately like to note with some regret that the commission failed to fulfil that mandate and the responsibility we received from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the following very banal reasons. As we know, the Ukrainian Security Service has exposed the criminalization of a criminal case involving, by the way, the subject of our investigation. On this matter, the Ukrainian Security Service carried out separate procedural actions, including detention, and later the arrest of Mr. Makarenko’s former head of Customs. Other officials are also under arrest today and will be held accountable for the prosecution of the Attorney General’s Office after the transfer of criminal material that is currently being held at the Ukrainian Security Service. In these materials there is, as a minimum, at least one document on which the “Secretary” clause is applied. According to the Criminal Procedure Code, in this case the criminal investigator has the right and this is part of his mandate, to conceal all the materials of a criminal case that happened. Accordingly, all the institutions to which we applied for appropriate documents responded with such monotonous certainty that they were warned by the Ukrainian Security Service that such documents could not be made available to the commission of inquiry in connection with the concealment of a criminal case. Such answers were received in particular from NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and this explains why there is virtually no original document on the basis of which we could establish the authenticity of the arguments of either party. Here, I think we should do it already, I would ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to give me the opportunity to draw my own conclusions until this conclusion is reached. In the absence of a law on temporary commissions of inquiry, I don't think there's any point in creating such commissions of inquiry. Because they will have no authority to carry out the direct mandate that that commission receives from the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to complete its work. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll ask for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u147	Please. And then we're going to cut it down a little bit. We need to finish this report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u148	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u149	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u150	The second block of questions. It refers to the so-called third submission, as we know from the press, this third submission has been changed. In particular, all the references in that third NAK Naftogazu report to Ukraine have been deleted by any mention of Gazprom's superior leadership, or of the Russian Federation's superior leadership. We understood from the testimony that we had received that such changes had been made to the third submission by insistence on the Russian side. [[This was particularly the testimony of former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko]] Our conclusion is as follows. I can explain that. In Gazprom's actions, the commission sees elements of blackmail. So, on the one hand, Gazprom, as a shareholder in RosUkreenergo and without the consent of which RosUkreego was unable to start a trial in Stockholm, requires the government of Ukraine to have any mention in Naftogazu's procedural documents of the higher management of Gazprom or the higher management of the Russian Federation removed. Instead, NAK Naftogazu’s lawyers insisted that such reminders be preserved, since they involved certain oral arrangements. I will not enter into these oral arrangements. But I have to explain that Stockholm is not a court, this is the Arbitration Tribunal of the Chamber of Commerce, where such oral arrangements can be used to prove that one side or another is non-contributory on the other side. At the very least, on the basis of the documents we have in place, we have the opportunity to establish non-lethal behaviour on the part of the Russian Gazprom. And the third block, I'm very sorry, but I think it's very important that I explain this third block because it relates to the sixth application. The commission doesn't have a sixth submission text. However, there is a reference in the Stockholm Tribunal’s decision to this sixth submission, noting in particular that there has been a change in Naftogazu NAK’s position on the legality of the treaties that have been concluded and which have been the subject of a dispute in Stockholm. I explain that until the sixth submission of NAC held such a position that those contracts were made in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine, and in the sixth report, as the Stockholm Court ruled, NAC changed its position. Now we need to explain why such a change took place. We have a letter -- the position of the Government of Ukraine and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy -- which states the following, that the debt concession agreement between Nakom and Gazprom does not provide for the possibility of orderly repayment of the debt to be taken into Roskrenergo by those 11 billion cubic metres of gas. It is appropriate that a letter has been issued by the commission since 21 January 2009 from the deputy head of the government of Gazprom Medvedev informing Rossukrenerego of the withdrawal of this debt to Wat Gazprom for the benefit of Naftogaz Ukraine only in cash form. Instead, as this comes out of the third submission, we understand that the oral arrangements have been made that instead of the monetary form of repayment of this debt, this debt will be repaid in the order of the return of the NAC gas, which was in the gas shelters of our state. Conclusion. I can finish this, I don't know if you're interested or not. But the conclusion is that, as a minimum in Gazprom's actions, the commission sees elements of unconscionable behaviour, which, on the one hand, has led to the conclusion of such agreements, namely, that Gazprom has actually put the Ukrainian side into making such contracts, and then makes all possible steps to ensure that those contracts are not of the least importance. The final thing I would like to say is that I am very sorry that the commission has failed in the light of the circumstances that I have just explained to the end of my investigation. We understand that the deadline for our credentials is coming today, and we are actually making such a strong recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we finally adopt the Law on the Temporary Commission of Inquiry. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize for taking the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the questions are five minutes. Please sign in. Because there was a report for 15 minutes. The point is, your fellow Members, that the Rules provide for all the powers of the commission of inquiry, and he has the power of the law. You just have to train them to listen to the commission of inquiry, that's the problem. Questions, please, are the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Yavorowski, then Alexander Czerovlenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u152	Dear reporter, Your Honor Romane, well, we've listened to your information. In fact, we haven't heard anything yet, because we've guessed something, something the press has already written about, well, it's quite clear. But today there's only one huge problem, which is that actually a semi-criminal group led by Firthash, supported today by both the President and the government, and the Party of Regions are going to roll out, scrape out our pathetic national budget of this $5.4 billion, or let the radios translate it into a bracelet. What else can you do? What else can Parliament do to stop this terrible adventure? I repeat, a terrible adventure. You're a lawyer, you were the minister of justice, what's beyond your investigation, what can you do?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u153	Mr. Volodymyr, I am, unfortunately, limited in my ability to comment on your questions right now, because I cannot refer to certain of my guesses that I can share with you in this case. I can only speak on the basis of documents that are in our hands. And the documents clearly speak of one thing. What happened was a conspiracy. High-ranking Gazprom was involved in this conspiracy. I'll just give you one fact. When entering into a debt withdrawal agreement, Gazprom is counting, more faithfully, NAC is counting to Gazprom $1.7 billion. Now Gazprom says in its reply that the debt should be repaid by RossUkrEnergo already before NAC in cash form. How can this be linked? So NAC thus, more faithfully, paid the Russian side for what? Clearly, he paid for the gas he was going to take away. What right did the Russian side then have to write “Rosukre Energo”, I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u154	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u155	No, he doesn't. He writes “Rosukrenerge” about the fact that the debt should be repaid, not by natural gas, but in monetary form. This is a permissive behavior on the part of exactly the same Gazprom as we report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u156	And Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Roman, I have a question for you. This is if you were so clear about the position of the Government of Ukraine, which is headed by Azarov, as well as by President Janukovic of Ukraine, as well as NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” in this whole situation, if you would consider their actions in relation to the Ukrainian state, to the people of Ukraine, to the interests of the Ukrainian economy. I'm asking you to stop at that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u158	Mr. Alexander, and honourable colleagues, you're actually asking political questions to the head of the commission of inquiry. I can't answer politically, I'm limited. In fact, I would like to train all of us to be depoliticized by the commission of inquiry. Clearly, there are good reasons for criticizing individual high officials. For example. I cannot understand for myself how it was possible to voluntarily accept the claims of Rosukrenerego in Stockholm, but this is my personal position. I'm saying it. When the case was discussed, you see, practically NAK agreed with the claims in the sixth submission and the claims of “Rosukre Energo”. Thus, there was no dispute. And it is clear that in Stockholm the tribunal had no other option, he was, of course, forced to make the decision that he had to make. However, for the sake of justice, I must add that for example, in the commission's arrangement, there is a document that we see that the Department of Fuel and Energy is addressing the General.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u159	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u160	With the request that the Attorney General's Office be involved in a case that has already been brought before our courts. The Attorney General refuses. How can this be explained? As the head of the commission of inquiry, such things cannot be explained to me. Of course there's government action, I see it, it's documented. But it is not supported by the Attorney General’s Office, who is obliged to ensure the interests of the State in our courts. How can this be explained? Instead, the Attorney General's Office is suing NAC to pay off this debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u161	Thank you. Andrew Kozemyka’s question. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u162	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, please ask me a few questions. Have you been given an opportunity by the security services of Ukraine to familiarize yourself with the material of the matter, because, as of October 8, I know that the Count of this matter is no longer “secretly” and “for official use”? That's the first question. The other one. Why none of your board members have ever met Anatoly Makarenko, as the commission intended. That's two. And the third. One of the members of the commission was at least once in a court of law at which the custody of Makarenko, Didenko, and Whisperer continued. Because no court has ever proved that there are grounds for keeping them under guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u163	The first question was, of course, a document by Mr. Makarenko's lawyer, the answer to the Ukrainian Security Service, which was not the subject of our commission's analysis. Because I got it from the end of the board meeting. About the fact that the "Secretly" has been removed over this criminal case. Here I would like to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, above all, to the members of my colleagues of the commission of inquiry, that here I have been sent a letter of appeal, a parliamentary address as yet to the time of the head of the commission of inquiry, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given the opportunity to consult the materials of this criminal case. This address was addressed to the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. Since there are no legal barriers to familiarizing ourselves with this criminal case to date.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u164	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u165	I have two more questions, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The commission was unable to meet Mr. Makarenko. In addition to sending two of our representatives. But the Ukrainian security investigator forbade us from seeing him. What caused us to react. And we called this investigator to a meeting of the interim commission of inquiry, as well as, as a witness, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Valery Horoshkovsky, was also summoned. One and the other refused to give a witness before our commission. In addition to the appropriate Law on the Rules, where it is the responsibility of a high official to give such a witness. We didn't get them. And as far as detention is concerned. I didn't talk about it, my dear colleagues. I'll only answer with one sentence. The Commission found that it had not received from the Ukrainian Security Service any documentary confirmation of the legality of their procedural actions regarding Mr. Makarenko's detention, his arrest, and his detention. I mean, what were the legitimate reasons, the reasons for doing that. I'm not saying they're gone. I'm just saying that the Ukrainian Security Service has openly ignored every request, every requirement, I would even say, which was shaped by a decision of a commission, unanimously taken by decision, and to which we have not received the slightest response.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report and the answers to the questions have been completed. Special thought will be given by Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich. How long do you need? Five minutes, huh? Three minutes. Invite the national MPs, because we're going to have to make these and other decisions right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u167	Dear National Deputies! The issue that we are considering is certainly an integral part of Ukraine’s energy security and has an impact on the development and effectiveness of our economy. I would like to point out, for confirmation, a partial report by the chairman of the commission that the special interim commission had represented the deputies of virtually all factions of our Parliament. And from the point of view of the question, we agreed to consider at all stages of the Commission’s work the issue, based on the priorities, the interests of Ukraine, the law, without politicization and short - term political or personal conjuncture. And I am grateful to my colleagues on the committee that we have performed such an algorithm of work and content. I would also like to point out, by addressing both Parliament and our fellow countrymen, two facts that are of very fundamental importance. First, as international experts have noted, including the decision of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce Arbitration Institute, the main reasons why the decision was not taken in favour of Ukraine is that in 2009 the Ukrainian government withdrew the third submission, in the context of which Ukraine sharply weakened its legal position in this arbitral situation. The second, which is also noted by experts and documented, did not provide for a resource form in the contract to renegotiate the NAC's debt to Naftogaz Ukraine. The contract made it clear that the transfer of the debt to the form of money was made. And that was taken very negatively in Stockholm and viewed as a gross violation of international law in the context of the rights of the owner. Today, it is suggested that all materials should be taken into account in the direction of our further activities to protect Ukraine’s national interests in this regard, taking into account both international law and our national legislation. And the commission, by unanimously supporting this conclusion, by calling on Parliament to make a final decision, and by continuing to join forces to protect the interests of our nation together at these stages. And certainly, the issue is broader in Ukraine’s overall energy security: price, conditions, transit, issues that relate to the very important problems that arise before Ukraine’s economy in relation to alternative routes of natural transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u168	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u169	I am sure that the whole set of issues needs to be considered only together, bringing together efforts with the President, the government, because we are now forced to note a sharp increase in Ukraine’s energy security. Our producers consume an average of $50 or 60 per thousand cubic meters higher than they have in Europe. Alternative pipelines are being built that will at least halve the transit volume of natural gas through Ukraine. And we would ask the entire Parliament, together with the government and the President, to join efforts to protect our interests in these strategic issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u170	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. And invite the deputies to the session room, please. Dear National Deputies! The commission prepared a draft decree for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to put the vote on the ground, and then, if there's no objection, we're going to move on to accept it as a whole. I'm voting on a proposal for a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling as a basis. [[Registration number 7373]] Please vote. [[12:47:30.]] For 254 Order accepted as a matter of fact. Dear colleagues, you have a decision to make. Article 1 gives you any doubts? Well, I'm voting on Rule 1 of Decree 7373. Please vote. [[12:48:07]] For 252 Paragraph one accepted. Order number two. paragraph 2 of the Second Order. the draft decision. [[Registration number 7373]] I'll bet you a vote. Please, let's vote. [[12:48:35]] For-44 The second item is not accepted. The third paragraph of this decree. I am voting on the draft decision. [[12:49:02]] For -6 No, it's not. Paragraph 4 of this order shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:49:27]] For 248 Well, paragraph five: "This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted." Should I vote? I'm betting on the vote and number five. Please vote. [[12:49:51]] For 246 So, respectable colleagues. Please, Roman Zvaric, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I have asked for this word so that our citizens can understand why this vote is taking place. In the second paragraph, it was a matter of directing the materials of the interim commission of inquiry to the Attorney General’s Office. Dear colleagues, this is the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I told you there was an unfinished investigation. The only body that can complete it is the Attorney General’s Office. So in fact, not including this point before the decision, you're digging it up. Nor do you vote for the report of the commission, as provided for by the Rules, to be published in the Voice of Ukraine. It's not fair, you're being mean now, dear colleagues, and that's why you don't need it, it doesn't suit you when you're acting like it!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute! Dear colleagues! There was a remark by the head of the TSK. I'm going to put the vote back to -- one minute -- point two. And I have to tell you, even if the Supreme Council doesn't support this, I'm going to send these materials to the Attorney General's Office, along with each faction having quotas and publishing what it thinks is necessary. Even if the Supreme Council does not support it, it will be possible to resolve the problem. I'm voting on the motion to return to the second draft of Decree 7373 on the return to paragraph two. [[12:51:44]] For-32 We're not back. So I put to the vote a draft order for adoption as a decision consisting of paragraph one, paragraph four and fifth, by renumbering accordingly. [[Registration number 7373]] Please vote. [[12:52:16]] For 247 I'll take the order. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, yesterday we adopted the Code of Taxation of Ukraine at the evening session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. At the same time, we talked about when, in the process of processing the decision that we have made with you, namely, with regard to the Tax Code, there will be disagreements and other technical legal aspects, in accordance with the Rules of Article 131, appropriate proposals for the Tax Code and clarification will be proposed. They are prepared, processed by the General Legal Authority, on which are appropriate visas and committees. As a result of these proposals, I signed an appropriate application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as required by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm asking the Homutinika now, please brief you on the content, in three minutes, of the content of these proposals. Let's move on to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u173	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. On behalf of the Supreme Council, the Committee was working on amendments to the Tax Code, which dealt with the technical, legal, terminology, numeration, and positions of the legislators, from individual factions that we had agreed that the committee should work together on those or other positions. We had 18 pages of text. We worked with the Governing Council’s Legal Office on this text. And the main questions that I'd like to highlight are the factions that were asked. First, a tax on the income of natural persons. This question concerns tax benefits for the participants in the fighting and the disabled of the first-and-second group. This question was raised by the Communist faction, it's included in this table. That is, a 150 percent discount for participants in combat and 200 percent for persons with disabilities. for those involved in the fighting, who are disabled, disabled first and second group. And there was also an offer from the Lithuanian Block, namely the Vasuk People's Deputies, about the commercial price of agriculture, which is taxation on the added value of the commercial price. This question is also taken into account. And the next question from the faction was about moving tax base. calculation of the real estate tax base from the total housing area. So the end line is going to be the same meter, but it's already being calculated from the residential area. The question was also raised by Kurilo, a national deputy, on the value added tax, on services provided to students or students in dormitories. This question is taken into account. And there was a question about the type of activity that was simplified. They're working on a simplified system. After working, we erased seven activities, allowing seven more activities to be done by consulting the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u174	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u175	It's a simplified system. This applies to the field of transport, which means transport will be able to work on a simplified system. It's entertainment, except for the gaming business, it's engineering, it's geology, it's geodesy, it's technical testing, it's a few more positions. They are also deleted in this text. All the other questions, as I said, are of a technical, legal nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. Dear colleagues, before we go to the vote, please express your attitude in a minute from the factions. Factions, please. “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, is there anyone? Xenia Leapina, please, microphone. Then it's from. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u177	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Respectful colleagues are certainly making some positive adjustments to these changes, particularly with regard to the list of activities. However, I note that in fact this list of amendments contains meaningful changes, and they are not technical, they are not that they bring the article into line or correct mistakes. These are serious meaningful changes that need discussion and perhaps expansion, perhaps some other change. We insist that this cannot be done, that we cannot wave all the time, a venerable majority. This cannot be done by voting on that article of the Rules. This is a clear reason for us to submit to the Constitutional Court so that we can understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u178	We worked on this text along with the Supreme Council’s legal office. And it was the legal office that prepared the entire text. That is why I think they have consulted on article 131 of the Ukrainian Rules. And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u179	Thank you. Please, “BUT is the Fatherland, ” Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, I fully agree with my colleague Lápina that this is not a disagreement and inaccuracies is proposed to vote, and this whole article, the whole changes to the articles that are burdensome, they establish legal norms. As for the procedure, Vladimir Mikhailovich, now should not be the committee head standing on the rostrum, but the amendments should be announced and reported in accordance with part three of article 131. Each amendment is discussed in accordance with Article 45 of the Rules, each amendment has to be discussed, each amendment has to be voted on. And you've introduced a whole book, a half-tax code, and you want to do it with one stroke. Follow the rules of the Supreme Council, and if you do not, you will be offended again that someone is not doing the same to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Oleg Zarubinski, then Mikhailo Chechetov, then Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u182	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party You know, very rarely thank the minister of finance, that kind of work, more always criticism, comments and so on. But I want to testify, to the execution and the minister of finance, and to the profile committee of those public, non-culinary agreements that were reached yesterday. In particular, this relates to the issue of real estate, you remember that there was a discussion, a constructive discussion, where the tax position was replaced from the total area to the housing area. All the people who now hear us have to understand that this is a serious plus for those people who are not oligarchs, for those people who don't have a thousand meters of buildings, but people who want to develop a household who want to build a house for their family who want to live in our country. I thank both the Minister of Finance, and the head of the committee of Homutinik for fulfilling his obligations, that is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u183	Mikhailo Chechetov, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u184	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think 305 votes for the Constitution, it was the coldest shower on the hottest violent heads in Parliament. Let's move on to a calm and constructive path, we have moved away from politics. Yesterday, when we went through an article in two days, I don't say two days, two days ago we considered the code, listening to all the arguments, voting in an article for all the amendments. Finally, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litwin stressed that part of the non-agreed articles in accordance with the rules of the Rules we can then agree on technical procedures to vote on another day when the committee head, when the Ministry of Finance will be ready to make these amendments to the Supreme Council. In the course of the night, our task, which we have assigned to both the Committee and the Ministry of Finance, has been accomplished. Today, in fact, they have prepared the product that we must vote on in order to finally send the law to the President for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u185	Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u186	Thank you. We are certainly grateful for taking into account our proposals for a solution to the problem of aid for war invalids, war participants, war participants and those who are now in force under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. That's good. But, unfortunately, we didn't hear, nevertheless, a distinguished reporter, how the Tax Code finally solves the issue of luxury taxes, particularly, I don't mean housing, but how do you know about the problem that we're constantly raising on yachts, planes, helicopters and so on. I would ask you to answer that question. And the last. How it ends in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u187	Microphone, finish the talk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u188	the establishment of a special regime for the agricultural producer. What we were talking about yesterday, especially in the language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor, for the faction has been exchanged. Oleg Light from the non-faction group and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u190	Thank you! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Oleg Lazko will speak for himself, not for the non-fractional, for I was not authorized, but for myself. First. This is the 20 pages of the new law that you're actually passing in the Council and you want to vote without discussion, without listening to other thoughts, it's totally wrong. I have not found here, and I am addressing both the head of the committee, and the Minister of Finance, the private issues here have been resolved, and I read: “The person on whose behalf the royals belong is not subject to taxation” and thus similar preferences for the great oligarchs. Show me at least one word where you went here to meet a small and medium-sized business where you considered all those requirements when thousands of people came to the council, and you had negotiations with you, etc. Show me where? Have you removed a standard that prohibits buying from those who pay a single tax? Did you lower your taxes instead of raising them? Show me where in these so-called supplements, you're protecting small and medium-sized businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u191	Please, head of the committee, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u192	Regarding the Royalty, read carefully: “The person for whom the Royalties are listed is not an object is not subject to taxation of the attitude of the Royalty in the State of which he is resident.” If you look at the context of the entire text, we're talking about that we've banned the code from off-shore zones, we've actually banned it, because the mechanism is that it's not about gross costs, it's about profit if the counting of royalty goes into off-shore zones, it's also about 4 percent of circulation. It's also an additional condition for there to be no abuse in the royal sphere -- that's the first. As for the simplified system, the points we agreed on with the government, I counted them. In addition, you can see, including those points that both the factions and the Party of Regions insisted on, and the faction of your block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u193	Please, the proposals made by the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u194	Oh, out of fact, I'm sorry. Not from the block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u195	Vitali Juryovich, about the comments on taxation of pleasure: helicopters, ships.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u196	I'm going to say again at the third time that we've been introducing this tax since January 1st, and it's going to work since January 1st. So he, we took into account the position of the Communist Party faction at the second reading stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u197	Thank you. Feder Alexiyovich, please, on these proposals: the position of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u198	Yeah, yeah. I want to complete Vitali Hometinik, answer the question of the people's MP Matthews regarding the positions that occurred yesterday after the continuation of special taxation in the agricultural and industrial complex. So this position is also taken into account. The calculated position until 2017 continued the special taxation regime in the agricultural and industrial complex -- what we promised you. Regarding other articles, I could also add that everything here is completely balanced. Regarding royalty, this standard makes it possible to tax the royalty of those involved. It's just things that are prescribed in the Tax Office and it's very difficult to understand people who don't do this kind of business every day and don't pay taxes in that direction. With a small business, I've already told you. You'll see how good it's going to be for a small business, well, we'll give you advice if you have trouble with small or medium business. So I'm asking the people's deputies to vote today for these changes, and I'm going to thank you very much. We will continue to cooperate actively. Mr. Lazko, don't bother working from, yes. Vote for changes to the law we passed yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u199	Dear national MPs, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, we adopted the Tax Code with you yesterday. Clearly, not everyone supports him. Clearly, there are different points of view. So let's get out of this simple obvious truth. [[Well, I'm begging you.]] The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine believes that he needs such a document. So let's think about how this document works over a period of time. And then we will have reason to either present the claims of the Cabinet of Ministers or thank them for what they have done. I think the very atmosphere in society, the moods of people, the economic results, they will either support us, or force us to react accordingly. [[Please, please.]] So, dear fellows, let's not kill each other. Takes responsibility, practically, for the government. Let's vote. If you support it, yes. No, the President's signature will then go to the option that we voted absolutely yesterday. And I'd like to ask you, with understanding, to take this approach. So I'm voting on the proposal to the Tax Code that you're given. Please vote. [[13:10:49]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. Now we've got the Vizne, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the “Virgin”. Dear colleagues, take a look at the board, take a look. And before that, I want to make an announcement. According to the minutes of the Lithuanian MP's faction of 16 November 2010, I am informing you of the change of the name of the Lithuanian MP to the National Party's deputy faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please have an hour of the “Variance”. Ivan Stojko. No, I don't see Stoick. Oleg Lazko, please. Goats to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the careless, insidious economic policy of today's government. First of all, I would like to point out that the government of Azarov recently signed a new memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. In particular, the memorandum provides for an increase of 50 per cent in gas prices from 1 April 2011, an increase of 5 years in the retirement age for women, a repeal of the Law on the Prohibition of Penance for Non-Payment of Housing Services. In return for the country’s social acquisitions, the government receives an additional one and a half billion dollars of debt, which has already been paid over 100 billion in this year, and is dragging us, our country, into a further debt pit. This is the balanced economic policy of the government that we were told about, including today by government officials. In an effort to justify its failed economic policy, the government is raising taxes on small and medium -sized businesses, effectively depriving millions of Ukrainian families of the right to work, the right to pay, the right to support their families, and the right to raise their children. That's why we're initiating -- opposition, small and medium-sized business -- we're initiating a nationwide strike Monday to protest government opposition. I call on all concerned Ukrainian citizens. And what today’s government, the current government, is doing is affecting millions of citizens who, as a result of the activities of today’s government, will be out of work, out of pay. I call on millions of these citizens to come to Midan Independence on Monday morning, where to start an untimely protest against the activities of today's government, against the adoption of the Tax Code. I call on millions of Ukrainian citizens who will not be able to come to Majdan Independence for any reason to express their protest by stopping work on Monday. Everyone has to stop working, enrich the oligarchs, enrich the power! Plants, factories, hospitals, schools, ambulances, shops big, small,--everyone to strike! Everyone stops working! All must say no to the activities of today’s government aimed at the destruction of small and medium-sized businesses aimed at the destruction of millions of Ukrainian citizens! Not today's power! Everybody, strike! Everyone to Midan on November 22nd at 9 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u202	Yes, please. Kozub handed over Koleschenko. Prepare Gnatkewicz. He passed the hair.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u203	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! Tomorrow, 65th anniversary of the work of the Nuremberg Tribunal. The Nuremberg Tribunal condemned the fascist Germany, the leadership of the fascist Germany, for being a terrible tragedy in the history of the entire world. Nuremberg has declared Nazism a criminal ideology. These actions were condemned by the accomplices of Fascist Germany and many of the traitors of their people have been punished. Nuremberg's material has clearly been demonstrated — not to be physically singled out for any part of the SS that would not participate in criminal activities, and to declare any member of the SS military criminals and the SS a criminal organization. However, literally a year ago, President Yushchenko, with the participation of pseudo-scientists from the Ukrainian Security Service, attempted to bring into the ranks of the Fascist regime supporters Hitler Bander and those representing the Essex Division Waffen-SS, Galicina Division, the two Nakhtigal and Roland Special Battalions, other security diversification units that swore allegiance to Hitler. These units carried out police-specific punitive protection functions for the SS, commanded by future UPA leaders, Roman Suhjevic, who was awarded Adolf Hitler Iron Cross and President of Ukraine, the name “Heroi Ukraine”. These shameful phenomena, the restoration of Fascist national-socialist ideology in Ukraine and elsewhere in Europe are being addressed by many international organizations. Literally in November, the World Without Nazism International, which includes more than 30 countries around the world, requested Ukraine to cease any State attempt to restore members of the anti-Soviet movements working with Hitler's Germany and align them with the Red Army veterans and the army of the Anti-Hitler Coalition. On 1 November this year, 65 sessions of the General Assembly adopted a new UN resolution on the inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to the escalation of contemporary forms of fascism. The United Nations indicated once again that any entity that opposed the countries of the anti-Hitler coalition was an aid to fascism. Today, Hitler's Main Kampf, Hitler's busts, is available in Ukraine on the Andreev descent. Today, our television channels are broadcasting a famous young singer who tells of Adolf Hitler and Eve Brown’s wonderful love for the Nazi symbolism. This is what we see today, our country that has suffered the most from national fascism. People, be vigilant, the brown plague begins its movement in Ukraine, let us unite in the fight for the future, the bright future of the Ukrainian people and for our historical truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u204	Please, Gnatkevich. Get ready for Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u205	Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear compatriots! The last six months and even the last two have convinced me. That we live in some strange country. Sometimes I say, we live in absurdity, starting with a small one and ending with a large one. Money, it turns out, doesn't lend to our government, it lends to the minister today, it only borrows what they don't give: experience, foreign words, manners. Money needs to be paid. If the translators understood that borrowing was another word, they wouldn't lend us. The new neologism is the falsification of elections. You know, I ran around here in Kiev in 1990 in the Yellow District, and I had a rival in the district council of Kojanov. He could have tried to falsify the election, but then for the Communists, even no one did it, we didn't know it. And here I read the paper, this is Ukraine Young: "As evidenced by the previous campaign practice, the main mass of voters goes to vote by 16 hours, and in the Belogonian, Proletarian regions of Donetsk, they decided to break this tradition and move the columns under cover from 20 to 22 hours." What's being asked from here? Is it not the One who signed the lists that Stalin gave him? In 1994, in the first presidential election, we waited three days for the results of the elections from the Donetsk region. We didn't even know there was a forgery going on. Recently I ask Leonid Krawczuk: “Leonide Danilovich, did you know that counterfeiting is coming?” "I knew it." “Why did you keep silent?” And he says: "What was I supposed to say. The police minister and the KGB chief were put in their pants. I call them, they're gone." That's when the story of falsification started, and it's going on today. Who would have been president in 1994, if we hadn't waited three days, but two hours, how was that accepted? You know, I'd be Kravchuk the President. And in 2004, how many tours would there be, three or two? Two would have been, and Yushchenko would have won. And in 2010? If we made the administrative court count the votes, who would be the president? Timoshenko would be president. And if they were listed in Hark's voice now and not scared, who would be the mayor of the city? It would have been Habakkuk, of course. So in this, I'll tell you, the absurdity in which we live, I don't expect anything good. I want to remind you that the Daughter's Shaktar team, when it became suspicious of the judges, it was. In the game of Dynamo, she began calling judges from other states. Maybe we should call someone right now to count the votes, because as long as they vote. Count the votes in Donetsk. No one but the Donkeys will ever win again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u206	Shevchuk Sergei, please. Get ready. Gordienko's handing over the Cybenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u207	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear friends, two trends are currently being observed. The number of appeals made by Ukrainians who submit applications to the relevant authorities regarding the cessation of entrepreneurship. The mass of these statements is that in certain regions they are already asked not to write a statement. These statements are not accepted. Ask him to convince himself not to stop doing business. You know how in the U.S.A., when a couple divorce and apply, they are arranged to spend some time together, because the local authorities understand how harmful this is for the territory. And the second trend is the massive influx of applications for foreign passports. Practically Ukrainian entrepreneurs are preparing for a new wave of labour migration. Let's take a closer look at these trends. I was approached by young, computer scientists. They work as entrepreneurs. They make good money. Within Ukraine, these costs are estimated at about $1 billion that they get from abroad for their product. Someone writes music, someone writes poems, they write software products and they trade them, and they do it no worse than Pakistani or Indian experts, and they do it better than American or European. Today they go in the shadows. What will they do, Your Honor? Either they're going to leave or they're going to do what's called cybercrime. Because if they write programs to protect bank accounts, how to secure security in financial institutions, because when they're unemployed, they're going to hack, they're going to cover systems, they're going to take out personal accounts of every Ukrainian citizen of any bank that they can access. They know how to do it. Cybercrime is the number one problem around the world. We are in Ukraine only helping to spread it. Because smart people, intellectuals in Ukraine have become obsolete after today, after the adoption of the new Tax Code. And the second trend is to try to emigrate. You know, it's a lot easier than before, especially in the Soviet era. Under the Treaty between Ukraine and the EU, those who have legalized in Western countries have the right to invite their relatives, their families, with a simplified procedure. So we'll expect, unfortunately, a mass brain drain. What the authorities are offering. Our guarantor went to Hong Kong -- and there he promised, think about it, promised a visa-free regime for Hong Kong residents, which means all of China. This is their convenience: Instead of those who think about democracy in Ukraine, instead of Ukrainians, there will be representatives of the yellow race, who will be silent workers in their factories, factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u208	Thank you. Peter Cibenko. He's still being handed over by Volintz. It'll be six minutes. Get ready for Kovalevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u209	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear voters, venerable veterans! My speech will be of a purely informative nature. The passing week in Ukraine's public and political life was marked by the adoption of the Tax Code. By implementing the technical law of the Code, today, we have completed this process. But the event was far from unique. As head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, I'd like to inform veteran activists, the entire veterans of a series of important, I'd say, sign events in the veteran movement that took place this week. In particular, on November 16th, there was a follow-up tour of the heads of the regional veteran organizations to the Ukrainian National Medical and Social Center of War Veterans, which is located in Cibly. The main purpose of the trip was to examine how current legislation on the social protection of war veterans is being implemented at this country’s only war veteran center. On November 17, there was also a scheduled meeting of the Ukrainian Veterans’ Presidium to address the current problems of life and organization. But the most important, most significant event took place yesterday, November 18. The point is that for the first time in the history of the veteran movement, the Veteran initiative took place as a prisoner for the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, together with the College of the Ministry of Health. This joint meeting dealt with an extremely acute and painful veteran issue, namely, the situation and measures to improve medical care and medical care for war veterans, workers, children of war, war veterans, other pensioners, elderly citizens in Ukraine. In addition to veteran activists, the special meeting was attended by Health Minister Zinovy Mikolayovich Mitnik, head of the State Committee on Veterans Plasconos Igor Mikolayovich, a number of deputy ministers of health, work and social policy, other ministers and authorities interested in resolving the issue. Members of the College of the Ministry of Health, the heads of the district administrations, or their deputies, the heads of the district health authorities, the chief physicians of all hospitals located in Ukraine. That is, the very list of those officials who took part in this meeting tells us that the approach was completely national. The aim of the joint effort was to find additional steps to make medical care, its quality, and its accessibility to this most important and most respected part of our society. From the question under discussion, a fundamental and comprehensive decision is made. This is the decision that has to do with the hopes of the veterans for a major, radical improvement in medical care. So today, when I inform Ukrainian veterans, I want to say that this joint action by the Council of the Ukrainian Veterans' Organization and the College of the Ministry of Health is not over, but it is started because similar joint meetings will be held at the level of areas, cities, areas and areas, and there will be a slight shift in the situation in the health security for the veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u210	Thank you. Please, Julia Kovalevska. Get ready for Plednik's,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u211	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, TV sets and radio audiences! On Sunday, November 13, the last dot was finally placed in the local elections. Now it's possible to summarize the totals for them. Some feel that local elections were worse than presidential elections. This view has the right to exist. But first of all, one thing to remember is that when presidential candidates propose a strategy for the development of the state, and another when yesterday's best men and women pour dirt on each other in their efforts to win at any price. However, the electoral process could not be ideal, since Ukraine has recently embarked on the development of democratic standards. For the first time, local elections were held separately from elections to parliament, following new legislation. It was difficult to avoid, but in general, many international observers stressed that the elections had gone transparently and democratically. In Ukraine now, no one hides the fact that work on improving electoral legislation should and will continue. And in that, the authority that raised this problem raised itself and suggested ways to solve it. Immediately after the vote in the local elections, President Janukovic created a working group to improve the legislation on elections. All laws relating to election procedures will be drafted into a single electoral code. Ukraine needs modern, stable legislation that we can use for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, the opposition did not live up to the expectation that the region's ratings would inevitably drop after six months in power. The elections proved that the Party of Regions today is the majority of the country. Even in areas where the voters have consistently supported Timoshenko over the past five years, our party, the Party of the Regions, has shown high results. This is a natural result of successful regional policy. I think these results have economic, human and psychological implications. It should be noted that recent elections to local authorities are extremely important in terms of the economy. In addition to the consolidation of central power in vertical terms, they have completed the formation of a sovereign horizontal for economic reforms. We have a President-elected, there is a government, there is a majority in the Supreme Council, and for economic reforms to reach every Ukrainian, there is not enough key link – the local government. The party of regions has received a convincing majority, and now we will continue to modernize the country and improve the standard of living of Ukrainians, to live up to our pre-election promises. Today, with the recovery of the economy, the country began to regenerate. And I am confident that inflation will be reduced in the next five years because of the actions of the Ukrainian government, and price stability will be established in Ukraine. For this, there are all the prerequisites, based on the anticrisis measures taken by the Ukrainian authorities. And the Party of Regions extends its hand of friendship to all political forces for the benefit of cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u212	Thank you. The fences, please. Get ready for dinner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u213	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear friends! I have repeatedly, including from the Supreme Council's rostrum, raised a very important problem that I want to stress once again today. For me, as a national deputy who was enthroned in Kiev, the people of the houses on the street of General Rodimtsev, 15th and 17th, who are in the Bolosiiv district of Kiev. So it happened that my previous appeal to the city’s authorities, under the previous leadership, did not find a proper response. The point is that the slopes on which the buildings are located are actively washed with liquefied surface water, sometimes flooded with fecal water, and many other things that lead to these problems, including problems that call into question the existence of these dwellings in general. This leads to destruction and instigation, endangering the integrity of the buildings, in the event of failure to take action to restore the drainage system in the area. As determined in the corresponding letters from Kiev’s authorities, this is within the jurisdiction of the Volossius District Office. Clearly, there is no administration in Kiev now that there is a change of leadership. Sadly, though, our citizens cannot wait. I received an answer that said that when these houses were destroyed, they would be repaired. Such a position is generally pathological, for it is clear that it is cheaper to warn sad processes than to rebuild houses after they have been destroyed. Moreover, this is a threat to the lives of our citizens, to the lives of our constituents, and I absolutely cannot accept it. In the absence of housing integrity, residents of the city, a prosperous territory, and district officials are discrediting authority in the eyes of citizens. In view of the above, I again appeal to the Glossiev District Administration, and I also hope for the control of the city authorities, the new city authorities of Kiev, that urgent measures should be taken to prevent the destruction of residential buildings on the street of General Rodimtsev, 15/A and 17. To order and punish all those officials who do not care about our citizens who are dealing with some of their own questionable interests and who do not care about those who have finally set them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u214	Thank you. Volodymyr's dinner, please. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u215	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine, the last day of the sessional week has been as fruitful as it has been all week. There have been many changes in the country and the Tax Code has been adopted in our Hall. And today we have adopted amendments, confirmed the Constitutional Court's decision that deputies should be elected for a term of up to five years. For a term of five years. Two days ago, there were a large number of contestants outside the Supreme Council, all demanding the abolition of the Tax Code, small and medium-sized businesses. So no one really explained to them what this tax code contained? So I would like to remind you that small business and medium-sized businesses will be guaranteed from attacks by the tax inspection, from attacks by the tax police. Both the tax police and the tax inspection may, if there are claims against the entrepreneur, apply only through the court. That's the first one. And the second. I want to say that in the course of the 20 years, respected, our country lives without a single law. There's no law like the Tax Code. Our country lives on provisional rules and changes all the time. You will look at the countries of the European community where there is a Tax Code and everyone pays taxes. Yeah, warrants pay off. Because there are pensioners, doctors, teachers, the Army Armed Forces, if we don't pay taxes, there will be no money in the budget, which will therefore affect small salaries, small pensions and the armed forces will not have enough money. I therefore believe that we must, although painfully adopt the Tax Code, and in general, and live under the Tax Code, pay taxes to make it better for the citizens of our country, not for certain business groups and deputies. Therefore, it is necessary to explain correctly to small and medium-sized businesses that taxes must be paid, that everyone has parents and children who must live and develop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u216	John the Rabbit, prepare Shishkini.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u217	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies, President Viktor Yanukovich's decree has been removed from the title of Taras Shevchenk's National Award, a point according to which the award can be awarded for works that highlight the topic of the Holodomor in 1932-1933. Such a decision is deeply symbolic and requires our principled assessment. The decree indicates that President Janukovic continues to implement the policy of rematch, which envisions the liquidation of the current governing authority of the most important achievements that have been endorsed by the national type of Ukrainian state and the spiritual revival of the Ukrainian nation. This refers not only to the achievements of the Yushchenka presidency but also to the presidency of Kuchma and Kravczuk. The ruling regime purposefully draws the Ukrainian society back, restoring the Communist ideology in Ukraine, which leaves no room for Ukrainians as a nation, tradition, and customs as the foundation of statehood. This decision by President Yanukovic shows that President Yanukovic and the ruling authorities in general not only want to break free from dependence on Moscow, but continue to play the role of Kremlin policy in Ukraine, the essence of which is to maximize the weakening of Ukraine, but ultimately to eliminate the state. The appearance of such a decision just before the days following the respect of the victims of the 1932-1933 famine is nothing more than a bold abuse of the memory of millions innocently murdered by the Communist regime and the unguilty challenge of the entire Ukrainian public. Such decisions show that the governing authority has no intention of listening to public opinion and is failing to comply with current legislation: yesterday they did not listen to the opinion of entrepreneurs; today they are violating the rights in the cultural sphere. Politicians and the public should be able to obtain from the President the restoration of the Taras Shevchenk National Award. The restoration of the paragraph would mean that the ruling authorities, including President Yanukovic, have reviewed their anti - Ukrainian stand and are ready to fulfill their moral and political duty to the victims of the famine. If everything remains as it is, it will only encourage authority to continue anti-Ukrainian activities and to ignore the Constitution to remove many other events, such as the national-liberal movement from public recognition of respect. Patriotic forces have to stand firm for the rights of the Ukrainian nation and we will do so. Here's another example that shows this kind of government policy. The government has decided to evict a number of museums from Kiev-Pecher Lavra. This National Museum of Decorative Art, the Museum of Books and Printing, the Museum of Theatre, Music and Film and the National Museum of National Architecture and Life. And that's been going on for a couple of weeks. What does this talk about? This suggests that this authority will deliberately undermine the historical roots of the Ukrainian nation, which we must not agree to under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u218	Thank you. Shishkina, please. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u219	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, honors all those who look and see, listen and hear. On November 22, we're going to celebrate the 6th anniversary of Maidan. It's been six years, and it feels like yesterday. The impression that yesterday hundreds of thousands of people went to Midan for their dreams, their beliefs, and their future. Six years after Maidan, as participants in those events, I have to hear more and more that Midan -- it turns out to be a fake, that it was sort of a polytechnological thing to knock the heads of the bastards out that Maidan was a terrible disappointment. Some even punish themselves for their choice then. That's the stupidest and stupidest thing I've ever heard! So I want to answer all those who are now pouring dirt on our heads. On the heads of all those who stood, first of all, behind themselves. Who stood against the actions of the criminal authorities of that time. And against all that the system then imposed upon us. Who stood against her and for himself. What can be called false and technology all those emotions, feelings, feelings, deep feelings that were true when your heart felt no fear, when you were standing next to people you first saw in your life, and you were holding hands with each other, stopping a column of militia cars driving into the back of Maidan. When you bring in a stranger’s tent town so that they can eat, sleep, wash, and rest properly. When you go to Midan and you meet a drunken company of your opponents. What can be called a false and technological harmony in conjunction with the universe with each of the audiences that you feel standing next to strangers to you? When you are united by one thing -- faith in yourself, courage to stand up for your future, and from here on out -- the power of the spirit and the real one is insurmountable to nothing and nothing but eternal and present power in each one of us. No matter how much we stood on the field at the time, we were united in one thing — faith in ourselves, hope in ourselves, and love for one another. I don’t remember any of these weeks when someone or word or action insulted or humiliated a neighbor. The incredible force of connection, the feeling of each other, solidarity and faith, we were the only ones. I no longer remember the light of my life. I didn't feel anything like the field or after it. And if I had a choice, I'd go out on the other side, and I'd rise again for my future and my dreams and my beliefs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u220	Pavlovsky, please follow him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u221	Andrey Pavlovski, “Fatherland” Party. Respectable compatriots! You and I have once again witnessed the cynicalness of today’s authorities, especially the tales of Azarova, Tihypca, that retirement age will not rise. But in the days that followed, a new memo was published from the IMF, where it was clearly black in white, saying that by the beginning of January next year it would be an increase. They gave up the entire social sphere. There will be an increase in the retirement age not only for women but also for military personnel. And since April, 50 percent of the price of gas and utilities has been rising again. The salaries of budgeters and military personnel, including militialors, are frozen. I want to talk to the law enforcement. Is it worth your while and this anti-national authority to protect you, to beat peaceful demonstrations to run? Think about it, because your salary will be frozen for six years. And no wonder the authorities accept the humane tax code. It will extend the Labour Code, which will turn our fellow countrymen into hired slaves: 12 hours of work, a week of work from 40 to 48 hours. No wonder it's happening. Because now the authority of the Party of Regions, the monopoly of the great oligarchic capital, is their ten families controlling 90 percent of the economy, and the vast majority of Ukraine according to UN data on the poverty line. Recent international experts have found Ukraine and its citizens to be the poorest in Ukraine. For comparison. Today, the salary in Ukraine is $280 a month. At the same time, our neighbours in Poland -- $1,300 per month, and in the Czech Republic -- 1,400, in Lithuania -- over 900, in Russia, in Moldova -- already 600. This resulted from an unjust distribution of income, a violent injustice. And, honourable citizens, on the 22nd of November on the anniversary of Maidan at 10 a.m. at the President's Office building on Bank Street, we are going to demand Yanukovic to veto, not to sign the humane laws of the Tax Code and other laws that humiliate our citizens, destroy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u222	Please, Yavorowski. Yes, I can't see the Queen. Bodnar to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u223	Dear voters, Vladimir Yavorowski. “Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. Of course, after these elections, it was not difficult to guess that Janukovich’s team would try, would have to do so, would have to impose on all of Ukraine the model of human management and the transformation of human beings into herds, as was the case with Donetsk. Almost everyone guessed, but the fact that it would be done so cynically, so rudely and so quickly could hardly have been predicted. Today, we could also talk in detail about the situation that Ukraine no longer needs. It can be dissolved. Security doesn't have to do the same. Militia's probably the same way. All of these functions will be performed today, the taxpayers will perform and successfully replace all of them. What the Constitution has been transformed into, the Ukrainian Constitution has been turned into a whore from the county road of Kiev, it's just as obvious. The fact that by adopting this tax law, it seems, a new law, and in fact a retrograde law, has actually turned Ukraine into an extreme state in which the middle class will be destroyed today. And because of that, every button that was pressed here, it was, it was a hat that shot in the middle of the Ukrainian class. Without the middle class, there will be no state, there will be no democracy. We have two classes left. It is a lumpanized, enraged nation and a small group of oligarchs, among whom there will be tremendous hostility that is not known what may come to an end. Because of this, of course, Ukraine has entered into some huge pessimism today and social. But in the second part of my brief speech, I would like to give our Ukrainian society some positive signals. That we're still alive, that we're still alive, that we're working. Because of this, the first thing that happened yesterday was on the streets of Kiev. This is what happened in many cities and, above all, in the same Donetsk, when we thought that the people had gone out of their way and that they already had absolutely no faith in anyone. And when thousands of people went out on Kiev streets, I walked among them, I talked to them, their eyes today, they're the eyes of the new Ukrainian revolutionaries. And they talked about it all the time, they needed a revolution. I even had to hold them back. But that's a very good thing. And I want to say on behalf of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" to you, the middle class. We support you. We'll always be with you. You're not going to be a country without you. Another positive moment. This is what the committee, which I have the honour to lead, has considered the Law on Languages. A criminal absolute law, a provocative law passed by Simonenck, introduced by Ephraim and introduced by the Greenewite. We've got the conclusions of everyone, literally everyone, without the exception of those institutions that have expert powers. This law is declared unconstitutional; it is contrary not only to the 10 articles of the Constitution but to all the articles of the Constitution where.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u224	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u225	write down people's rights. So be calm, I say again, today, in fact, all the thinking Ukraine has taken a stand against this law, although that doesn't mean that they can be brought here, and Michael Chechchev's hand can go up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u226	Please, Olga Bodnar. Six minutes, Sass is handing it over. Let's get Lapinius ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u227	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, "BUT - Fatherland", Parenthood Party. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, Honourable Ukrainian People! I want to tell you about two topics that, unfortunately, are not yet in this room, the desire of the majority that governs our authority today. First. This is about me passing a bill on the Internet. The bill I submitted has been designed to respond to the challenges and threats that have recently arisen in the field of electronic media. Today, we can hear more and more complaints from journalists about attempts by authorities to censor information posted by the Internet. Thus, when mass media pressure began, it was necessary to protect the state’s information space by law. The situation he is in today allows the authorities to selectively and subjectively determine what illegal information filling is. In fact, imperfect legislation makes it possible to restrict access to any information in the Internet, which is essentially censorship and is prohibited by article 15 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The implementation of censorship can become even more real after the approval of the Supreme Council as a whole of the draft Act amending article 31 on television and radio broadcasting, by which the Cabinet of Ministers is entitled to approve the methodology for the calculation of the size of the licensing assembly for the issuance of language licences, the licensee's licenses, software services and the determination of the amount of pay for the reshaping of licences and the issuance of a duplicate language license. According to the available information, Kabmin has already prepared an appropriate draft of such a methodology, which provides for the licensing of online speaking. This is very convenient for the present government, because the Internet has a large audience and development prospects. There is no doubt that licensing will be used for the purpose of introducing political censorship, first and foremost, and for covering up the possibility of any criticism of power by both the opposition and the Internet users. In addition, the introduction of the license will also allow the government to collect additional funds from the owners of the internet resources, but don't think they'll go to cover the gaps in the budget. I think it'll be extra rest for the oligarchs. With the development of global information technologies in Ukrainian space, it was possible to disseminate any information via the Internet without using individual channels, frequencies, broadcasts or television networks. The proposed bill is aimed at prohibiting licensing and censoring information distributed online. At the same time, with the aim of not allowing for information on the Internet, the project proposes amendments to the Telecommunications Act that clearly determine what the owner of the resource may be responsible for, namely, disseminating information containing child pornography, endangering the interests of national security, territorial integrity or public order, public health, reputation or the rights of others, and copyright and related rights. This is, by the way, article 34 of the Constitution. A recent example that has taken place in Lugansk shows that the bill is superfluous. I'm talking about that court decision in Lugansk that allowed a Russian citizen to flee beyond Ukraine after he posted child pornography on the Internet. The questions I have raised are now up - to - date. The introduction of Internet censorship is a pink dream of this power, because society will be cut off from the ability to obtain objective information, to communicate and to unite what is most feared by the authorities. And the next thing I wanted to tell you. You know, September 1st, when I registered this decision, which I want to say, there's no time, no desire, no opportunity in this room to look at it. My decision, which relates to curbing the rate of rising prices for food, puts the last one on Wednesday and is no longer being considered. It's been three months. Every person who listens and sees me in his own wallet feels the results of the work of authority in the direction of improving life now. I mean, it's unprecedented in recent years that prices are rising now. Prices don't just go up every day, they go up from morning to evening. The situation with the same Greek expression is particularly striking. After the President's promise to settle this issue in a day, for over a month now, the Greeks have practically disappeared or grown to a price. Almost 20 bucks. The lack of an adequate response by the authorities to these processes in the face of a steady increase in debt and wages, an unjustified increase in municipal tariffs, is essentially a genocide in relation to their own people. I can't understand why this room supports what we're doing right now. What the present authority is doing with this nation, which is actually feeding it. Therefore, the distinguished Ukrainian people, 22 numbers, on Monday at 10 a.m. in the Bank, near the President's Administration, all those who care about their future will be able to express their protest to the current government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u228	Xenia Leapina, please. Get ready for Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u229	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear voters and respected citizens of Ukraine! Two important historical dates await us. One is the mention of the victims of Holodomor, the year of Holodomor, 33rd. And the second light is the 6th anniversary of the Orange Revolution, the official day of freedom. Surprisingly, both of these dates are historical in connection with what is happening now. And I can do an analogy with the tax code that was approved yesterday and its consequences. Why the Hunger? Because Ukrainian agriculture was the bearer of Ukrainian nationality and the desire for freedom of the Ukrainians. Therefore, the Soviet authorities needed a means of exterminating and intimidating Ukrainian agriculture as a means of stripping away their last pieces of property in order to strangle their desire for freedom. The analogy is direct. Today, the Tax Code, which has been approved, has all the tools and opportunities to take away the last property in a small enterprise that today bears the Ukrainian people’s desire for freedom. And this analogy, unfortunately, is very sad, because in the 20th century, it looks as far away from the principles of humanism and mind as possible. But there is a second analogy to why the Orange Revolution began: because the authorities brutally violated all the fundamentals of law and brutalized all freedoms, including election rights and electoral freedoms of citizens. And the Orange Revolution was, first and foremost, a citizen's reaction and struggle for his rights and freedoms. And I'm convinced that this fight is going on today, and it's going on with entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs do not agree to lay down their hands, and agree that they will take away their last property and last chance to get on their feet, earn their own money, and their family, and other citizens for life. They are willing to rise up and fight for their rights. What is happening today? In Hmelnicka, after a great campaign, repression began. Today I learned that predators are trying to put themselves in prison, and the methods that we have long forgotten. Mrs. Kovalska Tetjana, an activist of the entrepreneurial movement, is now held accountable, drugged. We've forgotten about that since the '90s. Such methods are the methods of the police state. We will protect her and other activists, both through legal aid and through collective action. But I want to finish this speech, a sad performance, but on a positive note. I'm sure the fight isn't over. And it won't end on the 22nd or the following dates. It will continue in various forms and formats: both to the President, and to the President's demands, and other actions, constitutional actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u230	Thank you. Please, Prokopchuk. Lukyanov and then Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u231	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party of Fatherland. Dear Ukrainian people, honourable voters, dear countrymen of the Plains, despite what has taken place today, on another occasion through its tract constitution, the extension of the powers of the Supreme Council and other institutions, I want to return everyone to those elections that have been held in a kind of fair and transparent manner, as stated by President Janukovic as a guarantor. What was really going on, especially in Equinox? The crazed administrative pressure on all candidates who were not representatives of the party of power; the uncontrolled printing of ballot papers on various printeries that had absolutely no licenses and rights to print high-security documents; the lack of information on the candidates of the ballot papers; I demonstrate one of them that once again distorted the choice; the illegal withdrawals from the registration of opposition candidates; the copying of the results of the election with the change of numbers on the side of the Party of Regions, regardless of the parallel voter count. Thus, the system forgeries for the Party of the Regions were organized by Mr. Yatsuk, Secretary of the Plain District Commission, who had unwarrantedly arranged for the opening of the protocols in the field. in District 35, where the same number was recruited by the Fatherland and the Party of the Regions, and instead of direct action by the law, article 78, unjustifiably organized an illegal vote count. Again, there is no violation, no interference by members of the district commissions. Of course, a further census, which was conducted illegally, included ballots that were declared invalid in behalf of a member of the Party of the Regions. The falsification of the follow-up to the census report, the obstacles to obtaining court rulings, separate protocol decisions, led to the unlawfully recognized representative of the Party of the Regions. In fact, the entire electoral process in the Plains region went under the tract of electoral legislation by Mr. Yatsuk: the law is me. I am addressing the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, to investigate all the power structures on Mr. Yatsuk's illegal actions and to bring him to criminal liability under the current legislation. I also urge all conscious citizens to come to Midan and Bank on November 22 and express their attitude toward today’s authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u232	Please, Lukyanov, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u233	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, after listening to a few speeches and comparing the real situation with what was happening and is changing in the country right now, I'd like to inform you about some things. Well, first of all, I find it very unpleasant when today's opposition changes its face from one to another, forgetting the things and the documents they signed yesterday and the commitments they made to Ukraine. I want to inform you about the gas supply agreement for the Ukrainian State, when the last team made a commitment to Ukraine to supply gas at the base price, think about this figure, $450 per thousand cubic metres of gas. It's on the border of the Ukrainian state, it's not taking into account transportation costs, it's not taking into account any taxes and congregations, that's the initial price from which Ukraine starts to negotiate with Russia on the supply of gas to the state. Thereafter, a number of other agreements were signed that impose additional obligations on the Ukrainian authorities. These are, first, commitments to the International Monetary Fund and signed corresponding memorandums. What are these memos about and who signed them? If I take this memo now, and look at it: here is the signature of the Prime Minister, Mrs Timoshenko, President Yushchenk, Acting Minister of Finance, Mr. Umanski, and Head of the National Bank of Stelmacha. In these documents, Ukraine commits itself, and it says that we are under an obligation to raise the cost of energy, the gas, we are under an obligation to increase the payment of utilities, we are under an obligation to freeze the increase in pension benefits and to stop the indexation. [[This is a document signed by Mrs. Timoshenko.]] All these things are already hanging on to the Ukrainian state. And it is very difficult to move away from those liabilities, from those debts that the Ukrainian State now has to repay to the borrowers, which the Ukrainian State now has to deal with in some way with the arrangements and commitments that the Ukrainian State has to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u234	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u235	I'd like to say that there's a different position, there's a different approach, there's another way out of this situation. There is an opportunity, indeed, to build a new state, a state for people and for citizens, not for politicians today who say one thing, and yesterday they destroyed and destroyed this state, and they all forgot about it today. I hope the citizens remember and remember that. And I'll remind those politicians who think that people don't understand or remember anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u236	Thank you. Please, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u237	Respectable voters, respected TV and radio audiences, respected Adam Ivanovich! I wanted to take a brief look at the position taken in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code in the second reading of our faction. You know that it was virtually impossible to live largely on the legislative basis that was before the adoption of the Code, as tax legislation was governed by 134 regulations, laws and 255 instructions at the level of Minfin, fiscal and other monitoring bodies. Therefore, the Code had to be adopted in a large way, and not all objections to the so-called “orange” and “whitehearted” opposition had one answer. So you had everything in your hands, there was a President, there was a Prime Minister, there was a majority in Parliament, and no one prevented you from adopting a quality code over the years, whether Katerenczuk, Terehina, Carmazin, Leapina and others. Therefore, this code is not ideal, but we must all be grateful for the position of Peter Simonenck, who you remember in the first version of the Code of Taxation, which was indeed practically Gestapo, raised the question in the Cabinet of Ministers, raised the question before the President about the responsibility of those who developed the first version. It turns out that this option was followed by Tigipko's ears, and you know, at the insistence of the faction and the leader, he was removed from the work on this code. Today, the committees, many entrepreneurs, are more likely to see even the opposition as a better quality of the code. However, it is not ideal, and I would therefore like to highlight some of the points that I would like to draw the attention of both the President and Minfin, and the tax document in the finalization of the Code is not a single document in the finalization and modification of the Code. First, the Code left the principle of the so-called invasion, i.e. once again the presumption of the employer's innocence was violated, taxpayers were being fined at first today, and then court decisions were pending. The second, unfortunately, remained in this option and the principle of the so-called knocker. That is, a documentary check can be carried out on the basis of anonymous information received on tax evasion. But who is there today preventing Maria Ivanovne from calling her neighbor in the next-door tax office and directing this check? Thirdly, it is a principle of dominance, of course 3.5 times the rights of supervisors today than that of taxpayers, and to pay attention to that too. We also ask that attention be drawn to the question of the so-called Customs Miracle, when we still have the basic tax on imports of goods into Ukrainian customs territory, contractual, that is, contract value, but not less than invented by Ukrainian officials. You know, you've found a very important point that, in drafting the second version of this code, some Minfins have taken the basis of an English economist, Kanes, who, in his work, claimed that the market mechanism itself could not make full use of society's resources, so we see that public capitalism is being built on a large scale, with very small numbers of clans. But once again, I urge today's Cabinet of Ministers and the President to think that if we are 6 million citizens and 4 million simplifications, we will throw out of our jobs today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u238	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u239	This will only, of course, exacerbate the situation in our country and, unfortunately, not be able to guarantee this first place today. And in general, a stable workplace, as well as wages, can then be poured into the streets in huge protests. I therefore request that these errors and the Cabinet of Ministers and the President be taken into account in the drafting of a better version of the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-19-m0.u240	Thank you. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the constituencies. The next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, November 30, at 10 a.m.
