ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:00:50]] There are 324 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. We are continuing the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today is the day of the birth of the Ukrainian National Deputies of Kojara Leonid Alexanderovich and Potapova Vasil Ivanovich Let us welcome our colleagues, to their good wishes, to their success. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Dear colleagues, two factions have come in: the factions of the “Julia Timoshenko” and the faction of the “Lithuania Block” on the announcement of the break. Do you want me to make a statement? In order to make a joint statement from the two factions of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and “Litvina Block” the statement is made by the head of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” of the People's Deputy Kožemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u2	Dear voters! Statement “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. The “Julia Timoshenko” faction in the Supreme Council initiated an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council on 14 January to work together to find ways to improve the electoral process, to remove the problematic moments of electoral legislation. We have initiated this one-off session with a single question: the introduction and adoption of a bill on amendments to the Presidential Elections Act. However, all of us, the entire Ukrainian society, have witnessed the brutal farce that is being played today by the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council. The Party of Regions and its representative, chairman of the meetings, Alexander Lavrinovich, are today demonstrating to the whole of Ukraine, to the whole of society how they will conduct the election of the President of Ukraine. Instead, the Party of Regions has organized a race that will first convene a Parliamentary meeting, has filled the agenda of the day's emergency session with secondary issues, and is now trying to prevent the necessary changes from taking place before the President's election. An example of what is already under way in preparation for mass electoral counterfeiting is the situation in some areas. This is in Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsky, Kharkiv, Odessa, where more than 12 percent of voters who want to vote at home are now registered. That's why the BUT faction required a vote to determine the order of the day and the first question to be considered by the President's Election Bill, which had already received a positive conclusion from the PSC and the Scientific and Scientific Administration. [[No. 5509]] Dear voters! If the first question is not given to Bill No. 5509, the Bill No. 5509, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, will not participate in the brutal and cynical farce organized by the Party of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, since I have been approached, I do. In accordance with the Rules, I have the right to reply to you that what the chairman is demonstrating demonstrates compliance with the rules of the Rules, the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. And with regard to the preparation for falsification, I would like to make clear the official data of the Central Electoral Commission. I got a special question yesterday, and I can tell you by the district numbers in different areas, the number of applications that came in doesn't exceed one and a half percent. This is to make it clear how true this information is. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 209 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is under review. [[about the use of funds]] Bevanenko Valerij Fedorovich, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, reports. National MP Ribukh Sergey Mikolaiovich reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u4	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting, discussed the bills that have been introduced to clarify the drafting of part two of article 209 of the Ukrainian Code of Land on the use of funds that come in order to compensate for the loss of agricultural and forestry production, which, of course, should be used for the purposes of land development and protection, by improving the understanding that, for Ukraine today, it is extremely important. Bill No. 3231 also proposes to use these funds to carry out land inventory, which will contribute to the identification of land and facilities that are subject to development, protection and improvement. With regard to the project registered under number 4379, its adoption in the proposed edition, namely, the allocation of these funds to produce land planning schemes, urban documentation and monetary valuation, does not correspond to the general concept of part two of article 209 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt Bill 3231 and Bill 4379 to submit for further work. In view of what we have put forward, we support the proposals of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy, and we invite the Supreme Council to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law under number 3231, which I repeat to the People's Deputy Lukyanchuk. I want to point out that, as we all know, the very soils of Ukraine are marred by the brutal violation of the structure of the seismic system, by the overwhelming of oil crops, sunflowers, monocultures, like grain, the complete decline of animal life as such no longer exists, and so there is no organic fertilizer. What's more, in the budget last year, and the budget that we don't have at all, the government has released, as it were, these issues, the most important issues in terms of soil fertility, soil protection, their monetary valuation, land cadastre, and all other issues. So in this case, we support the proposals made by Lukyanchuk, a member of the BUT and the coalition. But if these proposals are so much that we support them, and the faction of the Party of Regions also fully supports and let's give the land assessment costs, to improve the land, and we'll have it in order. Then there will be no politics and no land relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u5	Let's sign up for a question to the reporter. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I share your concern with many of the issues that have been raised, but I believe that the most painful issue for the Ukrainians today is the President's veto to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. And I would understand the Party of Regions if today's first question was about this one, and the second question was about change to the electoral law. We're kind of going around this question so quietly. What have we decided to support the President in selling the land or what? How do you figure that out, please tell me? Because this manny ending that we're looking at right now, you know, it doesn't solve the global issues that we're facing. Although I support adoption and these changes, even though they are not systemic, you understand. What we're going to do about the moratorium. It's all got to be dropped and now it's a vote, everybody's called. And I'll call you back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. But what in this case is the Party of Regions, the faction of the Party of Regions? You made it, coalition. And the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations supported what I'm reporting to A as a national deputy and deputy head and member of the Party of Regions, saying that those changes, they're just, we support them. Moreover, the faction of the Party of Regions insists that we accept the Earth cadastre. We're definitely against it until there's an aerial shot, a peak doesn't determine the boundaries of each area, there's no playing or fooling people, there's no paper in the form of land ownership documents. I agree with you. Then let's ask these questions, we'll support them, and we'll be initiators with you. And the veto is definitely overrun, because until a peasant can buy a land plot from a peasant and we have a land bank, which land market can we all ask? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, let's go. You're a coalition. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no coalition? Well, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u8	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich, sit down, please. Report on Project 4379. Father Alexander Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u9	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, the author of this bill is Alexander Popov, Valérie Baranov, and Yuri Serbin. We work on a committee, and our proposal came out of the practical work that we see in local self-government and in our committee. What is the difference between Bill 4379 and the previous? The first part of our proposal coincides with what was just said in Project 3231. But we suggest adding an amendment that reads: “The production of land planning schemes and city - based land valuation documentation. Why is this necessary? The point is, in our country, we have numerous investment projects that are being built on or adjacent to cities. For example, the city of Komsomolska Dmitrovska Rural Council, whose land is part of the Komsomol City Council, we have a situation where an investor, by implementing two major investment projects in the mining and metallurgical industries, pays compensation for the transfer of land into another assignment, i.e. the business assignment, to local budgets. And the restrictions on the use of these funds, because the law defines their purpose, this is to improve the economy, it does not allow this resource to be used to develop a master plan for the development of the territory, because the implementation of such large investment projects certainly requires both housing planning and engineering infrastructure development and so on. Moreover, the question arises: What will be the value of a tax on earth? After all, the use of business certainly increases the cost of this land from the point of view of taxation. So this proposal, it is today, which is really a practice, and we think it needs to be supported. But on the other hand, since the committee has decided to support the previous bill, we are proposing, in fact, to support the previous bill, because it is different from ours only because we need to add several directions to use, to make further use of these taxes. And so in preparing the bill for second reading, we can with the committee, I think, settle this issue, including taking into account our proposal. So I propose, indeed, to vote in favour of the previous bill, and on second reading we will come up with a common thought and two committees of committees and authors of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u10	Question, please, to the reporter. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u11	Yuri Carmazin. I have this question for you, please tell me, this bill of yours was filed in a year and a little more than the previous one. How it counts there is an alternative to the question to those who have accepted it, I don't know how it would work, I wouldn't have it, somehow you, in the Districts, it works. But I have another question. Do you not think that the Ukrainian Code of Land should be amended in a comprehensive way, not just by 209th, and not only in this part right now, but we need to make complex changes, but society needs to answer today's questions about what to do with the agricultural land market. And now we've opened up from the first number, we've started the countdown, we've already started the ladder, we've started the second question of how legitimate it is, this ladder of land for agricultural purposes. What do you think, because those legislators don't hold back?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u12	I've worked for a long time in local government, and I've had this impression when we start to process things in a comprehensive way, to change one law that works on another, and in practice we get a law that's worse than the one that was before. That's why we're actually doing this. So, I think you're essentially asking the right question, but here's the fear that we might get a worse option than we used to be. Therefore, making such amendments in terms of real practice is also an option, so at this point it would be appropriate to accept this. But if we can actually prepare seriously, there are many codes in the Supreme Council today that we are considering and, unfortunately, have a conflict with their adoption. Therefore, in principle, you are right, but today, given all the circumstances, I think that the right decision is now to make a change to the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u13	Slata Victor Andriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u14	I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u15	We've already received an answer. Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich from the site, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u16	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know, I took the floor not to discuss this bill, because frankly, it's a serious matter. But I don't see the point of discussing this bill, because there are 38 people's deputies in this room. And even if you consider the shameful practice of voting for yourself and for that guy, he won't be voted in a positive way. So it seems to me that what's been done with the arrangement, I'll call it so, this off-limits meeting, it's led to a certain extent that even nice bills, unfortunately, if not today, including this one, voted, they will be regarded as rejected and we God knows to them when we can go back. I think we're actually doing a lot of imitation work right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u17	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, distinguished voters, I fully support Zarubinsky's colleague in that of course it is very shameful and shameful that the whole BUT faction has left the Parliamentary Hall. Even though thousands of people have come to Kiev to claim their entitlement to pensions, wages under the law adopted at the initiative of Viktor Fedorović Yanuković, but do not contribute, the Government of Timoshenko does not budget, the budget is not considered, people are not even allowed and beaten in the Cabinet of Ministers who defend their right to receive social benefits that protect them in times of crisis. As far as the bill is concerned. Today we are considering two alternative bills on the bottom and the same subject. As part of Popov’s bill, the bill proposes to expand the range of targeted use of funds in order to compensate for the loss of agricultural and forestry production. The project envisages the use of these funds not only for the development and protection of these lands and the improvement of appropriate arrangements, as provided for in the important part of article 209 of the Ukrainian law, but also for the implementation of the land structure, the production of schematics, the planning of territories, urban documentation, and the monetary valuation of land. In view of the fact that the two bills were considered on a profiling committee, it was decided that the bill should be adopted on the basis of a bill by Bebezenka, and Colleague Popov agreed. [[and Bill of the People's Deputy from the Bevanka Region Party, and Bill from the Party of Regions of Popova]] So I also propose to adopt Bill Bebzenka 3231 as a basis, and in the process of redrafting the second reading, individual positions can be introduced in the procedure for second reading, thus improving the bill in the final version, and adopting it in the final version in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u19	Thank you, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Is there a need in the concluding word in the interviewees? Yes. Please, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribhuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Before the vote, I would like to draw your attention to the fair questions and to my colleague Yuri Karmazin, that we are indeed, in relation to the Earth Code, 25 amendments have been made at this session by the people's deputies, all of which are of the kind of delicate, private or lobbyistic nature that you want, but they do not solve the problem in the complex. So what we're discussing today is also an important question, but it's one of the thousand issues that we need to discuss, and we need to take the basis, and then we're going to deal with systemic land relations in general. Because I have to say in the closing word, the land reform, whichever is inconvenient, has stopped and brought great distress to the Ukrainian people and to our land itself, especially fertility. Today, lattifundists have 50, 100, 150,000 hectares in land rentals, and they use it poorly, export half of the gross grain harvest, and I emphasize it is not exported, but exported at no cost. Neither the country budget, nor the country head, nor the villagers, nor the district budget have any copies of it. And we have 60 percent of the soil involved under the monoculture of the grain. And we also have some boasting that they are exporting grain: both the Prime Minister and the President. What is there to boast about? There's trouble. If we give up 10 percent for the value of a gross global trade union. So that's what I'm saying about land relations. If rented, it must be honest, decent so that they cannot hide the crops and not exploit the land. So I call, let's vote for this amendment, it's so much because it relates to land assessment, land payments, and these costs go right to the ground, not to the last fertility. So in the next session, taking into account today's discussion, let's look at all of the problems of the Earth cadastre, the Earth Code, and not consider any more of the kind of laws that detail the issue until we essentially solve the fundamental laws of the earth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u21	Please, Father Alexander Pavlovich, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u22	Thank you, I think there is one more problem that will be solved by this bill, and no matter which one will be adopted. This is a problem that has arisen, but it's very recent and it's connected to it. If compensation for the use of the agricultural sector had previously been listed by municipalities in commercial banks and had been deposited because it was not appropriate to use them to the extent necessary for the purposes provided for by law today, and thus at least some money was received by municipalities to address these problems, which we now want to resolve by law. After the Cabinet of Ministers had issued a decree and all accounts from commercial banks from local budgets had been transferred to the Treasury, there was a situation that now, even now, these millions of municipalities had gone away, in this case in November-December last year, and it would be obvious that this would continue to cover the government budget deficit, in other words they simply kept them in place. I am therefore convinced that this project must be finalized and adopted in a short time. I ask you to support the Supreme Council as one of our proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-14-m0.u23	Two draft laws have been finalized. Dear colleagues, there are now 221 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot now adopt decisions. You and I have witnessed how one political power has tried to use the Supreme Council as an instrument of political struggle in the electoral campaign with the convening of successive plenary meetings. So we see the result that this political power has achieved. I think the result is very eloquent, you don't have to try to use the country's higher representative bodies and the country's only legislative body in its narrow party interests. The legislative process must be treated with due respect and respect. In view of this situation, I would like to remind you that the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin on Tuesday at 10 a.m. on January 19. I now declare the plenary session closed.
