ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:00:25]] There are 274 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, right now according to the schedule of meetings, we have to start by considering a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the employment of citizens who own land, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[registration 4568]] A few minutes ago, I received a letter from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy asking me to postpone this bill. In view of the fact that we can do this only by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal made by the minister of employment to postpone the matter. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:01:36]] For-9 The decision is not taken, the bill is being considered. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the employment of citizens who own land is being announced for consideration. [[usage]] [[registration 4568]] Report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna. There is no minister. The report is a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, Pavlovski Andrija Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Committee on Social Policy and Work at its meeting on June 10, 2009, discussed Bill 4568 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the employment of citizens who have their own land use. The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on employment, on local self-government and on "On compulsory public social insurance in case of unemployment". In particular, changes have been proposed to improve the status of unemployed citizens, particularly those who have ownership of the land that was obtained as a result of landslides or the decision of the local government or the local executive body. The bill proposes to settle the issue of the realization of citizens' rights to employment, this category of citizens, and the provision of appropriate accounting. Information on this calculation is proposed by the bill to place local self - government authorities, such as the executive bodies of rural, rural and urban councils. Information should be transferred to employment services that should facilitate the employment of the citizens mentioned. The adoption of the proposed bill will enable the legal settlement of employment issues and the social protection of the citizens involved. I would like to point out that the provisions of the bill do not extend to citizens who are given land for the sole purpose of gardening, individual gardening, collective gardening, hay-hairing and grazing, as well as for the construction, maintenance of housing, farm buildings and garage and construction. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft law's first reading may be a basis for adoption. I would also like to point out that the Committee on Social Policy and Work at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft law on first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u3	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u4	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleague, we have been discussing this bill for the second year. Do you think that the solution you are offering is to solve the problem of unemployment in the countryside in fact or not? And should we still be tying questions to the size of what we've been saying, to the minimum of living, to these questions, should we not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u5	The aim of the bill is to improve the legislative solution to the issue of the realization of the rights of citizens who have, the employment of citizens who own land. And order the status of the unemployed in the event of a call to the employment services. This is the goal: to clarify these points by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u6	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Well, I think it's only a person who goes to the eshaft who could find courage in himself and go out to this rostrum with a similar bill and how positive it is to present it to all the people of Ukraine. Do you not know that there are virtually no young people in the village who have no one to work, that buildings are being destroyed, that no one can even occupy those houses and keep them in proper condition? Don't you know that there's a lot of money in the village right now that people are hiring for a penny for a lot of bread? Don't you know that? So you continue to lie to Yushchenka, you lay your shoulders on him to inform the entire Ukrainian people about the creation of five million jobs. Is this how you create jobs when there are virtually no jobs in the countryside? Say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u8	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u9	Please tell me, do you really think that this issue regulates the employment of the rural population?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u10	Well, dear colleague, first of all, calm down, let's calm down. And second of all, I would like to point out that I'm reporting on the assignment of a profile committee to which I'm a member, a listed question. Thirdly, there is a request from the relevant Ministry of Social Policy: to transpose this bill. Well, if the Supreme Council doesn't support this appeal, I'll report it to you as it is. And thirdly, the main purpose of this issue was to address the issue of legislative employment, which is to refer to the busy population of citizens who have land, and how to give unemployment status to such citizens if they apply to the public employment service. There's no politics here, and what's Yushchenko doing here? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u11	Ungurani Pavel Jakimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u12	Dear Andriy Mikhailovich, I think that, indeed, this law only establishes certain legislative norms on the question of rural employment. I fully share the concern of colleagues in this room who are concerned about having as few people as possible in the village as they can live with all the villagers. Indeed, this bill was discussed on our committee. We discussed it many times. He's finally supported. So I think this is just the beginning. Apparently, the ministry today would like to postpone it for further work. But if we're looking at it, I have the next question. It's very important who does the accounting, the counting of those who refer to the category of the law. So who, after this bill, is once again to stress that these aren't broken structures, and these are the ones who really understand the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u13	Thank you, colleague, for asking. Once again, I would like to point out that this bill deals legislatively with the question: who can be counted as employed by those citizens who own land in private, and the other how to grant them unemployment status if they are asked to do so. And the third. It deals with the billing of such citizens, and it is determined that it is up to rural, rural, city councils to provide relevant information to the public employment service so that they can make appropriate decisions to assist citizens in providing them with employment. I don't know, why is there a confrontation in the hall, maybe there's some misunderstanding? Certain legislative rules governing the employment of these citizens are being regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u14	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u15	Dear reporter, given how you report this law, I think it will be met with the same fate as yesterday's Law 4566 on Personal Agriculture. [[government]] The first is that the subject of the legislative initiative, for himself, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not the Ministry, and the report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not the Ministry. And most importantly, you said that this whole census of citizens who fall under this law would be the executive bodies of the village councils. You're actually the last time you were in the village, please tell me, as a reporter, specifically, the executive body of the village council. Figure out who's in charge, who's in charge?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u16	On the village council, the head of the village will keep an account. In the village councils there is also an appropriate executive body of the village council and the city council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u17	Kirilczuk Eugene Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u18	Thank you, Kirilchuk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! I feel that not everyone has read this law deeply. I'm giving you an example to be convincing to everyone, teacher, that's the fact that I was in Manewitsk district, married a man with land. Unemployed, she is not registered for unemployment simply because she has entered the family of a man with land. And that is illegal and unfair, which is why this law largely addresses the question of how to account for people who do not have income from the family in which they are. Because of this, such a law must be passed immediately, for the mass of complaints on the matter is coming from the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u19	Thank you for your support. I would also like to point out that this bill has actually been discussed at a meeting of the Social Policy and Work Committee, and it has been decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be based.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u20	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich. Sit down, please. There is Ludmila Leontievna Denisova, the prime reporter for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Please, Ludmila Leontiyevna, the main report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u21	Good day, fellow citizens, distinguished national MPs, I'm sorry I didn't make it to the beginning, the road conditions are very difficult for today. I have sent a letter to you, honourable national deputies, to postpone the consideration of this bill. Because yesterday, when there was a discussion of the two bills and the honourable national deputies and the government, there were a lot of observations, including changes to the law on personal agriculture and to the law on employment. And that's why we decided in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to contact you with a letter in exchange for a bill that has already been drafted. But you didn't support our proposal, and that's why this bill is now under consideration. What this bill means is it's addressed in a clearer definition in the Employment Act, the state of employment of citizens who own land. Land ownership is not limited to those Ukrainian citizens who live in the village. And I think that some of the national MPs who are present in this room also have these land plots of their property. So to decide, if you don't work, if you don't work, if you don't work there, if you don't do some activity on this land, you do some other work, you have the right and you're going to ask, if you don't work, you're going to be unemployed, you're going to have the right to go to state employment centers and you're going to be unemployed, and you're going to have all the support from a state that's approved by law. If a citizen works on this land, according to the Personal Agriculture Act, he is, under the circumstances set out there, whether he has the right to support it from the State or not. And this is defined by legislation, and this is not considered by this bill. The bill also proposes to extend its own authority to executive bodies of rural, rural and urban councils on the accounting of citizens who own property, land use and information about public authorities. By way of way. Complementary to Article 33 of the Law on Local Self - Rule. Investigate insurance cases and the reasonableness of payment of material security by clarifying the data entered in insurance documents with the database not only of the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the DPA but also of local self - government authorities by amending article 12 of the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment. I support this criticism that arose yesterday when these bills were discussed yesterday. And that's why we, I ask you to send this bill back to read again, we're going to work on it, and we're going to take into account your comments that have now been highlighted in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u22	Please ask the reporter. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u23	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Ludmila Leonovno! We've been here the second day, and more faithfully, since last year, we've been discussing the employment in the country, the reasons that have led to the total destruction of large agricultural production today. And today, the state wants to do a variety of manipulations to keep many and many millions of peasants busy. I'm asking you the first question, don't you think, on behalf of the government, that the only way to solve this problem is to create a large agricultural agricultural production in our village, to bring back animals and many, many things. And the next. I'd like you to take very carefully in your bill today to the powers of local councils in what they are today, because it's easy for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. I support, of course, your efforts to create a large commodity production in the country because it's the foundation of the state, because if there is no such production in the country, there will be no state at all, because whoever feeds us, feeds us, feeds everything else. So let's work on this together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u25	The National MP, Matthewnko, is delegating the right to ask questions to the National Deputy of Tkach. National MP Tuck, microphone, please turn it on. I'll ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u26	Roman Tkac, MP for Ukraine. Dear Ludmila Leontiyevno, I'd still be after yesterday's violent conversation, I'd still ask you to in principle, as far as I know, for today, perhaps for too long, or fortunately, but there are no votes in the hall to vote on. Because you know, there are standards here that, unfortunately, can lead to things like corruption. For example, here's an article 9, you put accounting for people who aren't busy on rural councils. Understand, given the qualifications of those working in the village council who consider many elements, they will not be able to lead an active one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u28	Unfortunately, they will not be able to keep an active count of these citizens, members of the OSH, who will be considered either busy or unoccupied. So I would ask you, so let's, really, after the decision is made today, we'll sit down separately and write a law that won't in vain take money out of the state budget from the state execution, and will accordingly help our peasants to be accounted for in the Employment Center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u29	Dear National MP, you know, you're a little bit delayed at the beginning of the Supreme Council, and I've asked the honourable National MPs not to consider this bill today, but I wasn't supported. So I'm going to report this bill, the way it was submitted by the government. I agree with you that in a year, this bill was filed by the government last May. So many events have already been done, and many things need to be done. So I'm going to listen to your opinion, and we're going to sit down together, and we're going to work on improving these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u30	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u31	Thank you very much. I have purely legal questions. First. If we believe that farming work is a place of work, is it considered to be a place of work for someone who owns such a farm and who works somewhere as a co-conspirator in accordance with this law and the labour law, well, the labor legislation of Ukraine? And the second. I would still like to clarify whether it is proposed to amend the Local Self-Government Act, which is the only one that defines the authority of rural, rural, urban councils?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. The co-founder of this draft law does not provide for this. That, indeed, is what order is needed. That is why we and, and I have been very insistent that we postpone the consideration of this bill. And as for the local executive authorities, here, indeed, this bill, which is proposed to be run by the local authorities here, makes such proposals to this law. But there is a need for further consideration and work with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u33	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u34	Thank you. As this bill relates to Bill 4566, I predict that I insist that we do not support the bill. And I would like to draw the attention of all the Ukrainian national MPs that this bill provides for the transfer of landowners, and there were land users, to the category of occupied population, depending on whether they use the land as a target. Pay attention. It was said here that this law would create, first of all, corruption, it was such a semi-corruption law. Because accounting and information will be kept by the secretaries of the village council -- the girls who are there after school, and who are not prepared for this job. You promised the heads of the village council completely different when you gathered there and in the Palace “Ukraine” and elsewhere and told them about a happy good life. I propose not to uphold this law. It'll totally make it impossible to resolve those issues that you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u35	Dear People's Deputy! Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! You know, if we consider every law we're going to, you know, insult our employees who work in the local executive authorities, that they're going to create some corruption there, well that's wrong in my opinion. They need to be supported, given authority, and asked to be held accountable for the use of these powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u36	Ungurani Pavel Jakimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u37	Dear Ludmila Leontyev, I think, really, to the honor of the ministry that you lead and to the fact that you raise such important problems as the employment of people in the village. We fully support this, but we understand that this bill has to be considered together in a package of individual agriculture bills, it has to be a harmonised relationship with regard to employment and land work. So I think we should support your proposal in the hall today. Yet, in order for our audiences and audiences to be free of questions, to what category of people did you propose to apply this law so that there would be no unnecessary questions about what corruption would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u38	You know, this law does not foresee any corruption. This law has been carried out by an anticorruption expert from our committee at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And so, if the honourable national MPs may be predicting some corruption, then there is no corruption. And this bill, it regulates, is the demand to regulate issues about citizens who have land. If they're working on them, if they're not working on them, if they're going to be there. And those citizens who have areas under the cities, under the livestock of some, under the garages, these citizens don't apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u39	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u40	Indeed, Ludmila Leontiyevna, the bill is designed to regulate in the legal field the employment of citizens who are landowners and who use their land as a destination, such as farmers or members of agricultural cooperatives. How can they be counted as busy or not? And what if a person has a land plot but does not work on it and wants to be unemployed? This is what the bill decides. And who should take account of these citizens in the village council also decides on this bill. Where's the corruption? It is only the wrong thinking of those who may be accustomed to drawing this corrupt scheme and seeing corruption here. Sophia Leontievna, the question is very clear. After all, the Social Policy Committee's profile recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis. So I understand you're suggesting that you send him to rework and re-read. Specify your position as minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u41	I want to clarify my position, which I said at the outset. Yesterday, a bill was considered by the government to amend the Law on Personal Farmers, and it was not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so I ask that we work together, and this is an integral part of this government policy that is now being implemented to eliminate unemployment in the countryside. So I'm proposing a second reading, we're going to work on this bill, along with one that wasn't supported yesterday, and we're going to send it over to the honourable people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u42	Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u43	Thank you. I have this question, actually, about situations that are in place. Today it was not about the people who received the pies. The pie has one and a half acres, a woman, and she has eight children. And since she has about a half a hectare [1.5 ha] of sand on Polissa, she is not paid child support. And that is the right of the law to decide only for the head of the district administration. And he wants to help, and he doesn't want to. Because I think it's a matter in the amended law that needs to be settled, because it's a socio-terrestrial problem that's in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u44	Thank you, Your Honor. We will certainly take your opinion into account in the drafting of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u45	Thank you, Sophia Leontievna. Have a seat, please. Let's write it down for discussion. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The document presented by the Cabinet of Ministers in the way we received it cannot be maintained. And the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote for it. I want to explain our position. Well, first of all, I want to say that there are a lot of observations about this document, including in science and science. But most of all not even that, the worst part is its discriminatory nature. The main purpose of these changes and those proposed at the end of the session yesterday is to call the villagers who have land-based jobs in the countryside in full unemployment conditions and then to deny them the opportunity to register, including at the Employment Centre, and get the right status, and to get the right support. It's perfectly clear who would have tried to pass in a different way. It seems to someone in the government that a sack of oats or corn that a peasant receives, putting the land on a lease, is equivalent to the employment of a citizen in terms of the income he receives. We remember, however, that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had made a decision that had been made yesterday, and today, it was proposing a series of bills that tried to bring this situation to order. I would like to point out that peasants, at least very many of them, and today they live, give a word as on a reservation, because there is no decent pension provision, and first of all there is no non-compliance with the Social Standards Act, and then there is no minimal medical support. Many villages today are cut off from civilization by the fact that there is no bus connection. If I add to this a series of questions, which I stress again, were proposed yesterday and today, what will happen is that the final village will be destroyed. And one more thing I'd like to pay attention to. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, attention is drawn to the winners of the presidential election and attention is paid to what is happening in other categories. And there's interesting things going on. For example, the president of Ukraine, after receiving 5 percent of the votes, avenged the voters by issuing a decree to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to Bandera. The prime minister, who promised free acts on earth today, submits such documents, that is, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u47	Ungurani Pavel Jakimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u48	Paul Unguryan, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I think everyone in this room understands that the personal agriculture bills that we discussed yesterday and the rural employment bill that we are considering today are really very important. But we fully understand that these issues need to be harmonized with one another. Because it cannot appear that a farmer who owns tens of acres [10 ha] of land or hundreds of acres [100 ha] of land can compare himself to an unemployed one. But other questions are: Can a person with a small piece of land and gardening or gardening near his home not be granted such status? Of course, both right and wrong. So I support the position of the Minister of Social Policy and the work that these issues need to be harmonised and addressed in a package and comprehensively so that the issue of rural employment, the issue of segregating private agriculture as a very important social package for peasants -- they were normalized. So I support the position of the Ministry. And today we just have to figure out whether we're supporting the bill in the first reading and in the second reading, we're going to work with the individual agriculture bill, or we're in the replaceable room today, and then we're going to have a comprehensively harmonised approach to solving these problems. So I think that today we need to make up for the decision that Parliament will make, but the main thing is that this problem has been raised, it needs to be solved. The Yulia Tymoshenko Block proposes to address this problem in a comprehensive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u49	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u50	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I'm once again going up to this rostrum to say those words that I've heard the words of reform in this room tens and hundreds of times every day. But what about the reforms that have been taking place in Ukraine for the past two decades, which have led to a catastrophic deterioration in people’s lives? Reforms, so - called in the countryside, have led to the complete destruction of the Ukrainian village. Who created the problem that we are discussing today? It was created by power itself. And today, authorities, instead of offering solutions to the further development of the agri-industrial complex and the resolution of rural employment. She offers to resolve her questions. First, I emphasize again, the question: Like millions of unemployed beggars to whom. I apologize to the villagers for those words, but it's really how to make them busy today, to show the community that we don't have unemployment in the country and the other how to deprive them of social assistance and subsidies. I'd like to say. That in the proposed bill, the government doesn't provide prescriptions for how to solve these problems. And the recipe for solving this problem is one, first of all, today it's necessary for all the government that's been in the country for two decades to recognize that all those reforms that have taken place in the country have a devastating nature, and to continue with the crucial measures to return to the village of the great agricultural production itself. I would like to say that today, at the level of government, it really needs a serious work of regulatory legislation on statistics in the country, that is, calculating certain points. And here we talked about local self-government. Then give him 20 billion for delegated authority, maybe that's the role he'll play. And the next. Let's talk in this room about the reforms in the sense, as the hero of the socialist work from Cherkaščina said today's late Luka Alexiyovich Ivaništenko, he said: “Let's look back, let's kneel down and bow down to him and let's not ruin anything, let's roll up our sleeves and work to make people live better.” He's not alive. He has a low creak and memory. But in these wise words there is a way out of what we have come to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u51	The discussion is over. Ludmila Leontovno, is there a need in the closing word? None. Andrew Mikhailovich, is there a need in the closing word? Yes. Please, there's a microphone. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u52	I would like to emphasize once again that the Committee on Social Policy and Work suggests that we consider the first reading and accept it as a basis. So I realized, as a result of this discussion, it's the idea that we should go over it and re-examine it on the first reading. I think we should define this by voting in the room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, vote for first reading and on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the employment of citizens who own land. [[usage]] Registration number 4568. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:08]] For 181 The decision is not taken. A proposal has been made to re-send the project for further processing and to re-read it. The proposal is for a vote. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:42:38]] For 193 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Please turn on the microphone from the procedure for further work of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, we propose the following questions for all the bills that are discussed in the first reading to be considered in a simplified procedure. If possible, please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! There is a suggestion that the issues discussed in the first reading should be considered in a simplified procedure. I'm putting myself to the vote. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[10:43:39]] For-187 Decision taken. The following questions discussed in the first reading will be discussed in a simplified procedure. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine on State Technical Supervision is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4448]] Report to the head of the jury of the jury, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! You're looking at a bill that regulates certain shortcomings that have been made in the adoption of the Road Traffic Act. [[Registration number 4448]] The previous laws today and yesterday, which we discussed in the agricultural sector, confirm that there is complete chaos in the legislative base in the agricultural sector. And what has arisen today is the need to consider and adopt this bill once again. Because the Law on Road Traffic and Amendments to this Act of 24.09.2008 and the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance 403 of 28.09.2009 "On the Order and Conduct of Road and Technical Supervision" have introduced coalitions that are unacceptable to agricultural producers. So it was predicted that all owners of agricultural technology, including combines, tractors, trailers, and all, were obliged to send their technology 20, 30, 100 km to technical stations for technical inspection. And I think that's unacceptable today in an agro-industrial complex where technical equipment is practically carrying about 90 percent, we realize that this technology can't always reach this technical station. Given this, there's a proposal to make changes, where to return, that technical supervision can be carried out by a technical inspection that exists in the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u57	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u58	At the Ministry of Agriculture for more than 50 years, it'll give you the opportunity to save money, and it'll allow you to save the technology that's still breathing on incense today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the Committee, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko. Please, there's also Mikola Volodymyrovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u60	Our committee considered the matter and accepted it: recommending that the Supreme Council accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u61	Thank you, sit down, please. We sign up for a discussion, two for, two against. Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u62	Paul Sulkowski, Plaintish. You know our committee unanimously supported this bill. Since the government is today, it should be understood that only damage has been done to the farmers in connection with the adoption of a government project that was previously adopted. That's what we have to figure out for a hundred kilometers, not a hundred miles, is that you have to pull a trailer, drive a tractor that's never actually going on a paved road -- it's only in the field, and there's nowhere else to go. [[From Mikola Volodymyrovich spoke]] Still benefits from the cultivation of the earth. And you know, you have to think about doing that kind of damage. Therefore, we must immediately, Your Honor, remove this damage that has been done by the previous government and the so-called coalition, and correct this situation, only the villagers are thanking us all, we will help with these changes that we are voting for today. We will help the peasants to make it easier for them to process the soil that has already been under way in recent years, in practice, many soils are not processed because of the inability to deal with such a crisis, financial situation and economic situation in the state that the orange officials have proved in five years. So even if I do, I have this suggestion that inspections of district, district, agricultural administrations should plan a mechanism that even upon request, rural councils should go to places and conduct tests on this agricultural technique. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u64	Only then, step by step, will we have some confidence in the Ukrainian and Ukrainian authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u65	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u66	I would like to say, Mr. Chairman, that there are so many voices in this room about the support of the Ukrainian village. But there's nothing but chat. It is less said, however, that laws are being passed here, which are also building lobbying schemes. And today, what's being introduced with regard to the technical survey of agricultural technology in the village is actually lobbying and corruption schemes that are aimed not at supporting agricultural production in Ukraine, but at legitimizing the country's struggles. Therefore, this proposed bill is an attempt to resolve this issue, and we have discussed this with the drafter. He does not fully address this problem, for there are moments that still need to be worked out. In particular, the question that it is part of today is that of the Administrative Code of Ukraine, in particular article 127 with the badge 1. So the agrarians are still waiting for the adoption of this bill, its value for the entire agrarian complex is great, and you've heard about the stupid things that the reporters have been saying about today, the only station in the whole of Poltava area that has a license to do these works. I can imagine when the Poltava area will be driven by combines, agricultural machines to this station to do this particular survey. It's all propaganda. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u68	It'll only end with peasants, because no one's going to do a quality technical exam. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u69	All those who wanted to be recorded spoke. Please, the faction that didn't sign up from the Lithuanian Block, the National MP of the Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u70	Respectful national MPs, tying the rule of law to technical supervision in an agribusiness complex is an extremely important issue today. And that's a decision to make. But I don't support, on behalf of the faction today, the committee's decision to accept it in the first reading. Because this is a question, this rule needs to be linked in general to engineering and labour security policies in the agricultural sector. I can't be torn off by myself. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u71	It's about voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agro-industry Complex of Ukraine on the implementation of State technical supervision for adoption as a basis in the first reading. [[Registration number 4448]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:53:51]] For 355 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on tribal matters in animal farming is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5034]] Reported: Minister of Agrarian Politics Melnik Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u72	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the main purpose of the bill is to further improve the legal regulation of the system of management of tribal animal husbandry and control the way in which changes are made to the laws in force in this area, such as the general national programme of selection in animal agriculture, tribal affairs, licensing of certain types of farming activities and the Code of Administrative Offences. In particular, the bill contains provisions and standards that ensure greater efficiency of government administration and State control in the area of tribal animals and define the requirements and rules for the acquisition and use of tribal resources, for the refinement of activities that are subject to licensing, for the determination of the conformity of tribal subjects with a certain status, for the order of national registration of tribal and control animals and tribal subjects, for the registration of national selection achievements. The bill also defines the functions of executive authorities and identifies their mandate in the area of tribal affairs. In particular, the provisions of the bill contain rules on the powers of administration and control, the functioning of the state inspection of tribal affairs, the activities of the state system of management of tribal affairs in animal husbandry, the financing of public selection programmes, the preservation of the gene pool of existing local and endangered species, the control and coordination of activities with the execution of the selection programmes. If the bill is adopted, it is expected to create conditions for the further development of tribal animals, improve the domestic selection system and contribute to genetic progress, create high-productive animal populations, reduce the dependence of domestic producers on imported tribal resources, reduce the number of infringements and falsifications in the tribal resource market and, in general, increase the economic efficiency and competitiveness of animals. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u73	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the Committee, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Agriculture for Ukraine is a leading industry that provides food security for the country, provides jobs for almost half of the population, and forms an essential part of the budget’s income. A key condition that ensures the stability of any sector's development and its cost-effective introduction. In animalry, the factors that shape the size of the cost and quality of production are the technology and the genetic properties of the animals. If the introduction of appropriate technologies depends solely on material resources and can be done in a short period of time, the formation of competitive animal genotyps that should ensure proper productivity and quality, doppling and long-term. That is why tribal work in animal production is defined as one of the priorities for the development of the field. For the time being, Ukrainian legislation in tribal animal affairs needs to be improved in part to bring world norms and rules to a selectively tribal work in the field. Today we are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on tribal matters in animal farming. [[Registration number 5034]] The purpose of the bill is to establish legal and organizational bases for activities in tribal affairs in animal production by amending the existing laws of Ukraine, namely: the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Ukrainian Law on Tribal Affairs in Animalry, the Ukrainian Law on the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, the Ukrainian Law on the Statewide Programme of Animal Selection for 2010. The changes are made to bring into line with the standards of valid legislation on tribal matters in animal farming and their harmonization.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u76	to European standards. The committee at its meeting on December 2, 2009, supported the bill and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u77	Let's sign up for a discussion: two for, two for, two for. Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Sulkowski, Ravenshina. You know that we have extremely good laws on tribal matters, and we could save this area. But with such a deplorable government policy, there's a minister like Melnik, who in almost five years and during his time leading the ministry, the village has been virtually ruined and has not been completely helped by the APC's policy to improve the village. And that's why I think that even we will vote on this bill, but only it can benefit the village when there's a business minister who won't stand on the side of the business clans, but will stand on the side of the peasants and really the village of Ukraine. And that's why I'm ashamed, for example, that today is finally over. Look over the years, it has rarely been possible to see Minister Melnik in this rostrum, where he would report some draft laws. Today, when he sees that he already has kerosene to leave his post, he again begins to appear shameless and would like to remain in the MinAPC position. I am ashamed of the policy of the Minister of APK Melnik. And I am even more ashamed, with the peasants of Ukraine, when he gained insolence, insolence and slips on his knees, he came to Yushchenk to the height. To waste the hero of Ukraine. This is where he finally put the country’s peasants to the executive authorities. So I don't think a minister like Melnik should continue to be in this position. And the sooner the better. Then the village will really feel some help and will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u79	Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u80	It's the Lithuanian Block. Since we're looking at Bill 5034 instead of being a minister, I would like to say, first of all, that we can't agree with the conclusions of the explanatory note, because the actual situation in the national selection requires the inclusion of imported genetic and selective resources. Therefore, when working on the Lithuanian Block, the first reading will support the bill, but in preparing for the second reading, it is necessary to take into account in article 23 of the bill that the financing of state-owned animal selection programmes should not only be based on funding from the State budget and from sources that are not prohibited by legislation. Since we are today trying to harmonize this legislative base with the WTO requirements, we need to add this article by paragraph: The purchase of imported tribal genetic resources is exempt from taxation if necessary. And the second part. Regarding the development of the project, it is suggested that the national books of tribal animals of the State Register of Tribal Subjects in Animalry and the State Register of Animal Selection Achievements are accessible to interested persons. It is appropriate to set up an order of access to these registers and to define more detail about interested persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u81	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on tribal animals for adoption in the first reading. [[Registration number 5034]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:03:20]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the draft Act amending article 370 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, but the author of this project asks that his law be repealed, removed from consideration. There is a need for the author to explain his motives, or we will agree to that and put the vote on the motion to withdraw. What? Remove Project 5305, by Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. No objections? I'm voting on the motion to withdraw this bill, withdraw it from consideration. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:04:33]] For 343 Decision taken. The bill has been revoked. The next bill is 5455, 5445, I'm sorry. You'll report it, won't you? A draft Law amending article 370 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor! Your point is to consider a draft Ukrainian law amending article 370 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which provides for criminal responsibility for the provocation of bribes. This article has existed in the Code since the time of the Soviet Union itself, and it provides for the responsibility of law enforcement officials to create conditions before the bribe is provoked, to commit the crime by others. In view of the fact that the crime in question is covered by other forms of crime, namely, it may be regarded as exceeding official authority or may be considered an abuse of power and office, and I am invited to decriminalize this crime and exclude article 370 from the Ukrainian Criminal Code in its entirety. This will allow law enforcement officials to fight corruption more effectively. At the same time, all presidential candidates declared the need to combat corruption. And we know that today the Ukrainian state is not at the proper level to fight corruption, but it is in the second hundredth. Moreover, corruption today devours every aspect of life. And I think that this bill will just regulate, allow law enforcement authorities to work more effectively to combat corruption. The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement Reviewed the bill and unanimously supported it. Please support the bill and accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u83	Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u85	Let's sign up for a discussion. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u86	Vladimir Yavorowski. Yulia Timoshenko, Kirovograd, 100th constituency. Dear colleagues, dear voters, if you look at the practice, let's say how Poland fought corruption, it didn't get over it to the end, but the percentage of it, well, is very and very small, especially in law enforcement agencies, particularly in the road police there and so on. Because of this, it seems to me that the old norm that we are correcting today was completely unfair, to some extent even covering the system of corruption. That's why I think it's the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" that's very normal. We're going in a normal, civilized way. Indeed, today corruption has been so pervasive, literally, at all times of our Ukrainian life that smoking it from there will be incredibly difficult. I'm not saying it's a unique way to help us completely overcome this colossal simple evil that is now rooted in Ukrainian society and every Ukrainian person, but it's going to be a kind of fear. And I think if this is, if this law becomes effective, if it's signed and signed by the president, it'll give you that opportunity, and I think it would be very good. And probably. The good of Shemchuk should be a certain initiator here, such things immediately, literally, after the adoption of the law, would have to be performed and published by such a few operations, that is to say absolutely make it showy, to show that it happens literally to everyone. As a result, I believe that this bill needs to be supported, it will improve the situation if the law enforcement authorities have the political will to implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u87	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Of course, corruption must be combated, bribery must be combated. The relevant bill is in neighbouring Poland. But under the modern law enforcement system, and even in the words of the previous speaker, it was said to make these things show. That is, it is very easy to order from political, from other considerations, even in determining the relationship of the law enforcement agencies themselves, we see it. So provocation is a bribe, and it's a demonstration process, and it actually turns into a hunt for people who, of course, raise questions in law enforcement, and it doesn't lead to any positive outcome. So this is not a simple question. And it needs to be discussed in detail both with law enforcement agencies, and with public organizations, to listen to the world’s experience. And we're not going to support this bill in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u89	The discussion is over. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 370 of the Criminal Code, Registration Number 5445, deals with the vote for approval in the first reading. [[on the provocation of bribes]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:10:54]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. By factions, please show me. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 62, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" = 15, communists -0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, we must now consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Registration number 3051-1, second reading. As you may have noticed, as well as I have no comparative table, there is no committee decision on this issue. So I'm going to the session room, and we don't really have a chance to look at this project right now, so I got a letter from the committee informing me that he had reviewed this project and looked at it yesterday, and the table is only being sent to the General Legal Office right now. This is the result of the thoughtless inclusion in the agenda of the Conciliation Council. There will be a request for planning our plenary sessions, so that we pay attention to the readiness of a project and include it in the schedule of meetings only when it is ready for consideration, especially with regard to projects to be considered in the second reading. So we only have one way out of this: to move this issue to the next plenary week. Please, Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u90	Thank you, Olga Bodnar, Parenthood Party, Timoshenko Street. I want to say that our committee considered and, as promised on the Conciliation Council, they considered yesterday and made a table. That's why there's no problem. But since we have adopted the Rules, and have adopted the Rules by law, in this case the Legal Authority should now consider this bill and the table that we have prepared, and then every national MP has the right to read this table for ten days. Therefore, it was already up to whether the Act “On Rules” would be signed, thank you. The committee did.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u91	Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u92	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! I'm in favour of the proposal, in the development of that thought that came from the first deputy head of the committee. Let's really move without a vote, because here we have to follow the rules of the Rules and here we don't even have to put it to a vote, but we have to move it when all the necessary documents are prepared, including the conclusion of the General Legal Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u94	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. I'd like to support my colleagues. It is indeed necessary to transpose this bill in view of the fact that the Rules now appear to be already in the law of Ukraine, that any of the deputies has the right in the Administrative Court to charge the infringement of the procedure, to familiarise themselves with the bill and to participate in its vote. So it's only natural that we have to transpose this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we have the law in force on Tuesday, the Conciliation Council took place on Monday, so we can write this down to the fact that at the time of the adoption of the decision to include in the schedule of meetings we have not yet had the legal situation that is today. That is why we are simply taking it off the table today so that all the terms and requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules can be met in preparing draft bills for second reading. A draft Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2634]] Reporter: Skoubenko Volodymyr, head of the Seminoga People's Deputy Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u96	In accordance with article 23 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and with the need to clarify the provisions of the individual articles of the bill, the President-in-Office of the People's Parliament requests that the Committee defer its consideration of the bill amending the Code of Water for Ukraine. [[Registration number 2634]] Please support this vote and move this bill to a later date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee is proposing a postponement of consideration of the draft law. The proposal to postpone consideration of the draft Law amending the Code of Water for Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 2634]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:45]] For 283 Decision taken. This project has been postponed. A draft Law on the Provision of Services, which facilitates the departure of natural persons abroad from Ukraine or their temporary stay abroad, is being announced for consideration. [["On non-state immigration services"]] The rapporteur is the head of the subcommittee Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Draft Ukrainian Law “On the Provision of Services That Promotes the Departure of Individuals from Ukraine or Their Temporary Stay abroad” under Registration No. 2396, submitted by the Ukrainian People’s Deputies to the three factions: Bondarenko, Crnovol, Stretovich and others – June 2, 2009. And he was accepted by the Supreme Council in the first reading as a basis. “For” was voted by 290 Ukrainian national deputies. The Supreme Council Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement then received 183 proposals from national deputies, 155 of which were taken into account in whole or in part and 28 were rejected. The project worked with the involvement of terminologists, conducted an expert study by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and its agreed edition is now being proposed for your attention. Dear colleagues! Before going through the rights set out in the comparative table, it should be noted that the first is that this bill is being initiated, based on the need to establish uniform requirements for non-state institutions that deal with the provision of appropriate services to persons who want to go outside Ukraine for permanent residence in another country or for other purposes: employment, treatment, education, religious or tourist purposes. Despite the fact that some activity that facilitates the departure of Ukrainians abroad is already regulated by existing legislation, there is a need for legislative determination of the principles of legal regulation of relations that arise in this area. The project covers more than 15 different activities in which emigration services can be provided, and Ukrainian legislation exists only in the tourism sector and somewhat in the employment mediation system abroad. And the last of them is just bylaws. Therefore, a general law is needed to establish general rules for the provision of emigration services and these rules will be aimed at blocking anonymous and illegal activities and may be universal to various types of activities. In addition to existing laws, due to the almost complete absence of these valid laws, the mediation in the area of emigration will remain unregulated, resulting in negative consequences, that is, the cost of readmission, the spread of prostitution and human trafficking, tax evasion, and so forth. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that there are five key points and the lack of time, of course I can’t hear them all, I’m the only one to say. So I'm pointing out that the project is called "On Non-State Immigration Services" and it refers to a variety of subjects that facilitate the departure of persons abroad and who are not authorities. A second bill is being prepared today, namely, “O.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u99	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u100	A second bill is being prepared, namely, on government emigration services — services related to going abroad that are provided to Ukrainian citizens by authorities. Rather than demanding spending from the State Budget, the project will help to fill it. Thus, transparency and the activities of mediators will block the concealment of profits, thus contributing to the payment of proper taxes. I also remind you that as of January 1, this year, a readmission agreement with the European Union has been fully in place, under which Ukraine is obliged to pay for the return to its territory of various criminals who have left Europe from Ukraine. The adoption of this bill will reduce such costs because it will block illegal mediation in the area of immigration and thus reduce the number of illegals and immigrants. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u101	Let's go over the individual parts of the project. Dear colleagues, I have a question for you. We have different options and possibilities, the Rules give us a way to consider the bill in a second reading. I have an offer to consider the proposals made by the legislators after the first reading recommended by the committee. Which of the deputies will insist that they can reason on their proposals. Then consider the amendments that have been made by the deputies, which the committee recommends to take into account if there is an insistence on their consideration in the session room — a separate vote. And then we're going to make decisions on the second reading. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u102	I remind you that 155 amendments have been taken into account, 28 only rejected. So enough has been done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u103	Is there no objection? Will we consider each amendment and each article? Is the first offer accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u104	Roger that. Thank you. First amendment not recommended by the committee to support number 2. Imported by National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatolyovich. He doesn't insist. 5 The amendment was also made by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. He doesn't insist. 8 Amendment of People's Deputies of Carmazin. Don't insist. 10th Amendment of People's Deputy Carmazin. Don't insist. 11th Amendment of People's Deputy Karmazin. That's the same. 13th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. That's the same. 14th Amendment of People's Deputy Carmazin. He doesn't insist. The 20th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u105	Evidently Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u106	40th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. He doesn't insist. 55th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. He doesn't insist. 57th Amendment - the same. 65th. There is no insistence on the subject. 70th. Don't insist. 72nd. Don't insist. 75th. Don't insist. The '80s, also Deputy Carmazin. The committee recommends a rejection. He doesn't insist. 83rd, also Deputy Carmazin. Don't insist. 87th. Nor does he insist. 102nd. Nor does he insist. 109th. Nor does he insist. 110th. Don't insist. 113th. Don't insist. 122nd. That's the same. 127th. There is also no insistence. 173. Amendment of the People's Deputy Karmazin. He doesn't insist. Yuri Volodymyrovich, I see that you have worked so creatively on the committee that all the amendments that have been rejected belong to only one MP. Yeah, yeah, you can see that from the table. It is simply a recommendation to “refuse” that there is no one else. Dear colleagues, here's a question for you. What amendment does the Committee recommend to take into account should be discussed and defined by the Supreme Council on support? Please, the microphone of the national MP Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u107	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! The bill was drafted by a large group of lawyers, including John Vernidubov, Gennady Moskal, many others. I also participated in his work on second reading. And all the adjustments that were made there are completely balanced. Yuri Anatoliyovich made some amendments that are simply ruining this law. And you can select them as separate positions and look at them separately. And this bill is working, and I think it needs to be adopted in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u108	Please, which of the deputies has proposals for consideration of individual amendments that the committee recommends to take into account? Are there any suggestions? There is such an offer. People's Deputy Beales. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u109	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I think the bill itself methodologically built completely failed. The thing is, we're legitimizing that illegal. Let's say a commercial vacchanal that came into existence today in the field of emigration services. Imagine, we've got more than 7.5 today. 8.5 thousand licenses for emigration services. We don't know how many migrant workers we have today, how many illegal migrants we have. We don't know how many of our children have been taken abroad today and how they've been billed to the Consular Department of Foreign Affairs. And a number of other problems that arise today. I think that these things should actually be controlled by the state and done by appropriate services. That's why I think it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u110	Please turn on the microphone of the Behwaiz People's Deputy for completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u111	That's why I think this bill has to be sent for serious work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, if there are no proposals for specific amendments that need to be considered and put to the vote, then we move on to a decision on the draft in the second reading. A motion for approval is put to the vote in the second reading of the draft Services Act, which facilitates the departure of natural persons abroad from Ukraine or their temporary stay abroad. [[Registration number 2396]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:29:36]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Yuri Volodymyrovich, what will be the proposal for further work on this project?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u113	Obviously, taking into account the remarks made by a colleague, the more the committee, Valery Ananiyovich Bebelz, I think you really don't need to lose where it has already been done, where there have been a lot of people's deputies involved, and it will improve this bill. So I'm asking him to re-read it, because we don't have another procedure, of course, taking into account other suggestions. I fully agree that there must be State control, I fully agree that the law enforcement system has to control the activity, because we might have something that might be, as they say, an uncontrollable process. And that's what they need to take into account. Please support the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, we have this opportunity. According to article 123, part one, paragraph 5, the return of the bill to the Main Committee for further work and the subsequent submission to read second reading. This proposal is based on a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:31:13]] For 296 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Film Act is being announced for consideration. [[on State support for the production of national films]] [[Registration number 2595]] Reported to the chairman of the Yavorowski Committee, Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u115	Vladimir Yavorowski, Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear parliamentarians, dear voters! I want to remind you that since Ukraine developed such a unique kind of art as film, it has gained world fame thanks to Alexander Long. His film “The Earth” is still part of the ten best films of all time and of all nations. I also wanted to remind you that Ukraine has succeeded in a unique movement, so to speak, in cinema art is the Ukrainian poetic film that Parajanov presented in his film "The Shadows of the Ancestors," which was later continued by Yuri Ilyenko in many films: and "The White Bird with the Black Sign", is also the filmmakers of John Mikolajczyk, one word, we are rich, very rich in the film production system. Ukraine could now hold one of the world’s leading cities. However, because of the lack of funding over the past 18 years, because today there is actually a threat to the privatisation of the Odessa Film Studio, there are huge problems today in the Alexander Long Studio. In addition to the decline in funding due to the crisis, we are almost losing Ukraine’s film today. Russia, our neighbor, who has literally invested in the development of cinematography, has provided some benefits for the development of film, and today the production of film in Russia has sixth place among other businesses, imagine, after gas, oil, forest, coal there and so forth. As a result, it is time for us to now not just powder this bill, but to bring it with us some decisive things that could give us new oxygen in the development of Ukrainian cinema. A representative of the Nestor Shufrich Regional Party passed such a bill, and we adopted it on the first reading. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality supported him. Your proposals that came from you are virtually all accounted for, and in fact all of them are included in this bill. And we can really say that with the second reading of this bill, Ukrainian cinema will have a certain, some kind of breakthrough, some kind of window. If you use it wisely, I'm sure it'll help develop our cinematography. The only thing we needed to change was, of course, the very name of the bill, because it was in the first version, it was called: [[I'm done.]] “Improving Amendments to the Film Painting Act. Its final name is now: “About cinematography” to the law and other laws on supporting the production of national films.” [[I'm saying that for the stenographer, and that's in our table.]] Because this applies to other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u116	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u117	including taxes. That's why I'm proposing, because all of these are actually accounted for, or partially accounted for, almost all of the proposals, I don't see the need to go to an article vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, are there any proposals for a change in the way in which the draft legislation is adopted in the second reading compared to the previous one? None. Then let us first consider what the committee recommends to be rejected and then another. As far as deviation is concerned. Proposal number 26, national deputy Lukyanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u119	No, Alexander Volodymyrovich. There's a rejected offer from the national deputy Karpuk. In fact, it's not rejected, and it's counted, just in a different version. Because the definition of the term "national film" remains in the old edition. That's why she's here. Everything remains as it was. Now you're talking about 26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, national deputy Lukyanchuk Please, the microphone. Is he in agreement with the text proposed by the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u121	Thank you. I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u122	Don't insist. I see. Yes, on page 24. Whose amendment is this? National Deputy Lukash Olena Leonidivna. She is now absent for good reasons, so she cannot comment on this. Please, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, what did you reject and what did you do?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u123	I can explain. Rejected, since changes to the tax system law must be made only with the adoption of the law on the congregation for the development of national cinematography, the explanation is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u124	Now, honourable colleagues who have proposals for amendments, which the committee recommends to take into account. Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u125	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of the amendment to Article 20 is the sixth page. I don't agree with the committee's proposal. The committee here proposes a completely different edition than we did in the first reading. This is what we're talking about, and we're talking about supporting cinema. And here they try to include a cinematography, or a foundation that goes into the development of this kind of art, not only were those that are concerned, but they also write: National Association of Ukrainian Writers, National Association of Ukrainian Artists, National Union of Ukrainian Composers, National Association of Ukrainian Theatre Actors. I don't know what kind of unions are left. Let's write the National Academy of Medical Sciences here. Let's write the National Academy of Sciences here and so forth. That's why I'm not suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u126	Correction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich, allow me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u128	Number 15, please, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u129	Allow me, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, to express your firm objection. It's about ten representatives of this, let's say, board of directors not to be run by officials again, they go there, let's say, from government structures, there and so on. Why did the writer community come up here? I didn't bring it. Adam Ivanovich, but the writers' union are the authors of the script. The artist community – it is mandatory for each film to be an artist. It's a theater audience, because there's actors in every movie. Adam Ivanovich, this is a very normal democratic norm for no monopolies. You know, you know, the wider this spectrum, the more democratic and transparent it is. I'm asking you to support me, Adam Ivanovich, this is an option when you're wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u130	The amendment of National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovič, number 15, which formulates a new edition of article 20 — financial support for the film industry — is based on the vote on support. I'd like to make a statement. Stop the vote, please. The refinement is Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u131	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, let's be careful. You can split the vote as you suggest. So you can actually put Karmazin's amendment to the vote, which is not counted, but rejected. That's the Committee's readjustment, you know. There was one in Carmazin, and the committee had written about the carmazine repairs that I was talking about. So let's put the committee amendment to the vote. The committee took this into account. We're against that. We're ready to support Karmazin's editorial work, which, as it were, is cut by a committee here. Do you understand what is done?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I'm sure you're wrong, Adam Ivanovich. On the contrary, it seems to me, please, that we may vote not to vote. But to involve as many representatives as possible, people who are not dependent on it, at the expense of this special fund. I don't see anything here. We didn't narrow anything down, but we expanded it. But put it to the vote. I don't deny it. But please support this more democratic norm. Moreover, there is no correction by the author himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, we've got a situation quite a bit of trouble right now. I looked who was calling for a second reading. Since we do not have a legislative initiative as a parliamentary committee. And the amended text proposed by the second - reading committee does not contain any proposal for a legislative initiative that is unacceptable at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u134	Please, then let's take this correction off. I don't deny it. Then let the officials do all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u135	I'll have a question now. That's how we can do it. Whether we can vote in the first reading, or whether we can vote in favour of the amendment by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u136	Let's get Carmagine fixed, that's his right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u137	There is a proposal by the people's deputy Martinyuk to support the amendment of the national MP Karmazin. Amendment 15 Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyevich is voting, please specify [[11:41:54]] For 315 The amendment of the People’s Deputy Karmazin is supported. Please, on what other amendments is there a need for consideration, a discussion for a separate decision? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u138	In general, there is an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u139	I am voting on a motion for approval in the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Film Act. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:42:40]] For 347 Decision taken. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, the Rules require us to clarify now whether we have the opportunity to adopt decisions in general, after the second reading, or whether there are no problems that need to be further developed in the third reading. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u140	There is a general proposal to vote, there are no problems that could, for example, interfere with the signing of this bill by the President and the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support and we will do a very good job and welcome to the Ministry of Culture that they now have operational space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u141	The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Cinematography deals with voting as a whole. [[Registration number 2595]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:49]] For 351 The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on coping with the negative effects of the financial crisis]] [[Registration number 5378]] Report by Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u142	Honorary Head, Honorary Fellow National MPs, draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine was developed in connection with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine No. 1533, which entered into force last November. [[Registration number 5378]] It has been introduced that some of the provisions of this law during the consideration of the relevant bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are such that they have lost their relevance and can have a negative effect at this stage. Bill 5378 was adopted at the first reading on December 23, 2009. The second reading takes into account the numerous proposals made by national deputies, professional associations, commercial banks, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine and productive discussions to improve this bill. Given the urgent need to improve the efficiency of regulatory institutions in the financial and credit sphere and to ensure macroeconomic stability in Ukraine, the law proposes the following, as reflected in the comparative table. First of all, I point out that the first reading of the bill provided for an increase in terms and a return on exchange from 90 to 180 days. Since this rule is already taken into account by Ukrainian law No. 1814 of 20 January of this year, I propose that this rule be excluded from Bill 3,5378. With the exception of paragraph 1 of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine also agrees. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to paragraph 3 of the bill, which amends article 42 of the National Bank of Ukraine Act in order to support the bank, which requires financial recovery, provides for the right of the National Bank to contract the inclusion of a refinancing loan in a subordinated debt. During the committee’s consideration, the decision to exclude two problematic parts is that the bank should be granted a non-conformity loan and a non-conformity refinancing agreement. Although the amended standard is supported by the Supreme Council Committee, after extensive consultation with the National Bank, Kabmin, I propose that experts exclude the above-mentioned standard from the bill for further elaboration of this standard. So I would like to vote separately in favour of my proposal to exclude paragraphs 1 and 3 of the first chapter of Bill 5378. The law also provides for an improvement in the terms and conditions of the restructuring of individual loans to commercial banks – this is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u144	And I ask that the people's deputies support these positions that allow people to ease the burden of servicing the debts they have in front of commercial banks. Thank you for your attention, please support this bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! Since there are questions and suggestions already, even from the reporter itself, there are only 12 amendments to which the committee has different reactions. I propose that we look at each amendment in turn, regardless of the committee's recommendation. Is there a denial? There's a denial, please. There are no questions for the rapporteur now – this is the second reading. Are there any other suggestions? Please, the People's Deputies of Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u146	Deputies! I suggested that we go, really, on every amendment. But I would like to pay attention to the amendments made by the national MP Carmazin -- many of them. This will take a very long time. We on the committee have considered this issue and we have decided that this should be a separate bill concerning the National Bank, banking and if it has no relation to this bill. So let's make my offer anyway. As far as Carmazin is concerned, there is no way to ask him not to consider these amendments, because 98 percent of them are compared to what was in the first reading of our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! The number 12 is not 120 or 230. This is 12 amendments, and I don't think that's a lot. Please, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u148	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. I insist that all the amendments be considered, because this argument that my colleague was making is not one that can determine the fate of these amendments should be determined by the hall. And I think if we go through with this amendment, we're not going to break the procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u149	Is there no objection? Since we have the Regulations for polynomiality, each amendment, from the first to the twelfth, is considered. Consensus. Amendment number one, national deputy Krutz. The committee finds that he considered it editorially. Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Krutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u150	I'm asking you to support this amendment, because this is a list of those financial organizations that are not in the form, the order in which insurance reserves are formed. Insurance reserves form banks, so it's a normal amendment, it's technical and it just needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u151	Please, I'd like to hear, National Deputy Krutz, your editorial differs from the one recorded by the committee and is recommended for approval. Do you agree with this paper or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u152	I agree with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u153	Amendment No. 1 of the people's parliament of Kruc as drafted by the committee of profile is subject to the vote, please be determined. [[11:51:03]] For-286 Correction supported. Amendment No. 2 of Kim's National Irina Mikhailovna. May I have the microphone of the People's Deputy Akimov?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, this is a fundamental amendment and I ask that it be taken into account and voted in favour. The result will be that article 42 of the Ukrainian law will not be supplemented by part four, the contents of which are set out in the third column. In other words, it would not be possible to include a bank-issued refinancing loan in a subordinated debt warehouse.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u155	Please let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u156	Dear Chairman, I've taken this amendment into account, and in general I suggest this part, part three in the table rule out at all. As for the changes to the National Bank Act, delete altogether. This novel needs further work, and I think that even though then maybe it'll be a separate bill, if that's the case. So please rule it out and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u157	Thank you, Yuri Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u158	No, except for this amendment, paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u159	Yuri Volodymyrovich, I remind you that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u160	Excluding part three.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u161	Turn off the microphone on the stand. I would like to remind you that we are working on the amendments that have been made with the recommendations of the committee that are set out in the comparative table. Now we can't look at any novels that will be recommended. So the proposal now made by Yuri Volodymyrovich coincides with an amendment that is essentially not counted, but written that it is partially counted. Now, please, the People's MP of Akimov has made his argument. Yuri Volodymyrovich, you have the word about the reaction to the amendment of the people's deputy of Akim's Irina Mikhailovna as drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u162	Her editorial, I agree with the editor of Akimov's deputy, but I suggest that you consider this text to exclude completely paragraph 3 of part one of the proposed bill. And that'll take into account her correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u163	Please, the microphone of Akimov's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u164	Thank you. Your proposal coincides with my amendment to remove this supplement to this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u165	Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputies of Akimov deals with the vote. I'd like to make a statement. It's a match. [[11:53:58]] For 214 No correction supported. Don't you get it? Please, the microphone of the people's representative of Žebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, in fact, I don't think you understand what this is about. Deputy Akimov only offers to exclude part three of the paragraph. Yuri Poluniev proposed a more global rule, a third of which should be deleted. Deputy Akimov supports all of this. I think that in the more extensive edition, which is proposed by Yuri Poluniev, you can put to the vote, and the room supports these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I will then, with your permission, not question that someone has not understood the approach, read the amendment and the text proposed by the committee. The National Deputy Akimova proposes to exclude article 42 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. The Committee recommends that article 42 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act be supplemented by part four of this. The article’s content continues. Now the reporter says that what happens to the National Bank is deleted. This is exactly one in a row that matches the proposal of the People’s Deputy Akimov. Clearly, these are identical things: the offer of the national deputy Akimov and what the reporter is offering. The offer of a profile head. The rapporteur and the national deputy of Akimov take the vote. [[Number 2]] Please identify yourself. [[11:55:55]] For 210 The offer is not supported. Offer number three. People's deputy Krutz. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Arjevetin. There's no passing word. I ask the subject who made the proposal, which is supported, you agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u169	But in addition to that, I'd like you to pass on the word to Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u170	Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, point of view of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u171	Since there was a suggestion to cancel this article completely, I believe that the honourable chairman, and I ask you once again to put this article aside. I think it's just that the MPs haven't been able to vote off part three of the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u172	Yuri Volodymyrovich, we will consider the law, and then we will react to your suggestions. Amendment No. 3 of the people’s parliament of Krutza is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:57:25]] For 215 Correction not counted. Amendment No. 4 of the people’s parliament of Krutsa recommends that the committee take into account. Do you need an extra argument?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u173	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u174	None. Yuri Volodymyrovich, do you need an argument?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u175	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u176	None. Amendment No. 4 of the people’s parliament of Krutza is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:00]] For 196 No correction supported. Correction of the number of the People's Deputy Karmazin. The committee recommends a rejection. Ukraine's national deputy is now missing. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, your argument on rejecting the amendment. Yuri Volodymyrovich, your argument about the rejection of Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u177	I propose that this recommendation be rejected, because this does not fall under this bill. As with other suggestions, they are not included in the bill, so the committee recommended that they be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u178	Amendment No. 5 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:01]] For-28 No correction supported. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u179	I have the same argument. This amendment is not part of the bill. The committee recommended that the proposal be rejected, and I support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u180	Amendment No. 6 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:59:42]] For the No correction supported. Amendment No. 7 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. There is a need to argue, Yuri Volodymyrovich. None. Amendment No. 7 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:08]] For -6 No correction supported. Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Is there a need for argument? None. Amendment No. 8 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:35]] For two. No correction supported. 12.00. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, we begin our consideration of the question of the election and release of judges. [[Please sit down!]] The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council’s decision at 12: 30 a.m., we considered the appointment and release of judges at 12: 30 a.m. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask that we treat both the judges present and the decision of the Supreme Council with respect. With regard to further work, after considering the question of appointment and dismissal of judges, we immediately turn to the questions before us. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u182	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the honourable ones present! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on February 17, 2010, considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis. You know the procedure, the judges are in the guest bed and the balcony. Your opinion is on draft Decree No. 6082 on the election of judges. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Committee recommends and the Supreme Council decides to elect judges on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Cerkas region of Potter Ivan Mihajlovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Stryzhewsk, Angel Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u183	Stop, please. There's a denial: Strževska Angela. I just have to make a note of it. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u184	Next. The railway district court of Simferopol Yakushev Tamara Viktorovna; The Baranov District Court of the District of Žitomir district of Mikhaluk Alexander Pavlovich; Bologna District Court of Zitomir Slusarchuk Natalija Fedorovna; Uzhgorod District Court of Zakarpatsk District of Benz Constance Constantine; The Jankovsky District Court of the Freedoms Region of Kiev, Natalia Pavlovna; The Páznańsk district court of the Lugansk district of Archipenko Angelika Viktorovna; Suverodonian City Court of Luhansk Rukas Maxim Sergiyyovich; The Pre-Industrial District Court of the region of Lviv, Bornjak Roman Orestovic; The Luben Regional Court of Poltava District of Gudkova Sergia Vejacheslavovich; The Annual District Court of the District District of Berezuk Oleg Grigorovitch; From the District Court of Ravenna district of Micko Igor Mikolaiovich; The Ravenna City Court of the district of Kuhartz Viktor Mikolaiovich; The Kozov District Court of Ternopil district of Virst Mikhail Mikhailovich; The Shumsky District Court of Ternopil district of Kovtunović Oleg Vasilovich; High-Soil District Court of the Herson district of Drigval Valeri Mikolaiovich; Dniprovsky District Court of Herson Polyjan Vladimir Mikolaiovich; Isiaslav District Court of the Hmelnick district of Demchuk Petar Volodymirovich; Tallinn District Court of the Cherka district of Mishchenko Catherine Mikolayovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u185	Wait a second. Do you have a warning? Please, Odarchenka microphone, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I ask that the draft ruling of Judge Dniprovsky of the District Court of Herson Polyhian Vladimir Mikolaiovich be excluded. I have additional documents that I'm going to refer to the committee today, and I'm sure they need further consideration in order to make a decision on it. This is herson’s medical expert’s decision on his health and other evidence of the need to reexamine the issue. Please exclude it from the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u187	There's no question about the other candidates?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u188	The Bill of Judges No. 6082, with the exception of Judge Stryževsky Angela Anatoliyovna and Polyjany Vladimir Mikolaiovich, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:36:25]] For 305 Decision taken. Now, with regard to the nomination of Judge Stryževsky Angela Anatolovna, please, National Deputy Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u189	Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw the attention of all the National Deputies to the fact that Strizevska Angela Anatoliyevna, Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, has repeatedly been dealt with in the Committee on Justice. There was a debate over the fact that the judge had repeatedly made illegal decisions, including the annulment of the decision of the Shevchenkov Criminal Court. After that, the Supreme Court of Ukraine ordered the annulment of its decision, pointing out that the actions of the judge were illegal. I know you've been given a judge. At this time, there is a complaint within the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. She also attends the discussion. So there are two proposals now. The first is either we take it and we vote the first question separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u190	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u191	Or we can take a further look at her question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u192	National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u193	Thank you. Because I realize that the committee has studied this issue because I am addressing the rapporteur, and I have made the appropriate decision to recommend it. I realize that someone might have personal warnings, there might be general phrases that were made by decisions that were amorphous, with no names, no facts, no dates, places of events, and so forth. I understand that there may be some interests here. But the main interest of the people's deputies now is to be able to work qualitatively and fully to these candidates in the court who are now coming to us, for whom we vote. And there were no remarks at work or in any other field of activity to Judge Stryzhewski, which I think would confirm by a representative of the committee. So please let's vote now, and we won't be dealing with different, not always transparent situations right in the session room. I would ask the members of the Supreme Council to support a qualified judge who deserves a long time ago to vote on his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u194	Yuri Anatolyovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u195	Judge Stryzhewski Angel Anatoliyevna’s complaint came only yesterday from the head of the Court of Appeal in Kiev, Chernushenko. And the committee unanimously decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u196	There is a need, I see, to discuss. Hands up. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I suggest we take all the observations that are on the Committee against Organized Crime and Corruption to the Justice Committee. Let us examine again at the next meeting, taking into account the details offered by our colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u198	There's no other offer? There is a proposal to now approve the decision of the Kaletnik People's Deputies. And there is a proposal to postpone the consideration of this issue. Respectable colleagues, perhaps. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u199	Mr. Chairman, please put my proposal to the vote. And the committee's proposal to appoint her to court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules that we have if there is a proposal for deferral, it will be the first to vote. I'm voting on the motion to postpone consideration of the issue of the selection of the court of the Stryzevski Angela Anatoliyovna for study in addition to the committee of materials that came today. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:41:12]] For 148 Not supported. A vote is taken on the proposal to elect Stryževska Angela Anatoliyovna on an uninterrupted basis. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:41:36]] For-119 The decision is not taken. As for the candidature of Polydimir Mikolaiovich. Please, the microphone of the Odarchenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! I have the documents, but they're very delicate, which is the evidence of forensics that testifies to the state of health of the judge in question, and I'm going to refer them to the committee for further consideration. Now I don't want to go into that question, in my view, they're saying that the question needs to be studied in more detail in order to make an adequate decision. So I suggest we exclude him from the draft decree and bring him in for further consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u202	Yuri Anatolyevich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u203	The committee has been studying this issue for two years, the documents that you gave to the committee in 2008, have been studied several times, and a unanimous decision has been made to recommend the appointed judge of the Pali district on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u204	The proposal to postpone consideration of the question of the appointment of Polyamír Mikolaiovich is untimely put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:06]] For 240 Decision taken. The question of the appointment of Polydimir Mikolaiovich to the judge is referred to him on an uninterrupted basis. Please, next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, next draft of Decree No. 6083. According to article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article, part of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of article 62 of the Judicial Act of Ukraine, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Election and Exemption of Professional Judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council decrees the Sukhov Valery Grigorovovich, formerly elected as Judge of the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal. The committee recommended unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u206	A draft decree on the election of the judge on an indefinite basis regarding the election of the Sukhov Valeri Grigorovovich, previously elected on an indefinite basis, as judge of the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal. [[Registration number 6083]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:44:31]] For-300 Decision taken. Next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u207	The next draft is Decree No. 6084. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: choose the Tenet of Roman Volodymyrovich to serve as judge of the Lviv District Administrative Court on an uninterrupted basis. The committee did not recommend that a judge be elected unanimously to the Lviv District Administrative Court. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u208	Please explain the arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u209	On 9 September 2009, the meeting of the committee discussed the appointment of the Chief Administrative Court for election as Judge of the Lviv District Administrative Court, Tenet Roman Volodymyrovich. But the committee of the day before came a complaint about the actions of Judge Teneti, at the time the judge of the Lichakow District Court of Lviv, had the committee’s decision to set up a committee and put the case on hold. The commission went to Lviv, carried out a review of the action on the complaint, as a result of which it was established that on 21 August 2006, a ruling was passed by Judge Tennet. Pay attention! The judge of the Lichakow Court of the city of Lvova approves where the open stock company VAT “Zitomirchlib” is acting. [[Zitomir City]] 21 days later, on September 11, 2006, Judge Tenneta decided to refer the case to the Bologna District Court of the city of Žitomirhlib after studying the documents and concerns of the VAT “Zitomirchlib” and to cancel the previous approval on August 21st, because, I quote, “the measures taken to secure the claim are hindering the manufacturing and economic activities of VAT “Zitomirchlib”. In this way the judge himself acknowledged the illegality, the unfoundedness of the August 21 issue. As a result of these actions, VAT “Zitomirchlib” was blocked, a violent change in leadership was carried out, and as a result of today’s budgeting venture of the “Zitomirchlib” VAT “Zitomirchlib” led to bankruptcy. Here you are, the honourable national MPs, the price of a judge's approval. Thus, on the basis of the materials studied, the committee decided unanimously not to recommend Roman Volodymyrovich’s Tenet as Judge of the Lviv District Administrative Court on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u210	The decision to elect Judge Teneta Roman Volodymyrovich to serve as judge on an indefinite basis. [[Registration number 6084]] Puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:34]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next draft of the ruling. Let us turn to the question of the release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u211	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your honors are here! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meetings on December 17, 2009 and February 17, 2010, reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general conditions. Project number 5490 on the release of judges. According to paragraphs two and nine of the fifth part of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 15 and 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release judges: Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Stanislav Danilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Saltov district of Saltovsk, Irina Borisovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal, Andreichev Galina Mikhailovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the First-Major City Court of the Luhansk Region of Zolotariv Ivana Logwinović - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Kamyanka-Buzki District Court of the Lviv district of Nazarkewicz Mikhail Mihajlovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Bilopil District Court of the Suma District of the Conevo Lilia Konstantinovna, in connection with her achievement of sixty-five years; Judge of the Land Court of Zaporozhye District of Skidanov, Olegovna, in connection with the application for exemption at your own request; Judge of the Commercial Court of Kirovograd, Jacque Vladislav Volodymyrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Tsvetkov Pavlin Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation. That's all there is to it. This is Decree 5490.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u212	Any questions for the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u213	The draft decision on the release of judges is based on a vote. [[Registration number 5490]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:50:20]] For 315 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u214	Draft Decree No. 6085 of 17 February 2010. Draft Decision on the release of judges. According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution, articles 15 and 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. In connection with the application for resignation to be released from the posts of judges: the Court of Appeal of the District of Yakut Olen Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Volin Region of Alexyuk Jaroslav Mikolaiovich; Balaklav District Court of Sevastopol, Limorenko Illu Ivanovich All of it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u215	Any questions for the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u216	None. I'm betting on a draft ruling on the release of judges. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:27]] For 317 Decision taken. Yes. This chapter concludes our consideration. Honorable colleagues, I welcome appointed judges, and I wish you creative work, and making decisions never to give rise to your conscience. [[Applause]] By procedure, please, the people's representative of Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u217	Alexander Vladimirović, I have two questions that I would like to take this moment to address. First question. I think it would be logical if, at a time when negative decisions were taken on the proposed candidates in the room, it would be good to at least give them the opportunity, if they wanted, to express their views on the proposed decision. These are particularly recent cases where the Committee has proposed a negative decision, i.e. not to approve the candidature for life, yes, so the motives have been very approximate and we are in the hall, but I personally have not been able to understand what has happened in fact, which has given rise to such a negative decision. Let us at least agree, if this is not in the Rules, that, in such cases, if a candidate wishes to serve as a judge, it will be possible for him to at least say so. I don't know if there's been a person on the committee. If he was invited to the committee, we were not told by the rapporteur. Therefore, the same matters are still a judge, a man's destiny. Let's at least make a deal, that's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u218	Roger that. You know, we could have asked questions and the reporter answered those suggestions. Dear colleagues. Alla Alexandrovna, let's do it later. Please, it's Alexandrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u219	I want to take advantage of the judge's presence and ask you a question. On the basis of which flags were removed from our jobs with the symbol of our faction, which is personal, for example, my property. It is my understanding in the Rules that, if objects that interfere with work are introduced into the Hall, these items cannot be located. The bottles don't bother anyone. It's our property. I urge you in the presence of the judges to see what is happening in the Supreme Council Hall to return our property to us, deputies. I demand that this be done today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u220	Dear Allo Alexandrovno, I will address your question to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We turn to the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[No. 5378]] [[on coping with the negative effects of the financial crisis]] We stopped at Amendment 9 of the People's Deputies of Poluniev. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, your argument, if there is such a need for MPs to need and maintain this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u221	I have a comment that this is just a clarification of terminology. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u222	Amendment No. 9 of the People’s Deputies of Poluniev deals with the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:55:29]] For-147 No correction supported. Amendment No. 10 of the People's Deputies of Poluniev. Please explain the need to take it into account if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u223	Amendment 10 refers to the terms of the restructuring of loans to individuals. Law 1533 lays down the conditions for such restructuring, but unfortunately it is stipulated that the restructuring ends on December 31, 2009, or last year. In addition, expanded possibilities for restructuring will make it easier for people who have mortgages and other consumers and cannot pay them off today. This restructuring enables them, along with the bank, to carry out a civilized restructuring. In addition, there are incentives for conscientious creditors to pay interest. And banks, according to this amendment, can give them a discount on the principal amount of debt. So given the social importance of this amendment, the fact that today the problem of so-called bad loans in commercial banks' portfolios is extremely acute to support all factions of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u224	Amendment No. 10 of the People’s Deputies of Poluniev deals with the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:57:14]] For 176 No correction supported. Amendment No. 11 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Please specify the arguments for the variance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u225	Well, the same arguments as for the previous amendments of Deputy Carmazin: this amendment does not apply to the subject matter of the law. The committee recommends that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u226	Amendment No. 11 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:57:49]] For-27 Not supported. Amendments to the 12th People's Deputy of Carmazin. There is a need to argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u227	No, there isn't. This is the same argument as the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u228	Amendment No. 12 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:58:16]] For-27 Correction not supported. Thus, the honourable colleagues, none of the amendments proposed for second reading, are supported by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The committee proposes that the draft law be adopted in the second reading. The proposal for a committee to adopt a second reading of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on coping with the negative effects of the financial crisis]] [[Registration number 5378]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:59:04]] For-43 The bill is not supported. It's rejected. Any suggestions from another committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u229	Can not open message
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u230	There's an offer to re-send the second reading. The proposal to re-read draft Law 5378 is based on a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:59:42]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we are now returning to questions that have not been previously supported. A draft Order on Demchenk's release from office as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Master of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2605]] As reported by Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Committee on Justice considered this issue and rejected its introduction to the Supreme Council. For example, the Ukrainian national deputy Portnow suggested that we first consider how Mr. Handurin, the first deputy head of the household court, and then turn to the question of Demchenk’s release. So yesterday, the committee on this issue did not make a decision. And I'm going to remind you that we have draft decisions that have been made before and have also not been supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u232	The draft order for the release of Demchenk from the post of judge of the Supreme Court of Master is put to the vote. [[Registration number 2605]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:01:25]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Next question. The next question is the 2010 Memorial and Jubilee Decision. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please. () [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons of vote? Please sign up for the reasons for the vote. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u233	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u234	“Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I'd like you to understand what's going on. The third year, I emphasize, the third year a person is retired, it can't be that he's the head of the Supreme Economic Court, and he can't be the judge. He's 68 years old. 65 years is defined by the Constitution as the term of office of a judge. Any statement that there is no law on the order of appointment does not correspond to reality. An article that states that in the absence of a headship, the first deputy or senior judge acts. It was not annulled by the Constitutional Court. That's why, in my opinion, public funds are being disbursed in a particularly large way. Because there's a payout, a maintenance of this person's equipment, who's been retired for the third year. That's why I'm surprised at the position of individual factions in Parliament, namely: factions of Communists and “Regions”, which are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u235	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, we are also surprised by the position of the BUT faction, when a completely non-political law, a law aimed at getting the country out of the crisis, was considered by the former, which Mr. Poloneyev introduced – one of the best financiers and bankers, the economists of the country, the ideologies of the economic programmes of Yulia Timoshenko, and the BUT faction collapsed. What is the solution to the crisis if you have failed your law, the best, the most intelligent person? Earlier, they had decided to consider a reduced programme, as the mass of bills was crucial. No, they're fidgeting for some kind of policy again, and so on. The Supreme Council always makes the right decisions. If something's wrong, she'll adjust it later. You're absolutely right, Alexander Vladimirovic, you've put the bill next on the agenda. And maybe we should stop this political mess.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u237	Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u238	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Filenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mikola Vasilovich, we're talking about sown, you're talking about honey. I'm not going to talk about "Criminal" right now, and I'm going to talk specifically about Judge Danilenko, I'm sorry, Demchenka. “The Supreme Council can do anything,” said one of the heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What we said to him was, "Everything but within the Rules and Competence." I say that the Supreme Council, thanks to the efforts of the Party of Regions and Communists, does not fulfil its constitutional duty, is not the guarantor of the Constitution in part of its own competence. You give political bribes to judges in such a way that it is illegal to violate the Constitution and it is your traditional practice to hold the judge you need in your position. That's a statement of the fact that you're doing with the judiciary and we're even wondering why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u239	Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u240	I am surprised by the hypocrisy and cynicism of previous speakers on this issue. Everyone knows that in Ukraine, there is now no law in Ukraine that can legitimately appoint judges. But our great desire to administer the judicial system by hand and to manually appoint judges to the post. There is a bill prepared by the Justice Committee on the appointment of judges to the administration, namely, amendments to the law on judicial administration. He is being held and not allowed to continue through the council of Ukrainian judges, through Mr. Onopenk, to appoint judges for the administration of those who please him. This injustice, this cynicism within the judiciary, must be stopped. Take the law first, then by law, and dismiss the judges, and appoint new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u241	Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u242	Please hand over Shustik to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u243	Helen Shustik, Yulia Timoshenko, deputy head of the Justice Committee. I'm really surprised by the cynicism of our colleagues. Because the Supreme Council and the Committee have been violating the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine for two years. Similarly, the forty - first article of the Law on Sudokus has not been reversed, and it clearly states that if there is no head, his duties are performed by the first intercessor, or judge, who is older than his age. Similarly, I am surprised that Vadim Koleschenko misinformed the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. That decision, which was put to the vote, was supported unanimously by the committee, and it was signed, in fact, by all representatives of Parliament, not by one faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block". Today, we have seen who is really interested in real justice in Ukraine and who wants to decide on narrow party and narrow business interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u244	The vote has been completed. Please report to the People's Deputy Kolesnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, I don't understand where the committee was before this. But I'm going to remind you of what I said under the transcript. That there was no support for that question at the committee meeting yesterday. But there's a resolution in the hall that's been around for about six months. So please listen, not misinformation society. That's the first one. And second. Today, there is no law that allows judges to be appointed to administrative positions. So there's a theoretical problem that we have to solve quickly in the Supreme Council. But for now, we don't have any legislation that's already been supported. So let's work on creating a law rather than laying pins on each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u246	The draft decree on commemorative dates, the Jubilee 2010 registration number 5413, is being announced for consideration. Reported to the chairman of the Yavorowski Committee, Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u247	Honourable parliamentarians of Ukraine, our constituents! This document, which has been processed for almost six months, I would like to remind you once again that the committee sent out factions to all heads of factions in June-months last year, and I would like to stress to each of the people's deputies personally. Once again, every national MP has a personal proposal to identify himself and make his proposals according to the decree, several presidential decrees, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers that regulate what kind of date should be the anniversary and so forth, to make their proposals. After that, we put on the Supreme Council website, once again, it's a request to do. We realize it was summer, it was difficult, it was vacations. In September-month we again and I from this rostrum again turned to factions and to every national deputy: honourable colleagues, give all your suggestions, the committee will look at them and one list, where it's very easy to reach certain compromises, so to speak, not to politicize them, we'll enter this marking of these dates. I understand that our nation can live without a budget, but at the same time, if we are a nation, if we are a people, we should still have certain dates that guide us, our complex history, and our modern history, and Soviet history, and even more ancient history. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality did this work, of course it wasn't easy, it wasn't simple, I want to say that it's not possible to satisfy everyone, of course, but I just want to finish my word, I want to say that there is everything here. Look, there's Covel and there's Lysichansk Luhansk district, there's Zaporozhya, there's Ostrog. [[Western Ukraine]] [[South-East Ukraine]] There is 65 years of victory over fascism, 20 years of acceptance by the Supreme Council of the Declaration. There are people of all kinds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u248	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u249	There are people of all kinds of professions that we define. It's also work, there's work, there's work, there's that, and that's the great people in the field of literature, history, science. As a result, the committee proposes to accept this draft decision and to accept it as a whole. Since it's the middle of February, consider that we still don't have this document, and that's why we're leaving it all to the government's judgment, rather, the Ministry of Culture. It's best if we take it as a decree, as a legislative act, and demonstrate our legislative will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u250	Let's write two in favour, two in pros, please. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u251	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I think we've talked about these proposals over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, I think I've sent out a lot of suggestions, and there's actually citizens at the reception, and there's letters, especially the city head of Lucca, because it's going to be 925 years old, 700 years old Covellus, 300 years old Lysician. And indeed, if you look at the list of those names, the famous names, and in the field of literature, culture, art, medicine, science, there are extremely important positions of those people who celebrated our Ukraine. In addition, people who are known not only in Ukraine are known in the world, who have become active in the cultures of other nations and who are practically cultured by other nations. It's a seemingly irrelevant decision, but together with studying these dates, we have a lot in history, in encyclopedias, a lot of mistakes, a lot of inaccuracies. And I know how hard it is to find the exact number here, the exact date and the name even. Because somehow people didn't pay attention to it. And that's the determination that we're going to return a lot of names to Ukrainian culture. And I want to thank really the committee that took these positions into account and I think we should take this decision as a whole. Because time is running out, it's already the middle of February, there's no time to waste. Once again, I ask you to vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u252	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u253	The honourable national deputies, the stated draft of the decree, are complex, considered proposals and opinions of representatives of various factions, and are outstanding dates, and Jubilee, both from the city, both from the East and from the West, and various outstanding historical figures, cultural actors, education, science. I think we need to support this decision, it's compromised, and so we're going to make it impossible to duplicate ourselves when, by every date or anniversary of an outstanding person, every individual MP makes his decision and there's a lot of it. We can solve this for 2010 in a single decision. Therefore, I propose that this decision be supported as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u254	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u255	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Of course, we should thank the Committee for its work. Because the Ukrainian people, of course, need to know when the Supreme Council of Ukraine has designated certain dates as holidays to be celebrated. And we understand that each date has some political subtext that relates to the upbringing of ideological, patriotic or labour traditions, historical traditions that unite our independent constituency State of Ukraine. However, we must note some of the sheer and inadequacy in this draft, which we are invited to vote on. Part of the dates are very controversial, some dates are incompatible with the ideology of our current young and independent Ukrainian State, which clearly requires further refinement. In doing so, to analyse this draft regulation from a territorial point of view, we gave you one date in Western Ukraine, we gave you in Eastern Ukraine -- it's wrong. I think it's a systemic error for the author of this draft order. Because in no case should we determine the holiday, working or combat dates that unite our people on a territorial basis. I think that the Committee will have to go back to considering this very important draft regulation and to put into place what is primarily a State that unites our nation, unites people and does not create resentment, and does not make imperfections in the system of patriotic labour and combat education of our young people, and in the memory of those who have given their lives for the establishment of our independent State. Therefore, in giving due tribute to the great and painstaking work of the committee that prepared the draft regulation, I believe that it should be returned to finalization because it is still raw and insufficient to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u256	Thank you, the discussion is over for your initiative a reduced procedure that does not provide for the performance of the second person from the faction. On your initiative. The discussion is concluded, and I am voting on the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2010. [[Registration number 5413]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:17:35]] For 210 The decision is not taken. For reasons of vote, please sign up. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, you have seen two of our colleagues fully supported, who have spoken, not only supported Kolisnichenko. Well, dear colleagues, at least you would say, "sharpness" is what "sharpness" is? What are some of the names you would like to see? You offered to mark Gorszkov, so you proposed, came to the committee only the day before yesterday, and Gorszkov has long been on our list. I'm not saying we have Ahmed Khan Sultan here! It's all there is to it! You just don't like this list, that's all! Isn't that how a politician can do it? Look, this is a document that needs to be documented! They say we found it. We cannot rush the Jubilee into Western Ukraine this year, and the following year it may be due to the dilapidation of the Jubilee. Is it possible today? We were given a donation, so it's in Eastern Ukraine. Because of the Jubilee, let's say the same Zaporozhye, we didn't deny it, and you didn't deny it to Gorsk, not to yours, to ours, twice as a hero. What else do you want from this, what to do, I don't know, the committee has to, what exactly, say! Like he used to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u258	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u259	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, yesterday Julia Vladimirovna told us how we have come out of the crisis, how well everyone is living. Well, maybe she's got a good office, in her family? The people don't feel it. But to make it really better, we have to deal with specific socio-economic problems. There are dozens of laws, from what we're talking about in this project, we're going to take it, we're not going to take it, it's not going to be better, it's not going to be cheaper, it's not going to be cheaper, the streets are not going to be cleared! There is a proposal to move forward in order of day and to address specific issues related to the improvement of social protection for people, with financial and economic problems related to the resolution of the crisis, etc. We stop, we focus completely on third-level issues. Well, it didn't go away -- and everyone, turned over the page, and moved on, yeah. The squad didn't notice the fighter's loss. We're moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u260	National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u261	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” The distinguished national deputies, the respected TV broadcasters, now the previous speaker from the Party of Regions in a fine Russian language demonstrated his essence, his ideology, and his misunderstanding of the importance of being prominent in the history of Ukraine, culture, art, the significance of this national idea in order to solve economic issues. Because without understanding the identity, the identity of Ukraine cannot be solved by the very basic and economic issue itself. I think that the person who runs the vote would have to understand and understand that Ukraine without personalities without these cultural actors would have been gone for a long time. There would be no modern development. So it's very sad and very bitter that those people who are going to be ideologies for the next few years feel the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u262	Bagraev Mikola Georgievich. Moisik Volodymir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u263	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u264	Thank you very much. Dear friends, there are some deputies who cannot understand the basic truth. That if they are in any way in pain, the State will be strong then and only when it stands on solid ideological stones, on its own history, on its own memory. But it's not so much cheap sugar that's important to people in these regions. It's how much sugar you can steal. I want to say that they would, I'm talking to people, because they won't understand it, from the regions that the earth, the memory is sacred and that the state will only be when it has its own memory. I'd like to remind you of Mickevich's words, which they read just as much as Chekov's. “The country will be strong, I quote literally, only out of respect for its predecessors, for its own cemeteries.” The regions don't understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u265	People's deputy Philenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u266	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u267	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. Well, I think in order to reconcile the situation, we need to compromise. I'm proposing to Mr. Yavorowski now to make some adjustments. We can make a good date -- 20 years from the day of the painless beat in Ukraine. This is to unite the East and the West. That's a very good offer, I think. We can enter a monthly anniversary, 10 years old, for the first time in street sweeps. Gentlemen! We can get to that level of conversation in this room if we go to study any law only from the point of view of salting the rest of the Ukrainian people. By your non-voting, you not only show disrespect for everything that is Ukrainian, but for the state that you've acquired, you're abusing the wealth that you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u268	A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "National Identity in Ukraine in Globalization of Challenges: Problems and Ways of Preservation" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 6064]] This is a question that needs to be decided, since it has been discussed before. He presents the issue of the Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u269	Dear Parliamentarians! Dear voters, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich! I propose on behalf of the committee, put it to the vote again. Well, the principle question is, we take shame on our heads. In these dates, there's absolutely everything, the whole spectrum that was. What other compromises? Say: Make an offer from the hall, which Jubilee is yet to be marked. And the committee won't deny it, please. But nobody's bringing anything, that's what it's all about. It's just stubbornness, ideological shortsightedness, if you want. I suggest we put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u270	Please, Vladimir Alexanderovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u271	You know there's been a hearing. I'm sure you'll vote against that, too. Take it, take it, I think it'll be over soon. You know, there were principles that mattered to the people, to the Ukrainian nation in a political sense, don't catch me in a political sense. All who live on this earth, regardless of their ethnic background, are Ukrainians. That's what I mean. Because of this, it was important to us today how we would save our faces. We won't surprise the world with our humpbacks, our shoes, or our Kremenchuk factory costumes, and we won't surprise anyone anytime soon. But our national face, our spiritual face -- that's what makes us the most interesting. Conducted hearings. These hearings took place in this room. They were indeed overcrowded, and so many were speaking. At all the presentations, on the suggestions made, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality developed these recommendations. They're long, they're long, they're probably 10-15 years old, because you can't do that in a day or two, let's say, and so on. We offered them to you. I'm asking you to support them. I don't know who's gonna have a hand not to support this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u272	Thank you. Since the question was discussed earlier, there will be no discussion. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "National Identity in Ukraine in Globalization Challenges: Problems and Ways of Preservation" is on the vote. [[Registration number 6064]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:28]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 3062]] Dear colleagues, we have here a letter from the chairman of the committee requesting that we postpone consideration of this matter. Is that a fair offer? I am voting on the committee head’s rightful proposal to move the matter to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:28:41]] For 277 The question has been moved. Moves to review laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Bank Act, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. Reported Deputy Secretary of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, representative of the Ukrainian President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Popov Igor Volodymyrovich. Please. One moment, please, I'm sorry. There is also a letter from the committee requesting that the consideration of the proposed issue be moved to a later date. Hears, yeah? National deputy Arjewitin thinks he hears the offer. The proposal to postpone the review of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine with the President's proposals is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0851]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:22]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich, report. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we will now decide with this law quite simply and quickly, because, in fact, the rules in force say that if this law has not been reviewed for so long, it has not been considered for several years now, then the hall can do so. In fact, the committee did not reach him, but the question here is more procedural than the essence of this law that we are going to talk about. I would like to remind you that the bill proposed for consideration was introduced by the President of Ukraine on July 2, 2006, which is three and a half years ago, and was then declared urgent. And the purpose of the bill was to amend legislation to create legal conditions for the National Bank to carry out its constitutional tasks: to strengthen the independence of the National Bank as a central bank of the State, a special central government. And one of the main provisions of the proposed changes was the establishment of an additional list of requirements for persons who might be members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine. In particular, such requirements included the inability to reconcile a member of the Board of the National Bank with the membership of political parties and the presence of a representative. This rule was aimed at strengthening the independence of the council as the governing body of the National Bank, which is responsible for the development of the basic principles of monetary policy, because we have this issue. For example, now out of 14 members of the Nazbank Council, half of seven are Ukrainians. At the time of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of the bill, however, the rule on the inability to take office as a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine for the presence of a representative mandate was deleted. And so the head of state applied the veto to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the National Bank of Ukraine Act, and proposed that paragraph 3 of the first chapter of the Act should be laid down in such a way that it would make it impossible for persons with a representative mandate to take office as members of the NBA Council. So essentially, this problem remains, and the Supreme Council still has to figure it out. However, it is important to note that on 8 July 2009, the President of Ukraine passed Bill 4787: amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, which was designed to introduce separate provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, in accordance with the commitments made by the Ukrainian side to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank on strengthening the institutional independence of the Bank's regulator. This document is more complex because it addresses a number of other, equally important, issues related to strengthening the independence and functioning of the National Bank of Ukraine. Moreover, its position regarding restrictions on members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine is improved, since it contains restrictions not only on persons with a representative mandate but also on persons in political positions: the position of head of the central or local executive body or who has held positions, unless one year has passed since the date of its discharge, or is a political party or a member of the governing body of the political party, is a leader or a member of the governing body, a legal person, a scientific institution, or has a significant share in such a legal person or entity of business activity. [[except for the National Bank]] Similar restrictions under the bill are also extended to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. So now there is a similar bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that deals more fully with the laws currently under consideration. In view of the loss of relevance, given that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is currently considering Bill 4787, which regulates the issue of restrictions for members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as a number of other issues that are essential for strengthening the independence of the bank regulator, the President of Ukraine believes that the need for approval of the proposed law has simply dropped. It would now be more useful to focus on the work and rapid adoption of Bill 4787. And so even if I understand that the committee can't prepare for consideration, now so quickly 4787, they still remain, and even after the inauguration, I'm sure the Supreme Council could look at those positions and whether or not they could be established in legislation. And that's why this bill that we're talking about right now -- 0851, I would just like to reject and focus on developing a new comprehensive bill that would take into account all the latest trends and our commitments to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u274	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u275	The honourable reporter, Mr. Igoru, concludes that the criteria are prescribed in such a way that the Board of the National Bank does not have representatives of the Supreme Council? So people who have a representative manatee have no right to join this council. Thus, the National Bank is out of control by the Ukrainian Parliament. I don't think that's entirely in line with European practice. Nevertheless, there must be control of Parliament, of the number and of the main financial authority of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u276	Thank you for asking. The President's position is that, of course, the Supreme Council has control functions, but in the case of direct membership of the National Bank's board, conflicts of interest can be avoided. And that's why the President in many of his pleadings and decisions advocates the independence of such bodies as the National Bank and therefore the admission of members of the Supreme Council to the Nazbank Council, or the membership of the tender committee, or other similar structures at the position of the President, would be inappropriate. Then, of course, the Supreme Council of Ukraine controls Natzbank as an organ, influences his policies, listens to reports, and constantly receives information, of course, naturally and necessarily.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u277	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, we really didn't consider this option on the committee, because it's out of date. There's a lot of suggestions from the people's deputies, including Carmazin, who put in a bill that applies to the National Bank, and that's why we wanted to look at this bill in the complex, especially 4787. So we ask him not to accept it today, to reject it, to focus, really, on 4787. So I wanted the reporter to ask him once again to point out that this topic is not being recorded, it's just being passed on to another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u279	Thank you for clarifying on behalf of the committee. Actually, once again, we're not talking about the essence of the bill right now, because we're not going to solve this problem in the room right now. We're actually talking about a procedural moment. For three and a half years, the Supreme Council has this law, and since we are preparing all matters for transfer, we would not want the procedural situation to be misunderstood. And so it's suggested that this bill be rejected, actually, as old as it is that it's out of date, and the Supreme Council will continue to work on this issue, and it will take that decision, which it will consider to be an appropriate or active coalition, a new coalition, in any case, most of the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u280	Thank you, Igor Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Members of the National Bank of Ukraine may be citizens of Ukraine who have a higher economic, financial or legal education, or a scientific degree in the field of economic, financial and or legal affairs, and have an experience of not less than 5 years in the legislative authorities or in the central authorities of the executive branch, which ensures the implementation and implementation of national financial, economic and legal policies in the banking institution or in the scientific field of financial, economic or legal work, and does not have a representative mandate. In this connection, paragraph 1.4, paragraph 3, is considered to be paragraph 2.5. The President of Ukraine's proposal is for a vote. [[13:39:59]] For-28 The proposal of the President of Ukraine is not supported. A vote is taken on the proposal to overcome the veto on the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. Registration number 0851. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:40:30.]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The bill has been repealed, the law has been repealed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure on the Definition of Subordination of Land Relations, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 27.07.2009, has been announced for consideration. The Deputy Head of the Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u281	Honorable Chairman of the Supreme Council! Honorable National Deputies attending the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 25 June 2009 the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Ukraine’s Master Procedural Code cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons: [[on the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs]] The law that came upon the signature states that disputes arising from land relations involving economic operators are recognized as subordinates to the courts. Article 2 of this Law defines the order of territorial jurisdiction in these matters. The placement of all, without exception, in disputes arising from land relations involving the economic activity subject to the jurisdiction of the commercial courts makes it worse, at the position of the President of Ukraine, for the position of the complainant in cases of illegality of decisions in force by the subject of the authority, since, according to part two of article 71 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, the obligation to prove the rightfulness of his decision to act is placed on the basis of an active omission if he denies an administrative appeal. It should also be noted that in administrative proceedings, unlike other types of judicial proceedings, there are cases where a court is obliged to go beyond the requirements of an administrative action if the remedy offered by the applicant is not sufficient to fully protect his rights, freedoms and interests. At the same time, in both civil and commercial courts, only those requirements of the dispute that the parties ask for and do not go beyond the requirements of the law. The proposed law, which came to the conclusion of the decision, would also reduce the content and scope of the rights of individuals, land subjects in the right to judicial protection, directly provided for in article 55 of the Constitution, the right to own land, the right to own, to exercise, to dispose of, to dispose of, in accordance with part two of article 14, part one of article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, article 22 of the Constitution does not fit. In order to avoid ambiguity in the application of the rules of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, as well as to avoid abuse when considering the subjectivity of disputes in land relations, the President of Ukraine proposes to use terminology and bring it into line with the terminology applied throughout the Code. On the basis of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes in the Ukrainian Law that the Ukrainian Code of Procedure should be incorporated into the Ukrainian Code of Procedure concerning the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs in the second paragraph of article 1, chapter one, in such an edition. Fifth. Cases arising from land relations in disputes between businesses and organizations other than disputes related to the jurisdiction of administrative courts. In the second paragraph of Article 2, chapter 1 of the first word “cases” in disputes arising from land relations involving economic operators, replace the words “referred to the jurisdiction of farm courts in disputes arising from land relations other than disputes referred to the jurisdiction of Ukraine’s administrative courts”. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the position of the President of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the position of the President of Ukraine on vetoing these laws has been aligned with that of both the courts of general jurisdiction and the courts of commerce. So please support the position of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u282	Any questions for the reporter? Nobody has any questions? Please sit down, Marina Ivanovna. The report is Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u283	Dear colleagues! The Honorable Presidium! The Committee on Justice considered the President's proposals on the principle: the power of argument is not in number, but in their weight. So the committee decided to take them into account essentially, but with the change proposed by the president. Because in some cases the proposals apply legal terminology and regulation of relations are inconsistent with the position of the current legislation of Ukraine. The committee's decision takes into account the legal position of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which considers it appropriate to take the President's proposals into account in the re-examination of the law. Thus, note the table, part of the first article 12, to supplement paragraph six with the following content: “The cases arising from land relations in disputes between enterprises and organizations, except those referred to in the jurisdiction of administrative courts.” The committee considered the proposal editorially. Since the term “enterprises and organizations ” is used in economic and procedural legislation as a subject of economic activity. Such proposals by the President are not consistent with the application of legal terminology. In addition, on November 17, the Ukraine Act was adopted in 2009 “To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine, which was supplemented by paragraph five of the First Article 12 of the Economic and Process Code in relation to what is necessary in the law, which is discussed in an editorial way, to take account of the positions noted and to supplement the provisions in the first part of article 12 of the Ukrainian Master and Process Code. [[on the fight against illegal takeover and takeover of an enterprise]] Drafting of the Committee part of the first article 12 should be supplemented by paragraph 6 of the following content: “In matters arising from land relations involving economic activity subjects”. [[Pay attention to the table]] [[in disputes]] The committee has taken into account the President’s editorial proposal and proposes part 8 of article 16 to read: “The cases in the disputes provided for in article 12, paragraph 6, of the Code are dealt with by the household court at the location of the objects in their section, with the exception of the cases provided for in part four of this article. At the same time, honourable colleagues, we have in our hands the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, who suggest that it is necessary to note that, given the requirements of the legislative technique in paragraphs 2-5 of section 2 of the Second Final Law, the corresponding reference should be to the sixth part of article 12 of the master-procedural Code of Ukraine. Signature: “Scissor”. The report is closed, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u284	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? Yes. Let's sign up, please. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u285	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I have a question, Valeriy Anatoliyovich, which is the essence of the observations made by the Legal Authority, because it is noted in our tablet that the Legal Authority has called for your suggestions with observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u286	Yes, it is written with notes, the comments of such content, they are editorial in that the links to links are inappropriate and therefore they suggest to refer to the second chapter in the End of Position, the corresponding reference should be paragraph six in the part, the corresponding reference, it is attached to the material, so it is read by me for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u287	Mishchenko Sergei Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u288	Thank you. I want to ask you the following, because there are a few questions in this room, you know, that this Law has been going on the Supreme Council for two and a half years now, and the raiding of the land exists today just because the President vetoed it. Why? Because right now your land, which is in one area, can be taken to court by a court decision in another area. So I'd like to ask you whether it remains within the jurisdiction of the administrative courts, their jurisdiction to deal with land issues, or whether it is under the jurisdiction of the farm courts to deal with land relations by the commercial courts. And the main one. whether the main motive for this bill remains that the courts should consider land disputes on the location of the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u289	That's a good question. I believe that the President's proposals and the main motive for vetoing were editorial regulations. But it stays in the code, and we propose to the committee to support the hall, and we suggest that in territoriality, and in fact, where there are landowners, i.e. enterprises and other business subjects, this is referred to as the jurisdiction of the administrative courts. Where there are public legal disputes, where there is a public authority, this remains the jurisdiction of the administrative courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u290	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u291	Please give the floor to the national MP Mishchenk Sergiya.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u292	He already asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u293	Well, then I'll ask you one more question. If we don't adopt this law as drafted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Justice, can you predict how these land disputes will be resolved? Will there again be raiders on earth, primarily people, who cannot defend their rights in judicial institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u294	You know, somewhere, it's not our authority to predict anything, but the legislative initiative is with you, and it requires us to normalize these issues. And really, if there's any court practice coming together, because we've made changes to the procedural law. I think with our changes, this will be avoided.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The first sentence is put to the vote. Ukraine. Please take the table. Is there a need to read?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u296	Yeah, everybody's got a chart, right? The President of Ukraine's first proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:52:08]] For-157. The decision is not taken. A vote is taken on the proposal by the committee to take the proposals of the President of Ukraine into account in another edition, which is presented by the committee. Please make up your mind. [[13:52:39]] For 339 Decision taken. The President of Ukraine's number two vote is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:53:02]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The offer is not supported. The second sentence of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote in the section of the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:53:29]] For the 320. Decision taken. So we got the law in the new edition. I now put to the vote in general “To amend the Ukrainian Code of Procedure for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of land affairs”. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:54:02]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, announcing. We've got six minutes, yeah. Dear colleagues, we have another question. We also have a letter from the profile committee about the transfer of its consideration. I think we have time to figure this out. I would like to ask the head of the profile committee, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko, if you would like to have your argument on the issue of the postponement of the Ukrainian Act on legal and regulatory acts of Ukraine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u297	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! There are three bills to embrace, as they say, three bills are 1343-1, 4332 and 4817 with the President's proposals. These observations were not submitted to the Scientific and Expert Management Committee by some, by two, but by one, they were given. But none of these bills are concluded by the committee. That's why he's here. These proposals have not been processed. I ask you to withdraw them from the vote for a further term. Why? Because the authors of these bills have been working for several years, such as on legislation, on this issue for several years. And now we can just not get the right number of votes. So I'm asking you to allow the committee to process all the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u298	The committee head's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:24]] For 302 Offer supported. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I just, I put it aside and I didn't see it, we missed one project. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Subordination of Social Payments and Proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5010]] Please report to the Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u299	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies and present in the Hall! Ukraine's Supreme Council adopted on 23 October 2009 the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the subjectivity of social payments cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of this. The Act amends the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice, according to which consideration of cases of disputes involving the purpose, calculation, recalculation, execution, granting, receiving pension payments, social benefits to insolvent citizens, payment of public social insurance and other social benefits, social services, assistance, protection, benefits, commodity May on, rations or financial compensation in lieu of them is based on the general courts and their consideration will be carried out in civil proceedings. At present, these disputes are also being tried by local general courts as administrative courts. Thus, today’s approach serves as a guarantee of the protection of the rights and freedoms of the subjects of a court of law, for in the exercise of the administrative judiciary itself, the court is given additional powers of administrative justice. Again, it's about looking at your own initiative, going beyond lawsuits, and having the right to a meeting of evidence, and the need for evidence, and so forth. Appropriately, the burden of proof in administrative matters rests on the subject of authority. Thus, with the law in force, citizens who apply to the court for social benefits will be deprived of significant guarantees for the protection of their rights, and the protection of their rights will be considerably complicated and narrowed. Thus the changes proposed by law do not conform to the standards of part three of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Moreover, the provisions of the law violate the uniformity of approaches to determining the competence of administrative courts to settle disputes by the participation of entities of authority, resulting in problems in practice and the delimitation of the competence of administrative and general courts and, as a result, a violation of the individual’s right to judicial protection. On the basis of what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 October 2009, the Act of Ukraine “To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine” on the subjectability of social pay matters to be rejected as a whole. Please support the position of the President of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine! These two laws, which have been passed by the President's veto on them in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are practically narrowing down the scope of the competence of the administrative courts, the administrative justice recently created in Ukraine. Please support the President's position and allow for the development and development of administrative justice in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u300	Any questions for the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m0.u301	No questions asked. Thank you. Have a seat, please. The proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the subjectivity of social payments is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5010]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:32]] For-21 The decision is not taken. The proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act “To Change Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine”, registration number 5010. [[on the subjectivity of social pay-related matters]] I'd like to make a statement. [[2:01:05]] For-162 The decision is not taken, the law is repealed. A break of 16 hours is announced. The morning plenary session is closed.
