ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:04]] They registered cards in the 408 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Labunski Angelika Viktorovna, Lissina Mikolia Pavlovich and Shamanova Valerija Viktorovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 19 to 22 October 2010. Four plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, and 62 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws and 16 regulations were passed, 21 bills were adopted on the basis of which 4 bills were sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 15 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. Dear colleagues, today our colleagues are present in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the Parliament of the Kingdom of Spain. Let us, on your behalf, welcome our colleagues and wish them a fruitful stay in our country and a vivid impression from the hospitable Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, declarations, messages, and so on. Members of the MP's factions, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Our internal and external policies are increasingly being implemented “the faster, the better”. For this reason, the old and wise principle of the ancient Romans is forgotten: “Hurry slowly. ” The apparent dissension took place in foreign policy — Russia’s total domination and the formalist of the European Union. Contact with Russia has entered a dynamic phase of operational decisions and a time of valuable action, they are located and will be in the epicenter of Ukraine's internal and external policies. Instead, in cooperation with Europe, which is formally the leading vector of our foreign policy, calls and declarations replace real work. Today, especially at the Ukraine-EU summit in November of this year, we are only planning to agree on a plan of action for the introduction of a visa-free regime, but the question is how long it will take to implement it. The most problematic is the reconciliation of positions on the free trade area. The Association Agreement was passed on to the 11th year. But, dear friends, we can and should be able to implement this agreement in the form of an approved order of the day association. This requires political will and resources. A new series of agreements has been signed from Russia last week. These documents, which have not yet dried ink, should be carefully analyzed, evaluated, and evaluated. The Supreme Council should not stand outside this process, particularly in such important issues as gas, such as the Ukrainian gas transport system. Let's say it's been six months since the signing of the so-called "hark treaties". It's time to conclude that how this barter, the gas fleet, has affected the country's economic situation, the welfare of its citizens. Relations with Russia should not be a thing in themselves, they should be institutionally integrated into the European context of development: in the ‘Ukraine-Russia-EU’ triangle, primarily in the energy sphere; in the ‘Ukraine-Russia-NATO’ triangle, in the area of security. The position on Russia must be determined by our Euro-integration goals. The very basis of our dialogue on European standards will ensure transparency and parity. This will be different from the culinary arrangements with Russia. But for us there is an unalterable transition to civilized rules of the game. Obviously, the insurmountability of our potentials is not the basis for unilateral concessions, a game in one gate. The algorithm for action for Ukraine has long been designed and successfully tested by our nations. First, our goals in the dialogue with the Russian Federation should be formulated through the prism of national interests and supported by adequate resources. Secondly, I would like to remind you of the phrase: “Countrys must be prepared for compromise of all issues that are not of vital importance to them.” Note that in Ukraine, cooperation with Russia is the most critical that can continue to harm its European integration. Therefore, the most promising is the development of Ukrainian-Russian cooperation, which will deepen relations with the EU of both our countries. In particular, an effective modernization and further exploitation of the Ukrainian GTS requires the participation of Russia and Europe. But it should be remembered that the domestic gas transport system provides transportation not only to foreign but also to domestic consumers. A few words about one of the most powerful spheres are humanitarian. The imbalance here is particularly noticeable. The Russians always set the tone. Again, humanitarian relations with Russia should be based on the legislative and legal standards of European society, then there will be no older and younger brothers. As a summary, I suggest that we hold separate parliamentary hearings on Ukraine’s relations with both Russia and the European Union in the near future. Our faction will make the right decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u3	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues! As you get acquainted with the information stream that has been hurled down on our heads since the end of the election campaign to the local councils and following the discussion, you are reluctant to recall the comments of the English writer Chesterton. Everyone wants to be informed honestly, impartially, truthfully and in full harmony with his views. In view of the fact that representatives of the 151st party participated in the election process and the remaining units remained in the winning process, the justification of the losers tended to be forging results, which had nothing to do with the actual situation. This was also noted by foreign observers, stressing that the elections had taken place in a free competitive atmosphere without any methods of influencing the will of voters. Most observers agreed on a sufficiently high level of election, openness and transparency. I therefore believe that today, thanks the voters in general and especially those who supported the Party of the Regions, would have trusted it with more than 36 per cent of its votes, noted the cohesive work of tens of thousands of members of the electoral commissions who have endured and held elections within the framework of the law, recognized that these elections have been a birthplace in the establishment of democracy in our State and have undergone far fewer violations than in 2006. We are pleased to note that, despite many of the problems that exist in our State, people trust the course of the President, the Government and the parliamentary majority, and this binds us to much. We understand that, after the first steps towards establishing an elementary order in the State, which has immediately affected the improvement of Ukrainian economic growth forecasts in the current year to five per cent, we are already obliged to proceed to the next pre-crisis level of GDP, to undertake a number of anti-corruption activities, to create an attractive investment climate, to embark on systematic social and economic and political reforms that, in turn, should provide the foundation for improving the well-being of people and to progressively eliminate such a shameful phenomenon as poverty. Without exaggeration, there is a great deal to be gained from this work by the Supreme Council, the deputy corps, in terms of legislative support for these reforms. It seems necessary for us, without delay, to fulfil the President's mandate to consider and adopt the Electoral Code, to complete work on such a complex and important document as the Tax Code, which is the basis of economic reforms, and thus to implement its decision and to establish a budget for the 11th year already based on that document. There is serious work to be done on the Customs Code, which will enable our business to effectively build its relations with international partners and integrate into the world economy. A package of anti-corruption laws, judicial and constitutional reform must be further developed. We are expected to improve the social bloc of laws. At the same time, major changes will take place with regard to the modernization of national energy, including the Ukrainian gas transport system, the improvement of the energy efficiency of our industries, the development of aviation, missile development, the development of new technologies, which will also require legislative regulation. The solution to these and many other urgent tasks must unite our constituency. I think the main challenge for us today is to move from war to peace. And it's a pleasure that in this room people who don't understand it are getting smaller and smaller. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinski. Next is Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Representatives of the media! Very little time will pass, and electoral headquarters will report their work to the party authorities, traditionally highlighting their tetanus efforts and problems caused by shameless opponents. Someone on the basis of the elections will demand positions, someone will collect dividends in a direct and portable sense of the word, someone will, until late, put on political auctions and try to convert their seasonal ratings, understanding in the depths of the soul that they have a special feature of sometimes blowing up like balloons. That's what we know, and that's what makes it clear. The problem is that all of this has a very distant bearing on the content of the complex, routine, and systematic work that happy chosen ones require the mission to represent the human community at the local level, to be at the root of local issues, to live and to work with their constituents every day. And for many, it's a problem, because landing on local lists of cities and areas of people who have no relation to these territories and never had, maybe flying by technology and being seen as an effective technology, but in fact, in most cases it's a normal manipulation, and if you're more open to voter lies. And here, try to deny that the provisions of the Elections Act, which some people have feared in their own time, have been removed, namely, that local party organizations, in order to have the right to nominate candidates to the relevant local councils, must have a certain period of their existence and their work in the territory concerned, be known to the inhabitants of the community, this position of electoral law was correct and must be restored by law. And the lattice around this, and now it becomes absolutely obvious, and it was raised to have, firstly, the ability to collect, under the telebrand of a television party led by a television leader of all kinds of defectors and conjunctors, and secondly, to delegate his Histians from Kiev to the local lists. If this is the case with real locality, I would stress that local self-government is rhetorical. The next lesson is this election. Many pointed out that the order of the day during this election campaign had been deliberately changed. What about the proposals for improving municipal governance, efficient use of municipal property, more simply, were the lighting in the village, the roads in the centre, and investment in the economy at the centre of the electoral controversy? Of course not. Why? And because these elections have become a continuation of the presidential campaign. And the themes of the presidency, of the parliamentary race – all the way to international politics – have risen beyond what is actually the task of local self-government. More often, it was these topics that were literally imposed by political leaders in Kiev on public opinion and were transferred to places. This is one of the reasons for this unprecedented negative potential for conflict during this electoral campaign. Conflict, which is actually a foreign to most of our citizens, but at the same time is a mobilizing technology of politicians. Another conclusion. Playing opposition and authority in local elections is harmful. And not just because there's no conservative or liberal way to clean up garbage from the streets, but there's no party sewerage. But also because the game is completely meaningless and is simply not sincere, looking at the repeated movement of officials in the local self - government system from the party to the party, depending on the primitive conjuncture. But it is not just a matter of morality and conscience. Speciality in the system of local self-government in countries that we call developed countries is that it attracts socially responsible people, for whom the job is a calling of the soul in places, is an active public and civil position, but there is no desire to gain or not to lose administrative office or to openly engage in manipulations with communal property, land, budgetary attachment. So a profound and systematic reform of local self-government is no longer theoretic thinking of the participants of the corresponding round tables and debates, it is no longer a question of theory, but an urgent need. Oh, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u8	Because without an effective European model of local self - government, state modernization, state-of-the-art seem unrealistic or simply paper schemes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u9	Andrew Kožemiakin, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Alexei will be next, yes. Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Your attention is on the statement of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and the Party of the Fatherland. The local elections that took place in Ukraine on October 31st clearly demonstrated that there was a system of usurpation by one political power in the country at all levels. Their goal is to establish an authoritarian regime and, as a result, to deprive the Ukrainian people of their right to choose their own power in the country. If even a superficial analysis of the so - called electoral process is made, the anticonstitutional date of the election is first announced. What the representatives of the Party of the Regions call free elections was actually a clearly planned and organized action to capture power in places. The authorities of all levels on the day of the vote, and now that the vote is being calculated, have done and are doing everything possible to block the participation of our political force, the “Fatherland” party, in the elections and to falsify the real choice of Ukrainian citizens. Instead of concentrating on all efforts and correcting the shortcomings of electoral legislation, the authorities have abandoned their forces to mobilize administrative resources and combat opposition. The Ministry's Department of the Ministry has created false... and the Justice Departments have created the false centers of our party, according to which the TVC has registered false lists. Despite the decisions of the courts, the authorities failed to fulfil their constitutional duty and deliberately excluded the “Fatherland” party from the electoral process. As a result of such actions, voters who supported our political power were deprived of their right of choice in the Lviv District Council, in the Lviv City Council, the Kyiv District Council; in the city councils of the cities of Kyiv District: Borispil, Brovary, Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, Fastov, Footwear; in the district councils of the Kyiv region: Boguslavski, Borispilski, Vyshgradski, Kyivovo-Swiatoszynski, Obukhivski, Stavishtanski, Fastustovski, Yagotinski. In Kirovograd region: in the Novoarchangelsky District Council, in the city council of Alexandria; in the city council of Donetsk There are no lists of “Fatherland” parties registered in the Bologna District Council and nominee candidates from our political power. In the Ternopil region, the city council of Ternopol registered lists of the illegal “Fatherland” clone. In the Luhansk region of “The Fatherland” was denied the right to participate in the elections of the Lugansk City Council and the four district councils in Lugansk. In all these places, the authorities have removed our political power from the election. That's why we think the results of the elections in these districts are falsified and they don't match the voter's will. Then we will demand a reelection of them and, by the way, a decision already registered, honourable Mr. Head, and therefore we demand that it be placed tomorrow, placed in the order of the day. More than 3,000 electoral district committees for unknown reasons did not include representatives from the “Fatherland” or were expelled from their ranks before the elections themselves. 221 candidates from our political power in the majority districts were removed from the electoral race. In addition, we all witnessed total abuse by printing ballots. There was widespread manipulation with unmotivated voting at home. As a result, the election was a complete mess and confusion. And now the authorities are doing everything they can to delay time and to falsify election results in individual constituencies. This is especially true of the city’s head, Kharkiv, where our political leader, Arsen Avakov, has been estimated to win, but he is trying to steal the victory. Kharkiv's results really reflect the voter's attitude toward the ruling party. They are willing to entrust their fate to the opposition, not to the political forces that are rapidly losing their position in Ukraine. So it's clear that the Party of Regions is going to unprecedented violations, openly criminal offenses to hide their fiascos in areas where they were considered favorites. In view of the full range of systematic violations of elective legislation against the cynical, targeted destruction of the principles of free democratic elections, the fact of gross violations of electoral legislation, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, insists: First. To call on the Attorney General on Friday to provide information about the events that unfolded on October 31. And the creation of a TSC to investigate the pressure and blocking of public authorities to participate in the electoral process, the political opposition and the involvement of state authorities in the electoral process and the falsification of citizens' will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u11	Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u12	Respectable colleagues, respected voters, local council elections have ended, but the problems that concern Ukrainian citizens are prices, tariffs, payroll, retirement age, the Tax Code and many others. And you and I, together with the newly elected MPs, starting with the village councils and the district councils, have to solve them. These elections have demonstrated that measures to establish the socio-economic order offered by the communists have found understanding and support for voters, regardless of who they have voted for. We therefore reiterate the need for a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. Instead of pulling the last kopecks out of our citizens' pockets, it is necessary to exercise political will and order the extraction and pricing of Ukrainian gas. Ukrainian gas should be channelled exclusively to enterprises of the JCC and should be assigned social status. The price of social gas should be formulated in terms of cost plus transport. And now it's sold for 67 dollars per thousand cubic meters, and the real price is about 30,000 per cube. Furthermore, Ukraine generates more electricity than it consumes. And there is a real opportunity to lower the price of electricity for the population and the thermalcommunergo enterprises, which in turn will reduce the tariffs on water and water. There is also a need to implement a smithy programme, where possible, for solid fuel, coal, alternative energy sources, and energy-saving technologies. Now a few words about the so-called pension reform. We are definitely against rising retirement age and the Communist faction will not vote in favour. To increase the retirement age when the standard of living falls and life expectancy decreases is immoral. The company also categorically opposes the introduction of two parallel pension systems, both cumulative and solidarity-based. To that end, there are no conditions in the country, and the attempt to implement the savings system means only one thing: a bourgeois State is trying to take responsibility for the pension of its citizens. There is a need to create jobs, pay decent wages to increase contributions to the Pension Fund. I can't help but focus on the problem that we have to deal with in the near future: the Tax Code. We support the progressive Tax Code, which should reduce financial pressure on the real economy, on domestic producers and thus contribute to the development and growth of production in the country. Those sectors that are strategically important to the country should receive benefits and preferences. We must protect our manufacturer from the expansion of goods from abroad. Today, there is a need to regulate and limit Ukraine's entry into WTO law, review the modalities of cooperation with IMF and abandon bonded loans. We are in favour of a social tax code that should moderate the appetites of the oligarchs. We insist on taxes on luxury real estate: yachts, planes, helicopters, jewels. We insist on the introduction of a progressive scale of taxation. Overheads should be overlayed. At the same time, we believe it is necessary to reduce to 10 per cent the income tax on citizens whose annual income does not exceed 30,000 bracelets. We believe that the new Tax Code should provide tax breaks for small and medium-sized enterprises that will create jobs. We are confident that local budgets have been filled, that local budgets have been funded to fill local budgets, that social, economic programmes in the regions should be financed, that taxes should be paid at the place of production rather than at the place of registration of the firm, somewhere off-shore. This is only part of the problems that need to be addressed without delay. I hope that the electoral passions remain behind, and in front of them are the working wakes. And our party, the Communist Party, will do everything in its power to live up to the promises that people made during the elections. We are far from idealizing the situation that occurred during the electoral campaign, especially on the day of the vote. Obviously, in many regions, electoral commissions have simply not been prepared to ensure the right of citizens to express their will, and this has become one of the reasons why there has been a record low rate of voter turnout in the current elections. [[I'm sorry.]] There have been direct violations in the calculation of the results of the vote. Despite criticism by the President and statements by the leaders of the majority, the use of administrative resources has continued. And the last. The political forces, which have made their political credo populism and demagogy, have by no means suffered a devastating defeat in these elections. Elections to local councils have, in fact, marked the end of the orange era. However, Ukrainian society faced a new threat — ethnic and caveatial nationalism. Nationalist parties today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u14	Nationalist parties are speculating on today. Citizens. They feel that it is an easy way to solve any problem. We know where this road leads and what tragedy the victory of the Nazis is for the people. Communists call for political partners, more than ever, to approach the formation of a coalition on the ground in local councils. Nazism must not become the dominant force in Ukraine. We are ready to negotiate a sustainable political majority on all levels. We believe that the political coalition that took place today in Parliament has proved its effectiveness and should work on the ground. Only in this case will we be able to respond effectively to the situation in the country, ensure sustainable economic development and guarantee better living conditions for citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear national deputies, the factions authorized by the factions have been completed. As to the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask you to prepare appropriate assignments. With regard to the offer of a parliamentary hearing by Mikolia Martinenko Please make appropriate suggestions. We'll look at them, right, for the next session. Regarding the offer from the BUT faction to consider a decision not to accept an election. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there is one right in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for valid legislation. If the court recognizes elections in one area or another as not taking place, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will decide to hold an election there. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has no more rights in this regard. Regarding the proposal to listen to information from the Attorney General of Ukraine. I've sent the appropriate motions to the committee. Please let the committee decide on the basis of Rule 240. And with regard to the interim commission of inquiry to examine the conclusions of the electoral campaign and its own vote, I ask the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this issue and to make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can bring it up to date. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issues set out in the November 2nd schedule. May I have your attention, please? We need to look now at groups of draft laws for their inclusion in the agenda so that the committees can ensure that they are prepared for first-reading. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[concerning the reformation and issue of a duplicate permit]] [[Registration number 7187]] [[government]] [[10:32:19]] For 231 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. [[concerning the licensing of wholesale sugar trade]] [[Registration number 7195]] [[government]] [[10:32:55]] For 232 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending Chapter I of the Act on the Finality of Ukraine, on the amendment to section XI, paragraph 1, of the Act on the Safety and Quality of Food, on the implementation in agro-food markets of domestic production and slaughter. Registration number 7136, government. [[10:33:40]] For 236 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act "On Professional Creative Workers and Creative Associations" on the predominant right of creative associations to make a contract for renting public or municipal property. Registration number, we're putting this issue in order of the day. Take it off the vote. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! It is indeed a very good law that allows creative workers, creative associations to secure their rental rights. Very good government law, I repeat. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as it turned out yesterday afternoon, there are technical mistakes in this law. Can you imagine that this table right here is going to have the norm to take away the creative community of property at all? I gave you information. It turns out it's a technical error. They're offering out of the voice. I object. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let them pass the normal text literally in the shortest days so that we don't do anything stupid. This will literally confuse all creative workers today. As a result, let them pass the normal text without error, we will accept it and vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! But the point is that we're just putting it into the agenda, we're not looking at it yet. And the committee in preparation for the first reading edits everything together with the government. So I can't see the problem, please agree to the inclusion in the agenda, registration number 7171. [[government]] Please vote. [[10:35:45]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the bill amending certain legislation on intellectual property. [[Registration number 7205]] [[government]] Please vote. [[10:36:20]] For 235 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[on transformation, issue of duplicates, cancellation of documents of a permissive nature]] [[Registration number 7176]] [[government]] Please vote. [[10:36:57]] For 237 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on guarantees and compensations in service missions]] [[Registration number 7183]] [[Once again, it's government.]] [[10:37:32]] For 240 Decision taken. I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 7144]] [[government]] [[10:38:00]] For 248 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on "Agriculture" and "Affordable Papers and Stock Markets" on disclosure of information in the stock market. [[Registration number 7106]] [[government]] [[10:38:35]] For 239. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. [[Registration number 7107]] [[government]] [[10:39:06]] For 242 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[Registration number 7280]] [[government]] [[10:39:38]] For 239. Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Tourism Act of Ukraine is put to the vote on the obligation to establish categories for tourism infrastructure objects. [[Registration number 7293]] [[MP]] The author is the national deputy of Zac. [[10:40:16]] For 235 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Foreign Economics Act of National Deputy Gregory Kaletnik. [[on the sale of allowances at auctions]] [[Registration number 7230]] [[MP]] Please vote. [[10:40:53]] For 235 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the issue of bonds by international financial institutions]] Project of the People's Deputy Poluniev. [[Registration number 7258]] Please vote. [[10:41:28]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now we need to consider two laws in the re-reading mode. I am announcing the draft Act amending article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[concerning adoption]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. Please, calm down! I'm voting on the proposal. This is a rereading of the first reading. [[10:42:04]] For 206 Decision taken. Let us turn to this question, fellow believers. The reporter is Eugene Suslov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The draft Ukrainian Law “On Amendments and Supplements to Article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code” is submitted for re-reading by the National Deputies - Members of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of June 1, 2010. [[concerning adoption]] [[Registration number 4313]] [[Registration number 2303-6]] The committee at its meeting on 7 July 2010 revised the bill in line with the main remarks made by the National MPs at the plenary and in line with the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights issues. The bill proposes to temporarily prohibit the adoption of Ukrainian orphans and children deprived of parental care by the citizens of those countries with which Ukraine has not yet entered into co-operation agreements on adoption, except in cases where the citizens concerned are related to the child or are married to the father or the mother of the child, as well as to persons without citizenship. The ban is exclusively temporary and is aimed at strengthening the protection of the rights of Ukrainian children who have been adopted abroad. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, are confident that the adoption of the bill will accelerate Ukraine's conclusion of international agreements on co-operation with those major countries whose citizens are the largest number of adopted children in Ukraine. These international conditions will address all aspects of international adoption: the right to adopt, the citizenship of adopted children, the obligation to inform about the living conditions of adopted children, the right of officials of Ukraine to have physical access to adopted children, and a number of other issues. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[concerning adoption]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u20	consider in the first reading and accept as a basis. The committee relies on the support of the people’s deputies in upholding the rights of our children, regardless of their party assignment. I want to point out that in 18 years, we've become 6 million less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi, microphone, please, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Of course, this bill needs to be supported. I would like to remind you that this bill and the very idea, whether the story of its writing is based on the numerous references of our citizens to the human rights authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the letters that came to our address with you about it. What happens is when, from Ukraine, and not only from Ukraine and Russia, children are being taken out of Belarus without having to. We have no consular conclusions as to how the child feels and how the child continues to move and reside in one territory or another. And I want to make your point that this is, really, as the reporter said, a temporary measure. We must work together to ensure that the countries with which we have diplomatic relations sign such agreements with us on legal adoption procedures and standards, so that we have the assurance and tranquillity that there are children there in good hands and there would be no disgraceful cases that we see on television screens with, for example, the same sufficient democratic United States of America. I think we need to support the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports and Tourism and adopt this bill as a basis, although the bill is very short and contains one norm. If the committee had made an offer to accept it as a whole as a bill, it would also be normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u23	Just a minute. Ruslan Knazevitch, then Katerina Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u24	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I do hope that, in fact, the newly speaking colleague has given a reasoned position that will be supported by his colleagues by the faction. Because, in fact, the history of this bill is that it was postponed several times for the very reason that the Party of Regions and colleagues of the former coalition did not vote for it. Moreover, there is great suspicion that this was done by accident. Because we know that there are serious violations in this area that are already known far beyond Ukraine. Someone's doing a great job on this. And if nobody knows about it in Ukraine, the whole world knows about it, because we are in one of the first places in Europe, including the illegal adoption of children abroad. And that's true, what Jaroslav Mikhailovich said, I fully support him. As Ukrainians, it is our turn to have the right to adopt, and at the same time, they are denied the benefit of those people who, when adopting a child, take her abroad, and what happens to this Ukrainian little citizen, no one knows. In fact, a lot of obscene things happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u26	So I would still very much ask that we not be exclusively vocal in our speeches, but that we actively support the voting of the entire session room. I'm convinced it should be three hundred votes away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u27	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u28	I want to say to the previous speaker that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, even as part of the coalition, voted in favour of the bill when we considered it last time. We will still vote in favour of this bill today, because it makes international adoption standards more harsh. At the same time, I want to say on behalf of the faction that we need to figure out what it feels like to have children adopted abroad, whether they're alive, how these kids feel. I would even like to give examples of the adoption of international adoptive parents, grandparents, from the Hersonian Children’s House. That is why we need to accept only the first reading and make the second reading more violent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u30	To make the standards even more harsh for the adoptives of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u31	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that Parliament is not returning to this topic for the first year, and we must have a clear strategy here and act perfectly. I remember discussing for a few years, and I am glad that my colleagues in various factions supported the bill, and we forbade adoption of our children to nonmarriage aliens. We then took the first step, although I listened to my address and the address of my colleagues from the committee -- from the Party of Regions, from Our Ukraine -- that we're doing something terrible. But now we have to take the next step, and it is very important in this bill. In fact, we don't control what happens to our children abroad, because on the one hand, we didn't ratify the Hague International Convention on Adoption, and on the other hand, unfortunately, the government and the ministry don't act actively in part of interstate agreements, so there are two ways. And I think that by this bill we encourage the authorities to more actively sign interstate agreements, and the law is very clear. And if we have signed an interstate agreement with a country, we allow families to adopt our children and control the child’s fate. If the interstate agreement is not signed, sorry we can't control the fate of the child then adoption doesn't happen. So I would like us, friends, here, to protect the fate of our children, their future and their security not only in Ukraine, but beyond. I therefore propose to vote in favour of this bill, as one that plays an extremely important role in ensuring that we, as Parliament, create conditions for the protection of our children, both in Ukraine and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. From Kabmin, please, who will it be? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want this political issue to be passed four times in the Supreme Council by a bill on the ratification of the Hague Convention, on the protection of children and on cooperation in the area of inter-State adoption. The Supreme Council did not support these bills once, we submitted a new ratification bill to the Cabinet of Ministers yesterday, which was submitted to the Supreme Council, and there are two ways in which there is a new ratification bill to address this issue. The first is to ratify the Hague Convention, ratified today by 81 countries in the world. The second is the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements. But no country with which we have interstate adoption today has such agreements. Such agreements will have to be ratified equally in the Supreme Council. That's two. If we adopt the law today, that means we'll stop interstate adoption tomorrow. And children with disabilities who have the right to be adopted will not be adopted. So there are two ways. The Supreme Council really needs to determine the way Ukraine is going today: the ratification of The Hague or the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements. In the meantime, interstate adoption in Ukraine will be no more. And the next. I want to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports have a unanimous opinion: The Hague Convention needs to be ratified. And I ask today to work on this law in terms of today, where the article “Conclusion of Intergovernmental Agreements” is. Let's go through the ratification process of the Hague Convention today. And this acceptance, ratification will normalize all issues in the area of inter-State adoption. But it had to be done five years ago. Four times in the Supreme Council, the issue was raised and not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. What are you talking about? It is proposed that the law in force make two additions to those who cannot be adoptive. They're citizens, all the time. That they are citizens and are constantly living in countries with which Ukraine has not entered into a co-operation agreement on adoption, except in cases where those citizens are related to a child or are married to the father or mother of the child. And one more point. They're non-citizens. Dear colleagues, we should go this way. To now adopt this bill as a basis, to invite the government to make a deal, not to talk, but to make a deal. When the deal is made, we ratify it, we eliminate the law in the first reading. So today there are no obstacles to accepting proposals coming from the government, let's make these proposals. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[concerning adoption]] [[Registration number 4313]] Please vote. [[10:55:30.]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! At the same time, there is a proposal to ask the committee to prepare this issue for consideration in the second reading of the reduced procedure and to make an appropriate agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for its ratification immediately for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of new standards and radio technologies]] This is also a rereading of the first reading. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:56:26]] For-174 Decision taken. Reporter - Head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Morocco Yuri Mikolayovich, please
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! The Transport and Communications Committee carried out the mandate of the Supreme Council and prepared for re-reading the text of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of new standards and radio technologies]] [[Registration number 2034]] This bill is a simplification of the mechanism for licensing activities and the use of radio frequency resources. The project is proposed to amend the Law on Telecommunications and Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine accordingly. Regrettably, the new text has not been able to eliminate the main contradiction of the bill. The Ministry of Finance continues to believe that its adoption will affect the income portion of the State budget. The losses amount to some 36 million bracelets. Given that its priorities were to introduce new technologies into the industry and facilitate access to the market for modern telecommunications services, the Profile Committee considered it possible to support the bill on first reading. In the light of these differences, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to determine their position under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I would like you to sign up for a discussion on this matter, if there is such a desire on the part of the National Deputies. Please put your name on the information board. Yes, dear colleagues, no one wants to participate in this discussion. The Committee's conclusion, I remind you, is to accept as a basis, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine as a basis. [[on the introduction of new standards and radio technologies]] [[Registration number 2034-d]] [[10:59:02]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, since we have already sent this bill for re-reading, we can no longer do so. Bill, rejected. [[Registration number 2034-d]] Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the activities of scientific parks. Registration number 6553. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:59:48]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the State Committee on Science, Innovation and Informatics of Chebotarov Valentin Pavlovich, co-rapporteur, deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Davimuk Stepan Antonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Last August, the Law on Science Parks was passed. But in order to put all the mechanisms in place to implement this law, it was necessary to make some changes to it, which would reveal the very technology behind the law. Thus, from December 10, 2009, the Economic Policy Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was commissioned to settle these issues. That is why you are proposing this law, which refines the individual positions of the basic law and standardizes the questions related to the location and role of both the scientific parks themselves and the partners of these scientific parks. There are also changes to article 4 of the Law on Scientific Parks, which gives certain preferences to both scientific parks and to the partners of these parks. In addition, a standard is introduced that allows rentals in scientific institutions and higher educational institutions to be granted under simplified procedures both by partners in science parks and by scientific parks themselves. This law opens the way for the work of sub-legislative acts that will provide a mechanism for the implementation of the law, and in our view, it will contribute to the greater cooperation of scientific institutions to the resolution of certain scientific projects. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u39	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Stepan Antonovich Davimuk is the deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u40	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, one of the most important directions for innovation is the creation in Ukraine of innovative infrastructures for technology parks, scientific parks, financial and credit funds, venture companies and so on, to ensure the competitiveness of the domestic economy. In 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the concept of a national innovation system, and in May 2008 it adopted the State Objective Program for the creation of innovative infrastructure in Ukraine for 2009-2013. In 2006, the Law on the Science Park “Kyivské polytechničních institute” was passed, and in 2009 a general Law on Science Parks was adopted. It has been a year since the adoption of this law, but the work of creating scientific parks is going too slowly. During this time, no scientific park was created. The main reason is that the preferences provided for in the law do not work. There are no such preferences in the draft Tax Code, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading. This mistake needs to be corrected. Small preferences are provided for scientific parks: exemption from the payment of the import duty of high-tech scientific equipment imported for the implementation of science park projects, granting the right to the basic scientific institution of the scientific park to rent to projectors a laboratory and a facility at the time of these projects. But they don't work today either. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Scientific Parks and the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, which aims to organize the economic activities of both the scientific parks themselves and their partners. The law specifies the definition of ownership entities that are provided with State support for the implementation of scientific park projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u41	Yes, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u42	and clarifying the position regarding the granting of the right to rent property of a higher education institution. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Science and Education considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u43	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, or from the rostrum, please. And Catherine Samuel will speak after Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The current law on scientific parks provides for blacks in white, state support for scientific parks. State support. But when it was said by the committee, when it came to functioning and creating scientific parks, it turns out that public support is often dense, if not always, by the way, is that the state declares that it supports scientific parks. You know, when it was said that one of the benefits, one of the benefits of the science park, is that it's possible to import high-tech equipment without a car, I thought that those countries that are actually doing scientific and technological progress that really want to have technologists moving around in these countries, not only do they not bet on imported duties, but they're still helping, sorry, in containers to get all sorts of things out so that they can be figured out, let's say, on the coast of Japan, well you know what I'm talking about, and then use it to do that. So the state at large is helping high-tech come to the country. So I think that those who have introduced this bill are right in that they need to be stimulated and assisted by the same Kiev, Kiev, technology as a science park, and all the others to use high technology without spending any money on it. And second moment. Well, logic itself suggests. If we want to create serious scientific centres, and in most cases they can be created on the basis of universities, universities, higher education institutions, it's just absurd and stupid to rent them in these higher educational institutions for themselves, to create a high-tech laboratory or high-tech production. It's absolutely the right bill. The “Block of Lithuania” faction, the People's Party, will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u45	Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u46	I fully support my previous colleague's speech, because we all remember what was going on in this room is the Kiev Politechnics Science Park Bill. When everything was practically cooled down. And only thanks personally to Mikhail Zaharovich Zgurovski, the fruitful work of the “Kyivki Politechnics” collective, this “Kyivska Politechnika” Science Park works today not only this one, but primarily this collective. Moreover, the Rector repeatedly appealed to the committee and invited all the leaders of the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, who were interested in failing to preserve our scientific and technological progress in the state to visit this scientific park and see how even without help the scientific park works. And so, of course, I think that by the time we read the second reading, we will definitely visit you, create such a group, and visit you, and get to know the results. I want to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this bill because it was the initiator of the adoption of the bill on science parks. And what I want to say is, if we don't create a condition today, stop talking about what we have in science, in scientific and technological progress, there's going to be a breakthrough someday. We all need to support this bill and unlock it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I support the ideology of my colleagues who have spoken and talked about that the tools and mechanisms needed to make innovation projects, and in particular one of the key projects such as the science park, work in Ukraine. At the same time, I'd like to make a number of serious warnings so that, while we're still working, we can make these projects work for science, for innovation, for Ukraine, not for possible abuses and for profit. I've already said that when we're friendly here, more specifically, our colleagues have spent most of the last two months issuing 24 million 700,000 more than one of the many structures that think about how to involve innovation projects for budget costs. So we gave 25 million, they write projects, they sit down, they drink coffee, but they don't have any dollars. We have a strange system of innovation. We want to develop innovation at the expense of the budget, and we don't have any amount of investment money involved. How many innovation committees do we have that I've already lost, who's doing this innovation? That's why I'm in this position. First of all, we need to rule out part 1 of Article 19, which takes away from Parliament the right to tax and customs. The Cabinet of Ministers cannot determine that they will enter Ukraine without a moment’s notice. Because 10 years ago, frozen chickens were imported and sold in an innovative park. That was the innovation. Another, the well - known Kiev innovation park traded or paid neither taxes nor duties. That's why I don't want it to be budgeted. Because the Academy of Sciences today beats up every penny, and we'll have the right to smoke and ore trade. So the Supreme Council in the Customs Code should clearly state that the high-tech innovations introduced for scientific parks are not based on myth. So it's the right of us, Parliament, to predict clearly what's not at stake here. In this law, I don't think you should do that. So I suggest that, between the first and the second readings, we balance this situation very clearly. And this is to support innovation, not support corruption schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Question completed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Legal and Scientific Authority also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of scientific parks. Registration number 6553. [[11:12:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. Casualty, please, for what? Gregory Kaletnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I thank you very much for including some of the bills, including the bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activity, in the opening of the session. [[7230]] [[on the sale of allowances at auctions]] This is about exporting grains. You know how important this question is today. I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee at two o'clock in the afternoon to address this issue in an emergency manner, and I'd like to include it for the afternoon session of today's session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision, the conclusion of scientific expertise. In accordance with the Rules, we have placed in the agenda and according to the Rules, when all these documents are available, we can consider at the next meeting, that is, at evening. Please, but for the committee's decision to be given to the deputies and to the conclusion of the scientific and scientific administration. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[concerning the definition of the term "standards"]] [[Registration number 6616]] Suggestion: To consider this question by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:14:33]] For 207 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Health, Riženko Sergey Anatoliyovich. Correspondent is Secretary of the Health Committee, Grigorovitch Lilia Stepanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act is developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Objective: To bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the commitments made by the State as part of its accession to the World Trade Organization, namely: to bring the term “standards” into line with the requirements of the World Trade Organization Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade. According to the Ukrainian Standardization of Standards Act, it is not mandatory. All mandatory requirements for food safety are set by sanitary, veterinary, and phytosanitary standards and regulations. Food labelling requirements are set by technical regulations that are not mandatory. The draft law was approved by the Supreme Council Committee on Health. Please support the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, Secretary of the Health Committee
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u54	Dear fellow national MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Health Affairs reviewed the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. In the course of the discussion, members of the committee noted the following. First, the adoption of the draft law will ensure Ukraine's compliance with international obligations in relation to its accession to the WTO, since, after ratification by the Supreme Council of the Protocol on Ukraine's Entry into the WTO, the requirements of an international treaty with all additions, including the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, become part of national legislation. Secondly, the proposed terminological change aligns the requirements of national legislation with one another, since the basic Ukrainian Standardization Act has the same definition as that given in the government bill. And thirdly, the adoption of this bill will remove duplication of functions of control bodies in the area of safety and quality of food, namely between the State and the Ministry of Health. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Although if there are no warnings, the bill can be adopted immediately and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, why did I ask for your word? This bill was also discussed by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The point is that the main purpose of this bill is, I want to support a colleague from a profile committee, which can be accepted in general, of course, but the main idea is not only to remove technical barriers to trade and to bring our standards requirements into line with the WTO requirements. No, the point is that if we, for example, use standards in terms of, for example, the name of the product, when packing this product, marking or labelling. labelling procedures are not required for the safety of food products that are determined by sanitary measures, so this bill certainly needs to be supported not only in the first reading but also in general as a bill, because it is short. Once again, he introduces one. One change, one note. And the second thing I wanted to say. These visits to the polling stations have shown how acute the problem of making our national standards and metrology more stringent is now. The point is that this problem now poses a threat to our health, to the health of our citizens, to human health, so we must take into account the fact that this bill, in addition to bringing technical standards to the requirements of the World Trade Organization, aims to increase the responsibility of business subjects for quality of production and for the health of our citizens. I propose that this law be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u57	Katerina Vaschuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, it would be very good if it were as Jaroslav Suhi had just said. But read carefully. You're contradicting yourself. This bill specifies that the concept of “standards” does not include, does not include safety requirements for food products, which are determined by sanitary measures. It will be written that the product meets the standard, it is standard, but that does not mean that it is safe, that it can be eaten peacefully, that it is not harmful to our health. So I firmly oppose the adoption of this law as a whole. We need to think about how to make sure that we don't use this norm, that it is a standard, that it is no longer necessary, and that all of our apps will be filled with such a standard product that is far from safe to consume people in terms of food value and other requirements. Because today we have a lot of examples of people getting sick because we eat, we eat, we eat, we eat water, we eat food. So it's just the first reading. And we need to think very carefully about how to make these standards binding, and so that the standard of “standards” is reinforced by quality and security requirements. Otherwise we'll open up, we'll just make the market more accessible, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u59	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT – Fatherland”. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about it 20 years ago. You all remember the term “Country standard. ” State-of-the-art food, product, product. And this State Standard is still a Soviet period. I ask that you pay attention, especially to the faction of Communists. This was indeed a pattern of concern for health, for the safety of citizens of their state, and for those standards, Western countries were oriented. What do we now propose to introduce this standard? We propose instead of a clear definition of the standard of Ukraine, especially for food products, to introduce some form. Just think of the rules, instructions, and characteristics that are absolutely nonessential to and use, and these characteristics will be established by an authorized body, or one of the central authorities. It's very important and dangerous that this concept of the standard that is proposed will not have any requirements for food safety. I am surprised that the government has commissioned the Chief State Medic of Ukraine to submit this bill. He refers to the demands of the WTO. Ladies and gentlemen, for example, I was in favour of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO as soon as possible. But in this case it is simply a concession to the health of citizens, a concession to the formal rules of the world trading organization. Ukraine is not ready or able to take such steps. You all know the situation with food. The media already explicitly say that the most dangerous product is Ukrainian milk. And yet we are eliminating all requirements for food safety by following the proposal of the Chief State Health Officer to vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u61	Finish up, please. You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u63	Yeah, right now, one minute. Then. No, I can see everything. Yuri Carmazin, then Catherine Samuelk, then Easy, and we'll vote. Earlier, earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u65	No, I told you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering a bill of government that is so simple to ask us if it is very easy to answer the question of what its purpose is, the first is to make all standards in Ukraine optional -- once and twice, so that the standard does not set requirements for the safety of food products that are determined by sanitation institutions. That is, so that he doesn't specify any requirements for product safety at all. Because everything that comes after the adoption of this law will be bought at the store or anywhere, no one will be responsible for it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we took a wrong path with you when we began to adopt what is called “technical regulations” in the West. It takes nine months and a lot of money to develop and accept it. We haven't made them, we don't have them, and that's why our population is not protected today. So it was absolutely right for a colleague of Shevchuk to speak. I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u67	Catherine Samuel, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u68	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote against the bill, not only because the State Standard was the guarantor of security, but also because we are looking at: a standard document based on consensus. Next, it does not set out safety requirements for food. I want to speak to the high officials who are proposing to us to adopt this bill: are you the ones targeted by this bill to continue to destroy the people of Ukraine? Have we turned our nation into a wasteland that is no longer needed in Europe? Who will take care of the food security, the goods of our population? It is a shame that such people are working in the Ministry of Health, for this conclusion was drawn by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s profile committee. We have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u69	Oleg Lazko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko. I would like to take this opportunity to contact the first Deputy Minister of Health, Sergio Anatoliyovich. During the last month, I visited very many villages during the election campaign. In every village, peasants turn and complain about the absence of pharmaceuticals in FAPach. This is a huge problem today in a country where grandparents are forced to go to a resort for drugs. Because you invented in the Ministry licenses, prohibitions, restrictions that led to the failure to sell medicine, even the first need. I'm drawing your attention to your ministry and the government, please address this issue, this is an extremely important issue, especially for the villagers. Older people are deprived of access to the necessary drugs, forced to travel for three nine lands in order to buy a holiday or corrals. This is what we need to take care of, including the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Question completed. The Committee's conclusion: to accept the bill as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. At the same time, substantial comments were made during the discussion. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of draft law registration number 6616 amending article one of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[concerning the definition of the term “Standard”]] [[11:29:14]] For-173 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u72	Please. Region Party – 155, Block Timoshenko – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 14. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. Please vote. [[11:29:47]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on the change in duties on certain types of food products]] [[Registration number 7243]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[11:30:22]] For 178. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economy of Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Vitaly Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In order to guarantee food security and balance demand and supply in the food market, the government has developed a draft Ukrainian Food Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, which provides for a temporary derogation until 1 June 2011 for import duties on certain types of food products, such as milk and powder peaks, granules or other solid species, cream oil, potatoes, cereals and Greeks. So for the 2010-2011 marketing year, there is a need for inclusion in the full range of the needs of the population in the bread and bread products produced by the use of cereals, and the possibility of adding additional quantities of this product to the internal market. Based on the demand for the internal market and taking into account the need for provision at the end of the marketing period of the Greek transitional remnants in terms of the two-month need, it is necessary to fill in the market availability of this product for about 60,000 tonnes. The market for milk and milk products associated with the long - term trend in the reduction of cow’s head is quite problematic today. Even with sufficient resources to fill the internal market for potatoes in the current marketing season, consumer prices for this product are quite high. In order to balance the market, in order to prevent price increases, the government is proposing to make this decision. And so let's give you the opportunity if you need to fill the market at the expense of importing the relevant import product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u74	Thank you, too, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft Law amending Ukraine’s Customs Tariff, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill is based on the need to provide food security for Ukraine and to avoid a rapid rise in prices for certain types of socially significant products. The draft law provides for the reduction of import duties on milk and cream, cream oil, potatoes, cereals, and Greek to zero percent by 1 June 2011. The proposed reduction in tariff protection does not conflict with Ukraine’s obligations under the World Trade Organization and will contribute to Ukraine’s internal market for individual importers from countries that have traditionally failed to view Ukraine as a potential trading partner because of a high rate of import duty. At the same time, we consider it appropriate to note that the authors of the project do not provide information on the projected amounts of budget losses and additional revenues to the State budget that can be expected as a result of its adoption. There is also no clear justification for the need to apply zero rates rather than partial decreases in import duties to certain types of food products. Nor did the committee see any argument in favour of the fact that the anticipated introduction of zero import duty rates would have a significant negative impact on the economic situation of Ukrainian producers of the like product. During the discussion of the bill, the committee also noted that the proposed import duty rates had a temporary effect. However, it is not clear how much import duty rates for the goods concerned will operate after the expiry of their operation. So in this part of the bill, it needs legal work. In general, at a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u76	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u77	In general, it was decided to take the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff and to develop the second reading, taking into account the comments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u78	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u79	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party, Lithuanian Block. Dear colleagues, this is a case where I, as a national MP, cannot understand the government in its actions in relation to the agricultural sector of Ukraine, and this is definitely a harmful act. Those MPs who vote in the hall today by accident in favor of this terrible law are harmed by a domestic manufacturer. Just think for a moment, the village support budget is not being implemented today, it's practically not being implemented, literally, by a few percent. Instead of thinking about how to support our own production today, how do we preserve those remnants of cattle and cattle left behind, what does the government do? It will open its borders wide by removing import duties for milk and milk products, potatoes that no one buys in a village in Polissa, and they keep them every year, the potatoes, in the spring, and then they don't have anywhere to eat, and they ask one thing: Take them, find someone to buy us potatoes instead of organizing this cooking. What else are we going to open borders on, which farmers, whose states we're going to support, instead of our own manufacturer? I believe that the government, as an MP, should ask the question at its meeting: What counter did this law propose? Because besides damage not only to peasants, but also to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u80	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u81	The image of government and power in Ukraine as a whole will do nothing good. They will cut out the last cows, for our milk will be no use to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u82	Catherine Seminalic, Communist faction. Next thing you know, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u83	Anatoly Arkadyovich, he won't see it by June 1st, he won't see it. So we need to be very careful about those bills that you are working on. That's the first one. It's different. This is called “coming. ” The agricultural state itself, the powerful agrarian state in Europe, is buying non-tempered agricultural products. Third. We have a powerful dairy producer in the Genetics region, and he tells me: “Catherine Semimenovna, my milk is to be taken, because it is environmentally clean.” And he also said, in Belarus, we're going to buy the powder, and we're going to be dusting our babies. It really is. I want to tell you, instead of making a zero rate of duty, isn't it better to support those who have endured today and are animal farms that produce native milk? Wouldn't it be better to do that?Oh, my God! And what I want to tell you is, why did the bill on the zero rate import of shipbuilding equipment come to an end? Why didn't they cancel the zero bet for the trucks you're carrying, and you're spending tens of billions of dollars? I think the government needs to be responsible for these issues, and we need to keep the mark of an agrarian powerful state that produces clean organic products. Ukraine has always been famous for this. Where do we lead Ukraine? Where will this end, in the end?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u84	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I urge the government to stop today. I urge the government that the law that is now called Catherine Vaschuk say that, in principle, I rephrase it, this law should be renamed. It should be referred to as ‘the acquisition of a domestic farmer’. The previous laws are to destroy standards, destroy safety requirements, import everything in order. Now, think about it, lower import duties on milk, powdered cream, granules or other species, cream oil, potatoes, wheat and Greek to zero. It's not about getting together with the President right now, meeting with the government, accepting here, starting to discuss encouraging your own production. Consider how they are encouraged. The hero of Ukraine. In Nicholas, in 10 areas, he cultivates produce, tries to export, build 12 barges, break a criminal case against a human being. I am writing to the Attorney General's Office, saying: “You are ordering a foreign state, and specifically those people, the oligarchs who are even members of the State Duma of the Russian Federation.” And now you're continuing this line here to get these peasants. So you need to stimulate not the rape to sow, but the Greek to stimulate the living, how to stimulate the prices, because of the possibilities?Oh, my God! Nothing is funded by the government! Because of this, this law is totally criminal and cannot be voted for! I call on you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to initiate, you have the name People, a beautiful name, to initiate these questions that I have mentioned, including the persecution of Ukrainian heroes for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u86	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, there is no need to scream from the rostrum. There are no deaf people here, and everyone hears that this bill of sympathy won't be found in the hall. Why? We have a very bad experience with you. When the previous government allowed 2 million tons of meat to be imported with the same zeros. How did this end? A large dairy herd went under the knife. And there are areas in Western Ukraine where there are 15-20 cows left all over the region. I want to talk to you with someone else. You remember in this room, here, in these games, zero rates, as you and I reflected on the zero rate for the removal of the sunflower in order to allow us from Ukraine to take out the sunflower, it's going to do someone good. We stood with you without looking at what the hands were twisting, and Ukraine today is making sunflower oil first in the world. We circled Argentina, we circled Russia. We saved the sunflower, we saved the profits. What can be understood by this bill? The government wants to maintain a balance between the interests of the agricultural producer and the consumer. It's not the way out, it's not the way out. First. There should be a national preference for the agricultural producer. The other one. We need to get order on our customs immediately. Get rid of what's going on in there and how this whole thing goes down. And here the colleagues have already talked about it. I think the medics should say, for our children, what is powder -- milk, powdered cream? What kind of milk is there in this room that doesn't suck? What's in it? How does anyone know what kind of milk we're buying there? Is it made of powder? This bill of support in the hall will certainly not be found. The zero rate of import or export is a crime. The zero bet can only be placed if we are treated with the same attitude abroad. There is no such attitude. We can't accept this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u88	Oleg Easy, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u89	Thank you. For this law, I support the thoughts of colleagues, to vote. Dear Anatoly Arkadyovich, this law cannot be voted for, and it is not surprising at all, that a government that should support its own producer is in favour of the chemical production of foreign countries. Cats do not drink the milk that is sold in our stores, imported milk, and sausages do not eat either blood or lively, imported sausage, including many of our own. And you want it not to be that cats, but people don't eat anything anymore. So, of course, you can't vote for that. Instead, I would like to draw the government’s attention to the support of agriculture. The government budget for this year, after the APC support fund, provides billions of dollars, with an October 1 funding of 59 million. That's why we don't have our own cows, our own pork complexes, because you don't compensate people for the loans they take, you don't compensate for half the cost of building these complexes. And that's why we have 8 million milk deficits in the country. And you're a government instead of raising your own manufacturer, it feeds a foreign producer. And millions of Ukrainian peasants sit without work and without pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u90	Thank you. Sergei. Well, finish as much as you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u91	So the government has to take care of how to create jobs for peasants and enable them to get paid to level the demographics so that people don't go out and die in villages. This is what the government should care about, not how to feed imported goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u92	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u93	Sergei Shevchuk, “BUT – Fatherland”. This bill is good enough, good for states like Iceland. In Iceland, potatoes don't grow like in Ukraine, or in Greece, and so the zero rate for import duties is pretty normal. This bill is good for a territory like Greenland. There's no cows, there's no milk, and that's why we have to drive. Why our Ministry of Economics compared Ukraine to these territories and states, I don't understand. You know, friends, what's the difference between a majority and a minority? Most of the time, there are smart people in the minority and they're stupid. Most arithmetically, they're a little bit more. Some of those last ones went to the government and proposed such bills. It can't be accepted in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The Committee's conclusion: to accept the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. With this in mind, I am voting on the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Customs Tariff Act of Ukraine. [[on the change in duties on certain types of food products]] Registration number 7243. [[11:48:26]] For-183 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft Law, registration number 7243, for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote. [[11:48:51]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 168, “Timoshenko Block” – 0, yes, quietly please “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 1, Communists – 26, “Litvina Block” – 3, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues! Another bill is to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Registration number 6358. Let's look at it in a simplified procedure for a break if there's no objection. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[11:49:41]] For-200 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna. The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's Subcommittee, Coastal Irina Grigorovn.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u95	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Implementation of Decisions to Apply the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I must say, life has changed since we passed this law. [[It became effective in 2006]] And accordingly, we are now proposing to extend the concept of the decision given in this law, particularly by supplementing it, including the decision of the European Court of Human Rights to approve the conditions of a unilateral declaration that the Government of Ukraine has the right to express if it understands that it is dealing with a systemic problem. And then, without proving the case by the European Court of Human Rights, he can immediately express his wish that he understands that there is a problem in the state and can pay a certain amount of just satisfaction to the person so that the person gets the money without waiting for the European Court to decide. In addition, the draft law proposes to remove the obligation of the Ukrainian Government to send the applicant a copy of the original text of the European Court of Human Rights judgement in view of the fact that, in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights, the applicant receives a copy of the European Court’s decision directly from the European Court of Justice. Accordingly, the government is only doing double work, sending a second copy to the applicant. Moreover, all these decisions are public, they are published on the website of the European Court of Human Rights, and a concise presentation of the judgment of the European Court of Justice is published in the “Governmental Courier”, etc., and all necessary props are published in order to find this decision. In addition, it is proposed to include in the obligation of the State Executive Service if an amount is transferred to the deposit of the State Executive Service by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights to pay the applicant, to inform the applicant that such an amount is already on deposit, and accordingly that the applicant is required to provide the necessary props. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u96	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Justice of the Coastal Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u97	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, you will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Decisions and Applying the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (Registration No. 6358) (since 29 April 2010). Thus, the draft law is designed to improve legislation that regulates the implementation of decisions and the application of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The draft law provides for a series of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In particular, with a view to optimizing the work of the national representative body responsible for ensuring Ukraine's representation before the European Court of Justice, it is envisaged that there will be an increase in the time frame for implementing the decisions of the European Court of Justice, i.e. the three-day period will be changed to 10 days. This increase is completely justified, because in practice the three-day period is very short. The draft law has extended the concept of “decision”, as my co-rapporteur has already said, which proposes to understand the European Court of Justice's decision to approve the conditions of a unilateral declaration. The case is that the European Court of Justice has established a practice to which the State may refer to the European Court of Justice with a unilateral declaration for the purpose of settling the dispute. In such a declaration, the State shall determine the conditions for granting compensation to the applicant, in particular in matters relating to a particular systemic problem in the State, which is the cause of a large number of violations of the convention established by the European Court of Justice. If the European Court approves the conditions proposed by the State, it shall decide by which it deletes the application from the register of cases, that is, it shall conclude the case. The mechanism for closing the execution of the European Court of Justice ruling is also improving. The draft law provides that the grounds for closing the execution of the decision of the European Court of Justice are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u98	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u99	is not only confirmation of the cancellation of the amount of compensation but also confirmation that the other requirements set out in the resulting part of the decision have been met. Thus, the adoption of this draft law will eliminate the unconformity of the current legislation of Ukraine with the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, allowing for better enforcement of decisions by the European Court of Justice. The bill received a favorable response from the Supreme Court, other courts. He was also supported at a committee meeting on matters. on the issue of justice, on which it was decided to take it as a basis in the first reading. Therefore, in view of the above, I ask you to support the bill and to accept it as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u100	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this? Can he put the right decision to the vote? Who insists on the discussion? Don't insist. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I just wanted to point out that really in the materials we have proposals from different judicial institutions, particularly the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court makes a whole range of serious observations, that we should be correct in making decisions, and that means that, as a minimum between first and second readings, it would still be worth considering our experts' suggestions in court cases and. Well, as an example, I'm just going to give you a warning from the Supreme Court that the law removes the effective rule that the retractor is not being sent the original text. So imagine that, let's say when you're in court, you're going to have a brief lecture that you can't do anything about. So there's a lot of problems like this. I don't think they're ideologically principled, but nevertheless I think that the position of the Supreme Court, our Scientific and Experimental Authority, as expressed in the notes, we need to take into account in furthering the second reading in order to know that the interests of the state are protected, and still the interests of those people who are being summoned, because they are also our citizens and we need to take this into account. I would therefore like to point out that, between the first and second readings, the proposals of the Supreme Court and our experts should be seriously analysed and taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear fellow MPs! We have a law called “On the enforcement of decisions and the application of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights”. One of the principles of the European Court of Human Rights is accessibility. for justice and the duty to enforce court decisions. This makes it absolutely right to ask that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. Well, I wanted to pay attention by taking advantage of the opportunity and presence in this cabinet of deputy ministers, particularly justice, to ask: do they realize today in Minsk, do they realize in Minfin, or do they realize today in the government that we need to adopt another law that comes out of what I'm about to say? Our courts have reviewed 1 million 28 thousand lawsuits and have made the same number of decisions to protect children of war, or Ukrainian citizens, who fall under this law. The total cost they have to pay is one and a half billion dollars. To this day, no decisions have been made. So, does it even make sense if nothing is being done in the state, if the government does not ensure that decisions are being implemented and the trains are going, people are being deliberately marinated -- these are complaints in the Kirovograd area, these are complaints in the Odessa region, these are complaints all over Ukraine that apply for appeals? So I think we need to think about the government's overall commitment as being made on behalf of the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u104	My fellow Members, I am voting on the proposal: to adopt a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. [[Registration number 6358]] Please vote. [[11:59:27]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine is under consideration, Bill No. 5364. [[on the protection of the quality of domestic wine production and the strengthening of the fight against its falsification]] The author of the draft law of Montenegro. Can we, Alexander Mikolaiovich, under a reduced procedure? I would like to propose a brief consideration of this bill. Please vote. [[12:33:23]] For 155 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u106	We have yet to forget vacations when many have spent their vacations in the south of our country. But there are not only sea, but also areas in which grapes are produced, which make a wonderful drink — wine. But in recent years, the quality of wine has been a source of complaint. And it's not because someone's making a fake. I have to tell you, there are no great wine champions than legal wine. This is due to the fact that we are purchasing cheap wine, and this is where the correction of the situation depends only on the development of our own agricultural base, including grapes. In addition to wine and winery as such, we have the most powerful winemaking science in the country: this is also the Yaltic Magarac Institute, the alma mother of all CIS wineries, this is also the Odessa Institute of the Tairov, and science may be helping winemakers to perform their functions, and the quality of the drink was better. It is precisely in the interaction of winemakers and our domestic winemaking and winemaking science that the bill is the product of. The purpose of this bill. First of all, harmonization of Ukrainian legislation with European legislation on wine and winemaking. We are, as it were, moving forward, not waiting for the European Union to give us any conditions for amending legislation, but we will agree on it today. Improving the quality and competitiveness of domestic wine products. Protection of the rights of producers and consumers of wine products from counterfeit products.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u108	Elimination of technological errors, which were in the original, in the existing legislation, clarification of the terminology of grapes and wine, and harmonization of regulations based on the provisions of the Grapes and Vines Act. The bill was unanimously supported by the committee, as far as I know. The comments made during the discussion will undoubtedly be taken into account for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy subcommittee Ivan Ivanovich. There's no Sidekick? Please sign up for the performance. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u110	Of course, it's very nice to listen to a representative, I take it, of course, to winemakers who fight for quality of wine. And we need to fight not only for quality but also for competition, that is, for promotion and development. Because frankly, always by conversation and by law, which is supposed to contribute to the development of the guilty industry, is the first thing that I stress, first of all, is the lobbyist stuff. That's why I signed up for it, because I'm for the development of Ukrainian winemaking. I'm in favour of making Ukrainian products competitive in the world or at least competitive in Ukraine, because this is where we have to fight for quality right now. It says a lot about quality, but frankly, I have such an inner conviction that this is more about lobbying and promoting. I am not sure that this lobbying and promotion will improve the quality of wine production in Ukraine. Because here in this situation it has to be a real state program. We have to either make sure that Ukraine provides Ukrainian consumers with quality first-class products or just then provide the same quality first-class product only outside Ukraine. Because when we passed a law in this session hall that calls a cognac the thing made with aluminum and oakapple, I would like to stress once again that the tick needs to have enough in my head to do with Ukraine what the present authority is doing. In fact, the agrarian country, we had the largest areas planted with vines, and now we have every opportunity to make a breakthrough, but it has to take full responsibility for itself, and there's nothing to hide behind the lobbyist or other laws that develop, deepen, contribute, improve. These are laws about nothing. This calls for a full - time government program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u111	Ivan Ivanovich, from the committee, please give an opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations has considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Grapes as early as May this year. This bill is aimed at enhancing national competitiveness of wine products. The proposals, the changes that are here in this bill, are designed to improve the work in this sector and to regulate the varieties of grapes that are now available or produced in our country. That's why there's a proposal. In view of the fact that the issue of the bill had already come to light, it had long been decided to accept the proposal, with a proposal from the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u113	So you've got it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u114	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have concluded our consideration of the matter. The Committee's conclusion: to accept as a basis. The findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration are similar: they offer to be accepted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Law on Grapes and Grapes. [[on the protection of the quality of domestic wine production and the strengthening of the fight against its falsification]] [[Registration number 5364]] [[12:41:12]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 on the write-off of the financial assistance debt provided on a return basis to the Lugansk Training and Production Association of the Ukrainian Blind Association, at the expense of the Social Protection Fund, for the creation of workplaces for persons with disabilities. Registration number 6441. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[12:42:01]] For 207 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, co-rapporteur with the Committee on Budget Affairs, Yuri Alexandrovich Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u116	Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The draft law proposed to you for consideration aims to write off the debt of $250,000 in financial assistance provided on a reverse basis to the Luhansk Training and Production Association of the Ukrainian Blind Association on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities by amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2010. It should be noted that the U.S. Association of Blind People’s Education and Production of Lugansk has used the help received entirely for the purpose of creating jobs for disabled people by sight. However, in the context of the country's exit from the economic crisis, the Lugansk Educational and Production Union, like all companies of the Ukrainian Blind Society, has found itself in a very difficult financial position because of the difficulty in implementing its products on the market of similar products produced by other structures using a healthy workforce because of the need to maintain a branched non-industrial sphere, a deficit in the circulation costs. Because of the difficult circumstances, the Luhansk Education and Production Union of the UTS had no opportunity to repay the loan in December 2008 and had no prospect of its return in the future. The return of such an amount can only be made through the sale of basic funds, which will lead to a complete stop in the business, the disability will in sight be out of work, and their families will be out of livelihoods. Do we need this? Therefore, my fellow Members, I appeal to you with an acquittal and ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the bill on the basis and, in general, to take account of the budget committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u117	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich, too! Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Yuri Alexanderovich Baldwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u118	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The issue is clear, and the source is a social insurance fund for persons with disabilities. In this fund, over the past 10 months, 8.2 million grevens, and only 250,000 dollars are needed, so the question is clear with the sources. With regard to the drafting changes proposed by the Committee, they are set out in the draft, which has been handed out to you, they are not substantial, and it is suggested to insert two words somewhere, to remove three and to change the name. The committee voted in favour of 19 votes in favour. The letter of agreement with the signatures is also attached to our decision. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There was a suggestion by the rapporteurs that we should vote in our first reading. I think it's a very clear question. People have been fighting in the corridors for months now, asking for these unfortunate kopecks. Let us, however, support this organization and vote in general today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u121	Valentina Matthew, please microphone, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what are we offered? It's suggested that you write down the total amount of 250,000 bracelets that were used to create, think of jobs for people with disabilities by sight. The repayment deadline ended in December 2008. Of course, it will never be restored. And according to my colleagues speaking and talking about it, the financial assistance received was used for the purpose. So I'm proposing on behalf of our faction, the factions of the Communists to support this bill not only on the basis of a foundation, but to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u123	Uljana Mistpane, please, the BUT faction. Yes, please look at the card there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u124	I can see it's on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support this bill, because I am on our committee representing a subcommittee on disability issues, and I am joining a commission created by a ministry that distributes money. I know for a fact that money is used in the right way. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and to you and everyone else, I'm asking absolutely such a normal question that they never need the money if we go to, well, they're treated from a state's standpoint. I mean, the product that the company makes, if they had government orders for it. Then, of course, we wouldn't need the disabled to ask for more taxes, and this business is extremely powerful, and their products use demand. So it's a matter of state by state, making disabled people full of producers and allowing them to realize their products. Please vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u125	Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u126	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Of course, we have to support the bill as a whole, but I want to support the Ulya Mistpane People's Deputy. Who's faced work in the training and manufacturing associations of blind societies, and that's in every area, they have a huge problem with jobs. The number of immature people in Ukraine is over 300,000. These people are united in these societies, but usually their educational and manufacturing associations are not provided with work. They do primitive things, government orders usually don't. And a situation like Lugansk is, of course, in every area. That's why we have to ask them to keep orders, where possible, and to ensure the work of these educational and manufacturing associations. And I would also ask the committee where Peter Stepanovich Zibenko works to really study this problem and to promote the work of these associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Obviously, all those who spoke on this point are right. And we may need to assign a committee to look at the economic situation in general in enterprises where people are blind and may have made the only unified proposals, because we are here to solve this problem locally. I don't think there's any objection, and we protocolly formulate this commission to the committee, define two weeks to make general proposals on this issue. Well, let's take a closer look at the disabled who work. Dear colleagues, and such a proposal is, which has been made in the presentation, including Alexander Ephraim, which, taking into account the clarifications proposed by the Committee on Budget Affairs, is to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law. Is there no objection? So I'm voting right now on this proposal: on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft law amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 on the write-off of the debt for financial assistance provided on a return basis to the Luhansk Training and Production Association of the Ukrainian Blind Association on the basis of the funds of the Social Protection Fund for the creation of work places for disabled persons with disabilities, taking into account the budget proposals made by the Committee in the decision of the Committee. [[Registration number 6441]] Please vote. [[12:51:07]] For 327 Decision taken. So the law was passed. Now, honourable colleagues, your consideration of the draft Law on Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials is proposed. Here came an urgent offer, an urgent, persistent suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:51:45]] For 210 Dear colleagues, this law has 45 articles. If he had more than 100 articles, we would not have the right to consider it as a reduced procedure. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Valeriyovich Ljasko, and will also be the reporter for the presentation by Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. The reporter is Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And I hope that the proposal to consider an important bill aimed at combating corruption has not come from those who do not want to fight this corruption. You know, starting with the President, the head of government, the Supreme Council, everyone in our country has declared a desire to reform. They alone believe that all who talk about reforms are able to change the situation in the country. Everyone's talking about economic reform, about reform in other fields, but to my mind, the most important reform that the country needs is reform in the fight against corruption, because all evil is coming from here. And whatever great economic reforms we have made, but when the state of Ukraine is plagued by corruption from top to bottom, no reforms will help solve the economic problems that exist in the country. Because corruption is the main economic problem in a country where business is not interested in working publicly, because it is cheaper in the shadows to pay taxes than publicly pay taxes, because on the payroll, it has to pay taxes for two bracelets; when, for each reference, starting from the syllabus, from a medical commission, to the university, and for a place on the list to the Supreme Council party, you have to pay money. That's what our country's main problem is: corruption. Thus, the bill proposed by a group of authors is entitled “The Conflict of Interest in Public Officials. We propose that this bill introduce not only the declaration of revenue, but also the expenditure of public officials, the monitoring of the declaration they make. We establish a circle of objects that include the President, national deputies, prosecutors, judges, and other civil servants. In addition, a number of additional restrictions are placed on the use of the position and receiving the gift.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u129	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u130	The purpose of this law, as we hope, will be another step towards overcoming the pervasive corruption in our country. The conclusion is absolutely firm. I think 95 percent of the people in this room are dividing it. As long as corruption rules the country, no reforms will produce a positive result, all of this will be empty declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u131	Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill 4420-1 proposed for you is designed to meet the requirements of the UN Convention against Corruption, ratified by Ukraine on 1 January 2010. I would like to agree with all those estimates of such a disgraceful phenomenon for Ukraine as the corruption that occurred in the speech of the previous speaker. The only thing I would like to point out is that the proposed bill focuses only on one element of such an phenomenon as corruption, namely the conflict of interest and its prevention in public service. Unfortunately, for 20 years there is an independent Ukrainian state, there is a conflict of interest in us. For some reason, however, the Ukrainian authorities do not know that such a conflict exists. Hence, the official of today makes absolutely no obstacle to the decision to issue or not to grant licences to an enterprise owned by his wife or another relative. The official engages such an enterprise on a non-alternative basis for purchasing goods, jobs and services for public purposes, spending millions of dollars on such an enterprise irrevocably and without any responsibility. The proposed bill proposes to eliminate this phenomenon. To introduce a clear definition of conflict of interest, note that this is a contradiction between the private interests of a public official and his service obligations. The law also regulates more and more carefully, such an interesting, Ukrainian, specific Ukrainian phenomenon as the availability of gifts called gifts. By law, a separate chapter of this law, which is dedicated to preventing the public servant from getting wrong benefits, including gifts. The concept of improper convenience includes gifts and any other benefits received in the face of the requirements of public service law in connection with his service obligations. The law forbids receiving such gifts. I realize that the work will not be thrilled by such an innovation. But I would call on all the national MPs not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u134	Despite the "wants" of Ukrainian officials, take them away from such a trough as gifts. [[in quotes]] For the first time, by the way, in the 20 years that the Ukrainian State existed, the law also gave rise to additional restrictions on a public official who had already stopped the civil service. In particular, officials are prohibited from hiring employers for whom an employee has resolved matters in the course of his duties. Even after the end of their career, officials are forbidden to divulge the confidential information they have received, as well as to make representations of those on whom the clerk has handled matters in the field of service. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to listen to the profile committee's position and support this bill in the first reading. I realize that he may be imperfect, but we can work on his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u135	A member of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich, will report on the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u136	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Combating Corruption and Crime and the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by a draft Ukrainian Law on Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials. The law proposes the establishment of general principles and rules for the prevention and resolution of conflicts of interest that may arise in the activities of public officials in carrying out their duties, as well as responsibility for their violations. The purpose of the adoption of the Law is to consolidate the concept of conflict of interest at the legislative level, as well as to define rules for the prevention and resolution of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials. However, a review of the law on the status of public officials shows that most of the provisions of the bill do not take into account the specific legal status of the various categories of public officials. As a result, when the bill is adopted, much of its rules will remain declarative and will not be practical. A number of comments to the bill were made by the main scientific and expert management. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be rejected. As far as Bill 4420-1 is concerned. The purpose of the bill is to create an effective legal system in Ukraine that provides a basis for the prevention and prevention of corruption in the activities of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. In principle, it is new in this bill to introduce the term “conflict of interest”, which refers to the contradiction between the private interests of a public official and his service obligations, which may affect the objectivity and impartiality of the decision-making process, as well as the conduct or failure to act in the course of his service activity. Main scientific expertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u137	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u138	The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to reject the bill. However, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption supports the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on its first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Ruslan Knazević, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u140	Dear head, dear fellows! Well, frankly, these two bills combine what one reporter and the other said, this is another step or another possible step in the way of what we call, let's say, building a legal framework, the goal of which is to fight corruption, and most importantly, not even fighting, but creating conditions that make corruption impossible. And we're going to be honest, in fact, this includes maybe emotional steps, because we have this package of bills that was passed after the ratification of the International Convention, and which, unfortunately, was passed and actually became law, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine went into unprecedented things and during two ballots delayed the entry of laws into force. I mean, it never happened before, and it's probably never going to happen again. Why do I know that these laws will never become effective? What's more, I can honestly tell you, it's a great illusion to think that creating the most ideal legislative base will help fight corruption. No country has ever, frankly, been affected by the quality of corruption. If we want to. You know, we are now very often parasitic with the Georgian experience. Georgian evidence shows that in order to combat corruption, it is necessary to release all persons from their jobs, recruit new people, and pay them a normal, high wage. And now Georgia, which was among the last in the world to spread corruption, is now in the top ten countries with the lowest level of corruption. 94 percent of citizens in sociological surveys have publicly declared that they have never given or taken bribes in the last five years. Well, what else could be better, let's say, a witness in favor of this kind of action? You can normally regulate indefinitely, you can go down to the level of China, which provides for a higher level of punishment at the legislative level. But it doesn't work. There are shootings every week, and corruption is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u142	So he spreads his metastases. But without these bills, of course, there will be no progress. So if we don't accept them today, let's go back to taking into account the bill package that we have declared before the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u143	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u144	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know that corruption around the world is the worst evil for society, and that's why it doesn't make it possible to develop fully and economically in the country, and it's very slow to improve the standard of living and well-being of the people of Ukraine. Because of the particularly recent 5 years of the orange team of President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk, the patriot of Ukraine, who beat himself up, that he was a national patriot, the Ukrainians who helped him, in the last 5 years of his power, had been unleashed by a corruption mahogany in Ukraine. Why do I say that? But because we were convinced, but not just us parliamentarians, but also the entire people of Ukraine saw and here literally the day before yesterday in the elections and gave an assessment of this political power, particularly Victor Yushchenka, who is already the hero of Ukraine, the heroes of Ukraine, who are not even known to Ukraine, he rewarded them with Ukrainian heroes. This says, confirms all the corruption that patriot Victor Yushchenko practiced. So today I am convinced that these projects -- they have the right to life, but in the way that they are being considered today, submitted to Parliament, in my opinion, they need to be re-read today. And I believe that the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, on this issue, I believe he will break the back of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u145	You all have it, don't you? Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u146	That's why I believe we're about to help the President break this spine and put it in order. And what we're seeing today is that this is exactly the worst evil that's happened in the courts -- the corruption that's happening right now, and we're making order. And I think that's how we're going to do it in every field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u147	Valerius Beales, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As far as I can remember, 19 years of country independence -- and all 19 years of success in fighting corruption in our country. Perhaps it is time to move on to action, not to talk. We pass one anti-corruption law -- we postpone its action, we adopt another -- we postpone it again. And so from year to year. Ideology and these bills need to be accepted, and it's clear that they need to be voted on and adopted, but the main thing is that we need to act to make these laws work, and that's our main problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u149	Mikola Tomenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I support those who say that we are in the fight against corruption by means of a cunning Ukrainian way. We first passed the laws, then said we weren't going to do them until January 1st, and now we decided to transpose the same laws again. In doing so, it was very normal to be divided into two groups, virtually identical laws. So, first of all, well, it would just be right to allow us to act on those laws that we've already passed. The second alternative is to base any bill today, because there is no substantial ideological difference in either bill or another. Both were formed by our colleagues, who work in the mass on the Kaletnik Committee and who joined the work. Although I have a feeling that no bill will be adopted today, because everyone expects the President to submit, because he is ideologically in charge of fighting corruption in Ukraine and the MPs are not fighting corruption. Next thesis. In the local elections, we received one very dangerous thing that no one talks about. So, east of all sociological research, about 20 percent of the citizens said they were willing to sell their vote, well, both their soul and their heart, and their conscience for money. Who for 500 bucks, who for 100 bucks, and so on. And I think it's people who are honest pragmatists. Because a lot of people sold it, but they didn't say it. So it seems to me that this cynicism of human behavior is adequate because of what happens in power. If we don't take real steps to fight corruption, we're going to get to a situation where 50 percent of people are going to say that we don't have a difference, which party is going to pay for it, and we're going to vote for it. And we're going to get to a simple, well, critical point. That's why I think today would have to take that vote too. Yes, another danger, so-called selective fight against corruption. I remember, once, as an anecdotes, talking about how Czernovetsk went to Luzkov's house, which means that Moscow was all talking about it for about six months. Chernewicki said to Luzkov: “You know, I know there is a woman in your budget money, ” he says. And I have a son-in-law, so let us unite with our families and conquer.” This is what our law calls conflict of interest. In Moscow, there were famous events. I wonder when Chernewsky and his family will answer to the law. Even Russia, because of its political subjective circumstances, decided to deal with Moscow, let us deal with Kiev. So my proposal today is to vote on any bill and not wait for the President to write us a text. I am absolutely convinced that this kind of bill should be the bill of MPs, the Supreme Council, who should show an example of how to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to reject Bill 4420 and 4420-1 to adopt it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office proposes to reject two bills, such as those that do not meet the right requirements. Dear colleagues, I am voting first: the adoption of the draft Law on Conflict of Interest in Public Officials, registration number 4420, reported by Oleg Lazko. [[13:11:08]] For-60 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Block" – 32, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 0, non-fractional – 2. I now put to the vote the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 4420-1, the rules of professional ethics in public service and the prevention of conflict of interest. [[13:11:22]] 4420-1 Draft Law on Professional Ethics in Public Service and Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Is there no motive for a reduced procedure? [[13:11:49]] For 111 The decision is not taken. I'm going to put another motion to the vote to send Bills 4420 and 4420-1 for re-reading. On re-reading, please vote. [[13:12:20]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on State Financial Control Measures for Public Service. [[Registration number 4472]] The proposal is similar: consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:12:51]] For 201 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, co-rapporteur with the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Oleg Volodymyrovich Novikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill 4472 was adopted to comply with the requirements of the UN Convention against Corruption, which was ratified by Ukraine on 1 January 2010, and to develop the first anti-corruption package of laws that we have suspended and mentioned in the discussion of the previous issue. Indeed, this first package contains only a declaration of what is being put in place by the State Financial Control Mechanism of the Public Service. The Law 4472 makes it absolutely clear that the subjects of the procedure, the mechanisms, and the responsibility for the nondeclaration do not exist. It should be noted that this bill is ideological, it eventually changes the ideology of fighting corruption in Ukraine instead of running through the country councils and grabbing the hands of some middle and low-ranking officials. This bill introduces a completely different mechanism. The bill introduces a thorough declaration of income and expenditure for all Ukrainian public officials. That is, all public officials, starting with the deputies of local councils and ending with the President of Ukraine, should make declarations about their income and expenses. And not only their declarations, but also the declarations of their relatives. Finally, if we vote and adopt this law, the judge won't be able to come to the Mercedes and say it's Mercedes of his mother-in-law, or his mother-in-law, who worked all her life as a teacher in a rural school. The circuit clerk will not be able to come to the Lexus and live in Concha-Sleep in a four-story house and talk about him renting it for 100 bucks or 20 bucks. I understand the fear of having an office before this law. I understand that some of the colleagues here who are now speaking out loud are voting against this law. Because they're probably afraid of something about themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u153	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u154	So I urge everyone not to wait for presidential bills or anyone else's, but I urge everyone to vote, support the decision of the committee of profile and vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u155	Oleg Volodymyrovich Novikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u156	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Bill 4472 was drafted in accordance with articles 7 and 8 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The most effective measure to ensure a reduction in the level of corruption in the sector is the introduction of a system for declaring the income of property and the expenditure of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, their families and their close relatives. A special feature of the bill is that it is aimed not only at identifying the facts of the illegal enrichment of public officials but also at identifying financial conflicts, interests that may arise or arise from public officials in the performance of their duties. The bill also provides for a wide range of entities to declare in view of the fact that the existence of high corruption risks is often not based on equality, but rather on the nature of the public official’s function. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert office recommends rejecting the bill. However, the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names, please show me. Vladimir Stretović, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u158	Vladimir Stretović, Christian Democratic Union, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Unfortunately, the fight against corruption in Ukraine resembles the struggle of Don Quixote with windmills, who fought all the time but did not understand what he had achieved in his struggle. At the end of this year, in December-month, a group of GRECO and the Organisation for European Cooperation will listen to Ukraine and how we fight corruption. That we've broken the laws twice. The laws on the entry into force of anti-corruption laws do not commend us or add us to a normal political face in the European Union. This bill is not new. Back in 2005, if I had no memory of 2003, I'm sorry, we tried to enforce the law, then there were 93 volunteers in our room. It is interesting how many today are willing to establish financial control not only for those in the public service but also for relatives, close relatives. And their definition, as we know, is given by the Civil Code, which clearly defines the list of individuals to declare, their income, their wealth and, accordingly, a little bit of corruption in Ukraine. Of course, it's a new form. Of course, those who want to fight will look for opportunities to do so. Those who do not want to fight, Vladimir Mikhailovich, show the factions how who will vote at the end, who supports or does not support such an innovation? I want to say that this practice is not new to Ukraine, it exists in many countries. And on entering the public service or taking up a high office from an official at the level of ministers, deputy ministers are required to make such declarations, and a specially authorized authority, whether tax, or whether the Security Service checks whether this is true and thus gives green light to the occupation of the respective office. So I propose to all my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading, to discuss it and, together with the entry into force of January 1st, to introduce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u159	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u160	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm going to tell you right now that I'm going to urge you not to vote for this law. And it's not because we're afraid, as the author says, of any of his proposals or because we don't have to fight corruption. All of this needs to be done. But I am against how and by what methods is proposed in this law to establish financial control in Ukraine. Financial control in Ukraine has long been created, it is. It really doesn't work the way we want it to. But we really need to look for methods and ways that would look right. Well, for example, this project is defined as a very broad circle of declaration subjects, and there is no justification for a broad list of information to be provided in a declaration that will create, in fact, major inconveniences, since it will require the entities to keep a permanent account of all income and expenditure. Unjustified, I think, is the introduction of this amount of information for all without the exception of government officials and their families. After all, it is clear that it is appropriate to declare only those who hold high office. Well, of course, there are a lot of questions to be said for the subject. We say we're afraid of our mother-in-law there or we're going to use our property, but let's really do it. What, though, if you are an adult? They live separately, not always in harmony with their parents, there are conflicts. How can we put a person in a position, give me a son who is 40 years old and who lives long with his family and does not get along with his parents, let me know. Of course, he will not get it. And come on, what about the Constitution? The Constitution, no one has the right to intervene in his personal and family life, except in the cases provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and so forth. The project is also designed, for example, for creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u161	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u162	How many of these new bodies can be introduced? I think we should reject that law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u163	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u164	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues, a respected subject of the legislative initiative, immediately say that such a certain blackmail on the ground that you do not vote, so you are a corrupter, you have not joined me. I didn't work at the customs office, I didn't work at the tax office, I didn't do VAT, and so on. Clearly, then, this does not apply to me at all. But I'm for something else. You know, when we come up with a good idea, and the idea is definitely the right thing to do is to declare it, let's not make up for it because there are some sort of inadequacy things here, and I want to say it to you. For if we are to adopt a serious law, it must be seriously prescribed. See the situation: On June 11, 2009, the Supreme Council passed the law, you know, it was called “The Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption”. If it doesn't work, let's cancel it, but it is. And in this law, financial monitoring is already prescribed. In this law, I have read both this and yours, in this law, listen, this law states that there is a conflict of interest. You propose a different definition of conflict of interest, this is in article 1. How should this relate and correspond to what is part of the legislation? Sorry, you can't just do that in terms of legal technology and jurisprudence. One second. Clearly, your law is anticorruption, and that is very good. But the circle of responsibility for corruption differs from that of those authorized to perform the functions of the State and of local self - government, which are the subject of the declaration, sorry, according to your law. [[Article 2 of this Law]] What, then, is to be used by those who are to obey these laws? Just by saying that we have to fight corruption? Obviously, this is not the case either. Second, I want to pay attention, the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act, recently adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u165	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u166	Financial control arrangements have been noted. There is actually another system of financial control. How can there be two financial control systems in sync? Depending on political preferences and political conditions, who will apply one system or another? So I propose not to reject this bill as such. It has to be done very seriously, not from the point of view of politics and pyar, I have nothing wrong with you, really a pyar, but from the point of view of the contents of the bill. The laws must be of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm just going to say one thing in the development of the performances that have spoken. We really need to make the right decisions, but there's an impression in the process of discussing that these decisions are often more widely proposed in order to put the other party in a position that needs to be justified. And the calculation is: we have made our case, we have passed the law, we will not accept it, but we will have a basis for political discussion. Let's talk about what we need to make a decision that would be necessary for the country. Or everyone writes and thinks it's none of my business. And I'm going to say, dear colleagues, what you all think applies to each one of you here. Is it true? The truth. So let's make a law that suits the interests of the country, not the interests of the political struggle. That's it. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on State Financial Control Measures of Public Service. [[Registration number 4472]] Please vote. [[13:26:09]] For 124 The decision is not made. I'm voting on the second proposal that was made, by the way, in Oleg Zarubinsky's speech, that this bill needs to be revised and then it's proposed to be re-readed. [[13:26:39]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your attention is offered. The Forest Resources Act is proposed to your attention. [[Registration number 5498]] The proposal is to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:27:13]] For-187 Decision taken. Reporter: Vladimir Andryovich Danilenko, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u168	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster submitted, in the first reading, a bill on forest resources, which was replaced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shershun. [[Registration number 5498]] [[of 10.03.2010]] The bill is designed in connection with insufficient regulation at the legislative level of operators involved in the implementation, acquisition and export of secondary forest resources, especially those such as medical plants, mushrooms, strawberries, and nuts. According to article 73 of the Ukrainian Forest Code, the appropriate executive authorities set a limit on the use of forest resources, which is consistent with the territorial executive authorities on forest management and environmental protection. The special use of forest resources is plausible. Upon receipt of a forest ticket, economic operators are required to prepare forest resources within the limits set. In practice, forest resources, especially berries and mushrooms, are produced in many cases with a significant excess of the limits. It is extremely difficult to ensure strict control of this activity. The main mass of forest resources collected is shipped abroad, resulting in the depletion of forest conditions, the failure to pay to local budgets for forest resources, and the loss of raw materials for domestic processing enterprises. The bill introduces the procedure for the implementation and export of forest resources with the existence of a certificate of origin. The subject of management for each batch of forest resources was declared on customs control during the export operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u169	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u170	shall provide a certificate of origin issued by the relevant Forestry Service. Thus, the Committee on Ecology, Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends the adoption of this Forest Resources Bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u171	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this event if you need to. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Stretović, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u172	Thank you. “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense.” Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! My childhood, as I'm sure many here, went through the forest farm, I grew up on the forest border, until I was 14 years old, and I didn't even know what electricity was. As I grew up in the forest, I was deeply concerned about the problem of forest farming and the development of this area. If today the foresters are strikingly reporting that the deforestation of our territories is going at a normal pace, they can't help but worry about what is happening in the Chernobyl area, for example, where unknown young people are arbitrarily cutting out the radioactive forest, bringing it in, producing something, but we don't see the result of what the authorities are talking about. But let's go back to the forest resources. By adopting a certain law and how it will be administered, how it will be applied. It's clear that setting up appropriate licenses, forest tickets for those industrial chefs that make nuts, mushrooms, berries, is a very real, very impressive thing. But how will this be done when a person living in a village, such as the Plains, the Zitomirs, or Volins region, the most wooded area, or the Carpathians, goes to pick up mushrooms or berries for himself, and is there to be guarded that he will not be allowed to do so. How will the law itself be fulfilled? So on these grounds, without seeing the mechanism, how the executive authorities will issue appropriate licensing conditions for such activities, I think this law is essentially necessary, but there is no mechanism for its application. So it must either be sent back for rereading, or completely rejected as one that cannot be implemented. Indeed, there is a problem. You have to choose from a government resource, government wealth what the State budget can get. But this law will not allow this to happen. Because of the suffering of a number of citizens, foresters who live in populated areas in a forest area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! Who else insists? Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are really two parts of the bill. So if it's about the common people, if we go today, for example, the Volin region, we go through the Zacarpathian and the border areas, where a lot of people actually live at the expense of the congregation, the seasonal congregation or the forest berries, or the mushrooms, if we tell them now that the appropriate Deerlis organ that's doing this production will sell them the right to collect in the forest where they're born, berries or mushrooms, then you can imagine what it's going to be like for us and for our country. And to those organs that they represent? If anyone has seen them gather berries, one can imagine how much strength and health it takes to spend when families go into the forest and collect them. But another problem is, these are so-called middle-sized structures or firms or producers. This is where Schershon is logically right when he's talking about order in this coordinate system. Because if we're already divided by Carpathians among some, I'm not going to call the countries, because these are mainly non-Ukrainian firms that work, that are cheaply buying and transporting this to Italy there, Poland, Slovakia and other countries. So it seems to me that this idea would have to be thought about how it was properly organized, as Vladimir Strtowitz said, organizationally and institutionally. That there are those people who, for their own sakes, have to support their family, that, God forbid, they still have to look forward to testing and making these decisions, and there are companies that work mostly abroad. And companies or joint ventures that work in the territory and that make a lot of money. That's why I would have kept it that way. But I thought about how to make it happen. So that we do not harm those families who live in socially vulnerable and sometimes depressed areas, in fact, is the only sub - income for our families.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt a bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office proposes to implement the legislative initiative by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Forest Code. I'm voting on the Committee's first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Forest Resources Act. [[Registration number 5498]] Please vote. [[13:35:21]] For-37 The decision is not taken. In view of such minor support, the bill has been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons Without the Right to Retirement and to Persons with Disabilities. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] [[Registration number 4535]] It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:36:08]] For-195 Decision taken. Reporter – Cibenko Peter Stepanovich and co-reporter – head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u176	Thank you. Communist faction Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, in accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Persons Without Pension and Persons with Disabilities, "the persons with disabilities of war I and II of the group who are assigned a disability pension in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons", state social assistance is set up to provide 50 per cent and 25 per cent of the subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their jobs. The same persons with disabilities who receive pensions according to other laws will be provided with state social assistance to care for a minimum of 15 percent of their living for those who have lost their jobs. As of October 1, 2010, the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs, namely, 723 bracelets, the difference in aid for the care of the first group’s war invalids is a very substantial amount, namely, 253 bracelets. The bill proposes to establish the same amount of State social assistance for the care of the disabled in the first and second groups regardless of the law under which they are assigned to retire. That is, those with disabilities in the first group of 50 percent, those with disabilities in the second group of 25 percent of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs. The bill will require an additional 44 million dollars from the state budget. However, I believe that this issue needs to be addressed first, taking into account the social dimension, because the extent of aid to care for war invalids should not depend on the amount of benefits that the disabled person receives from the law. In addition, we need to consider the category of individuals involved. These are the disabled of the First and Second Groups of War.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u177	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u178	So people, the youngest of them today, 83, are, let's say, on January 1, 2010, with the first group of 50,000 people and with the disabled in the second group, 100,000 people. So, dear colleagues, I beg your pardon to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u179	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the head of the Suškevitch Committee Valeri Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u180	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Suškević, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons considered a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Persons Without the Right to Retirement and Persons with Disabilities at its September 9th meeting this year. [[No. 4535]] You know, today to the committee on this subject, from the subject of the law that my colleague just reported, it means that a very large number of references are coming. And why these references are particularly important and important is that this year is the year of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory. And we just celebrated the 66th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders. And the question is. Why is today the disabled of the Great War 1 group receiving an allowance of 361 bracelets if his pension is calculated according to the so - called military law, that is, the Retirement Insurance Act of all persons released from military service and some others, and only 108 fines if the pension is calculated in accordance with the National Pension Insurance Act. Absolute dissonance and the legislature, which has existed for many years. And, by the way, it was unfortunately supported in its own time by the Law on State Social Assistance for Persons Who Have No Retirement and Disability to Government Decisions, a government proposal for legislation. And that's why it's this year, and it's by correcting this mistake in relation to our people with disabilities. I emphasize, fellow citizens, it's a matter of solving the issue for the disabled of war. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons recommends that the Supreme Council support the legislative initiative aimed at supporting our war disabled and adopting this bill as a basis. It should be noted that the Committee on Budgetary Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u181	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u182	The Committee on Budget Issues, taking into account the position of the Ministry of Finance that the bill has an impact on the spending of the State budget, notes that the bill may be adopted and effective not earlier than 1 January 2011. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports a bill with a warning regarding the 27th article of the Budget Code. Once again, I turn to my respected fellow members of the national MPs. We will support the solution to the issue of the disabled of war and establish the same allowances under all the laws of Ukraine in relation to these honorable people. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u184	Thank you very much. I don't think anyone in this room today will shake their hand, shake their hand, not vote for this bill. Because this year is the year of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory in the Great Homeland War, because it's because a few days ago you and I celebrated the 66th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders. I think that these people who made love to their Fatherland and wanted to free her, and they did it, all 65 years they actually lived in a nightmare, carrying out the noblest mission of freeing their country, freeing the Soviet people -- the Ukrainians from the invaders, from the Fascist game. And that's why today my Hersonian celebrates every day the celebration of the liberation of every district from German-Fashite invaders. Today -- Herson, Kalanczak, Chaplinka, tomorrow -- other areas. And I think that all the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the disabled, the military widows, their grandchildren and great grandchildren, listening to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will actually bow their heads to the great feat of the disabled of the Great Homeland War, and to our civic position and duty. And I think today we should vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u185	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, when it comes to adopting drafts that have a social orientation or social policy, I always stick to that point of view, I think, and most in the session room are following, we, apart from the good, pleasant, sweet words, need real, practical things, so we're going to need a real working law that would enable us to raise the material well-being of people with disabilities. This is certainly and definitely true. In a way that this bill is written, he's not going to be able to work, he's not going to work. It'll be consecrated and we'll get unpleasant things. Therefore, I think that this bill needs to be worked out in order to make the necessary amounts necessary for the 2011 budget, and this should be insisted on by both the Committee on Disability and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, clearly. Otherwise we get what we get very often. We're adopting bills, we're saying a lot of beautiful words, bills don't work, instead of laws, instead of material aid, we get one annoyance from our people. It's, I don't think anyone's going to argue with that. So I would suggest, if I voted in favour of this bill, that it would only be on the first reading, just on the first reading, to allow it to be further developed. Because since January 1, 2010, this bill has no longer been able to work, it has been written long ago. And on the other hand, if. Or, in other cases, for redrafting, for rereading, send a bill, but it must be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u187	Yeah. Master, please, microphone. Master, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u188	Mestipán, "Fatherland" Party, the "Julia Timoshenko Block" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, my statement is also in support of this bill. You've already heard that it's only about 150 people who are eligible for pension. And if you think about it. Considering that of these 150,000 we have in nine months compared to the last year, 20 thousand of them have gone out of our lives, of course, there is no reason for us to say that we can't accept it. If you look at the monetary expression, well, this is the number 44 million, I'll say that the first group with disabilities is going to get plus 361 bracelets, the second one is 180 and the third one is 108, which is also extremely small sums. And as far as we're concerned, most of us in this room voted in March of this year to announce 2010 as the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u189	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u190	Of course, the law should be adopted, at least as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the author of the bill and those colleagues who speak of the principle of justice in that part that we, thinking of older people, have expanded the category of war participants that has been lost somewhere, first, and the category of people who have actually gone through war, and above all, those who have been disabled, those who have participated in combat. And so I take it, Peter Alexanderovich, that right now my colleagues, Afghans, war participants, people with disabilities, are going to get under this category that will support this bill. I think it's fair to distinguish between the degree of support and social justice on this issue. Because when it comes to not just a war participant, but a war participant's disability, it's a category of people who need our help and support first. And here, I think. And so colleague Jaroslav Suhi spoke, and he's also right, but if you count it, it's a small amount. If in general you talk about. When we're looking at some social bills, it's billions, if the committee's doing the right thing, it's 44 million, I don't think that's the amount we can argue about. But once again, not so much in terms of support, it's a small sum, but in terms of general ideology. So today, when we talk about people who have seen the war, who have fought the war, who have protected the country, they need first of all support, what's more, in the experience of our Afghan hospital, the number of people with disabilities, in practice, they are undergoing treatment every year, because they need financial support in the sense that the state cares about them. So I would like to support this bill, and look, with the government already to consult, maybe there will be a question, maybe we won't be there since January 1st. To think, from the middle of the year, he may be put into operation. That's technology. That is why we vote in favour, and when it does, we need to consult with the Ministry of Finance and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, and the committee is offering to take it as a basis. The same proposal is followed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons Without the Right to Retirement and Disability. [[on State Social Assistance for the Care of War Disability]] Registration number 4535. Please vote. [[13:50:23]] For 124 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party 2, Block Timoshenko 72, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 18, Communist 26, Block Lithuania- 0, non-fractional-6. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the bill. [[13:50:54]] For 312 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act on the Complementation of Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. [[on the licensing of aviation and aviation technology]] The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure and then announce a recess. Please vote. [[13:51:30.]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The reporter is Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. The reporter is Natalia Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! I'm asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to be co-authors, and I'm asking the committee to move this bill to this day. The thing is, it's about the military-industrial sector. And we have a contradiction today with the executive branch of power, because the military-industrial complex and the problem of deregulation don't fit together. So I have a strong request: give us time to work with the government for the next week or two, and this bill is under consideration for today's transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u195	Please prepare for the vote. I'll put it to a vote on the postponement of the draft law. I'm voting on a motion to postpone the bill. [[Registration number 5444]] [[13:52:45]] For 226 Decision taken. Why don't we take another look? This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on the statement of revenue of the deputies]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a brief look at this. Please be supportive. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[13:53:29]] For 202 Decision taken. Reporter: People's Deputy Landik, please. None. The committee is Mr. Mikola Fedorovich. Please, Mikolo Fedorovich, give us a conclusion as to what we can do about this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u196	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils on a Declaration on the Revenues of Local Councils by the People's MP Landik. The content of the bill is to amend article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which foresees that members of local councils should be obliged to fill in and submit to the local council a declaration on income, a commitment of financial nature and a financial status for themselves and their family members in accordance with the regulations of the relevant local council. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in conclusion number 60/3, recommends that the first reading of the bill return to the subject of the legislative initiative. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee note that the adoption of the novels proposed by the project will result in the formation of a legal coalition with provisions of Ukraine's Anti-Corruption Laws, “For State Service”, “For Service in Local Self-Government Authorities”. The Committee supports the appropriate improvement of legislation on the declaration of revenues by members of local councils and believes that the proposals mentioned can be taken into account in the drafting of the new Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. In view of the above - mentioned committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the draft law be redrafted in the first reading to further the subject of the legislative initiative. Let's keep it simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? Please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u198	Thank you. I think the drafter of the bill, the committee has done the right thing and done the right thing. Because we still have to have every deputy in the village council fill out a three-kilometre declaration, and then we'll have nothing to do with it. But I would also like to wish that the Supreme Council's profile committee came up with a meeting with our rural and village council deputies to say something else. I think it's time for the next question. We have many deputies of rural and rural councils, which are chosen almost five times, six times, because people trust them. They trust their questions, they want to say, and they probably trust the more important questions today: both land issues and their woes and everything else. And these MPs are coming to us and saying, Catherine Seminally, you know, we've worked for the community for a few years, to our country, whether we should look at, for example, legislatively address the following issues, it's an allowance of at least 5 percent, or 10 percent, of the pension to MPs who are elected for several times to the village council or village council. That's the first one. The other one. We have rural councils that include 5 to 6 population points, and we also have a request for free travel on transport, whether it's public transportation, whether it's a state council or a village council. These questions may in some way be in some way socially guaranteeing the activity of those who gain confidence from the earth. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u199	Will you finish, please? You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u200	I would like the profile committee to study these very questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal for acceptance as a basis. And if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support this issue, then the bill will automatically be rejected. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on the statement of revenue of the deputies]] Registration number 3196. [[13:59:02]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected, especially since it is settled in the Local Elections Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our plenary work.
