ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:00:30]] Registered -415 There are 415 National Deputies cards registered in the session room. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that a delegation of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Austria is now taking part in our session: the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Irmgard Griss, the Head of the Association of Supreme Courts of the European Union; the Head of the Senate of the Supreme Court of the Austrian Republic, Ms. Ilza Huber; and the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Austrian Republic, Mr. Ronald Rore. Let's welcome the guests.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u2	At your expense, Hennadi Hennadiovich. Let me inform you about the summary of our work yesterday in plenary meetings. Forty questions of the agenda were considered, five laws and five decrees were adopted, six drafts were adopted on a basis, one bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, three bills were returned to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 14 bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of the consideration of the President of Ukraine's proposals, four laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, and one law has been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 25 and 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. “hour of questions to the Government”. Representatives of non-committal MPs made proposals to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers on housing subsidies during the "hour of questions to the Government". Today, Minister of Labour and Social Policy Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag will answer questions from the national deputies. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine take up to 30 minutes to question the members of the Cabinet of Ministers from the non-committal factions and to answer them. The deputy faction of the block “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, based on part six of Rule 229 of the Rules, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions that would be asked during an hour of questions to the government. After the minister has answered these written questions the rest of the time left, we will ask the factions about the oral questions of the faction “Bloke Timoshenko”. After 30 minutes, the minister will answer the questions of all the national deputies. Anatolia Sergiyovich is very interested in where Head is. The head is on a work trip, and he is now going to Harkow, where today's session of the Law Academy of Sciences, in which he will participate, will come out of the sinister problems of legal education. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of the hour of the question. Please, Vasil Ivanovich, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u3	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Since the initiative on the topic of today's "hour of questions to the Government" was followed by the MP's faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", let me begin by answering a written question that came from the specified faction to the Ministry. First question. According to the media, you said 90-95 percent of the population could receive housing payments. According to the U.S. Pension Fund, 9.3 million packets of documents were delivered to pensioners. As evidenced by the official website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, only 587 thousand letters were received on September 17 with applications for pensioners' subsidies. Why such a small percentage of references? Has Minpraci analyzed the causes of this phenomenon by means of methods to overcome this gap? By your permission, the answer. The honourable national deputies, indeed, are informed by the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine of every family that is made up of pensioners, of their ability to receive assistance for housing services and the simplified way in which such assistance can be provided. In addition, each of these families has provided the necessary set of documents to form a grant in accordance with the application principle. Let me remind you that we've narrowed down the list of documents mentioned, and today for pensioners and other non-working citizens, it's a statement and a declaration. For the workers it's also a plus income statement, that's a payday, if we're talking about most of our citizens. So we have given citizens who need state aid to pay their rent in the most appropriate way. That is, without going to the workplace and to social protection of the population. According to our estimate, up to 90-95 percent of those families who apply for housing subsidies get this right and receive these subsidies. On September 24, this year, 792 thousand 200 families were assigned short - term subsidies, 3.5 times more than the housing grant recipients in July this year, which is more than the 230 thousand we granted in July. Regarding why so many references are currently being made. Not a large percentage of references, I would like to say, this is usually related to the fact that while boilers and batteries do not work in the streets and homes, the amount of gas consumption is small, and then municipal payments do not exceed the thresholds at which the right to a subsidy arises. I remind you that in a new order, the threshold has been reduced from 15 to 10 percent for pensioners and other disabled citizens, and from 20 to 15 percent for working citizens. According to a sociological survey of the population of Ukraine, housing subsidies are well reported. 92 percent of respondents who testify to the survey note that they know who and under what conditions such assistance is provided. So citizens are well aware that state support will be most needed from the beginning of the heating season when housing and utilities pay for heating. At the same time, we have started and continue to carry out a constantly clarifying campaign on housing subsidies, which is expected to be allocated within three months after the tariffs have been adjusted. This means that even if the application for subsidies from a citizen to the Social Protection Authority reached November 1st, subsidies may be granted starting in August of this year. So the largest number of turns we expect in October-November. The Minpraci Research Institute estimates that the number of recipients of subsidies during the heating period 2010-2011 will range from one to 2.5 million families or to 9 percent of all the families that live in our country today. I also want to say that the government has taken another step to meet those citizens, who can only have the right to a grant with the start of a heating season. Yes, the government's decision of September 8th this year empowers labour and social protection authorities to grant heating subsidies on the basis of applications made by citizens in August-September of this year. So the second time they've submitted documents to citizens, if they've done it in August-September, they don't need it. With the start of the heating season, their documents will be reviewed by the authorities of work and social protection and will receive appropriate subsidies. Thus, we expect that the number of assigned subsidies will increase rapidly starting in October. I want to assure you that our local administrations are ready for this peak period and will do their utmost not to allow the queues and to be as careful as possible to each child seeking subsidies. The second question came to us. “The government promises to protect the interests of the socially important population by giving these people housing subsidies. But the press writes otherwise, they have the mass marches of inspectors in the homes of those who filed the grant documents. Computers, refrigerators, and televisions are being copied. Is it an object of luxury? What if it was a gift from children or relatives? That is, the government has decided, on various occasions, to artificially restrict the right of citizens to receive subsidies for housing and utility costs.” By your permission, the answer. Honorable national deputies, legislation, clearly defined cases in which citizens are not entitled to housing subsidies. With your permission, I'm going to list them: first of all, this is the presence of several, I would like to stress, a few cars or a few apartments, or a situation where a working citizen is not working for a long time and is not looking for work through the employment center system. Even under such circumstances, subsidies may still be assigned as an exception, as decided by the local authorities ’ commission, taking into account all the circumstances in the family. I mean, once again, the local authorities, by forming the respective commissions, can consider and give them the right to decide in an exceptional way. And that's what I'm going to say when a person insists, and when there's real preconceptions, I'm going to assign a grant, regardless of certain formal contradictions. The commission also examines the issue and may assign a subsidy to even more than the normal housing area where our citizens live. It is in such cases that family conditions are examined and appropriate acts are put in place to justify decisions made by appropriate commissions regarding the assignment of subsidies. By the way, I want to prove to you that the vast majority of decisions made by such committees are positive, that is, for the benefit of the citizens. I also want to inform the people's deputies that there are only one and a half thousand social inspectors working in the social protection system. And given that we have over 750 city and district departments of work and social protection, it's not hard to estimate that on average we have no more than two social inspectors. Adding to the fact that nearly 3 million families with housing benefits have been involved in the social assistance system besides housing subsidies, it is clear that even if the inspector wanted to do so, it was very difficult for him to examine the homes of all families who applied for subsidies in an appropriate manner. And this is not a problem that social inspectors are so hard to deal with. They are preparing a document to a greater extent to prepare a decision to provide social assistance and other social benefits that the State is providing to our citizens. So talking about the mass marches of domestic inspectors who want to form a subsidy is, to some extent, an exaggeration that does not correspond to reality. The next question came to us. If, according to you, the majority of families can get a grant, then why would you want to increase the cost of gas and housing? Was it not more appropriate and simpler, out of the $5.2 billion budgeted for these purposes, to supply directly to the producers of these services? The effect on the family budget was the same. However, millions of people would not stand in line in the workplace and social protection, and their employees would not be overwhelmed by documents. Ladies and gentlemen, not only Ukrainian, but also the world's practice tells us that targeted support programmes for low-income citizens are socially fair to citizens, and I'm not afraid of that word, it's convenient for the State, and it's direct subsidies to reduce the cost of community services, which are of a general, non-target nature. So far, the state has compensated for housing services for all citizens. And for those living in elite homes and those living in cartilages and receiving social assistance from the state. For those and others, the cost of gas and heat was the same. From now on, high-income citizens will be deprived of such generous financial support from the state in the form of housing subsidies. And these costs will only go to support the underprivileged. The government's decision to increase social protection for the population is that the part of the family budget spent in low-income families on housing services is not only constant, it would not become larger. Not less than 10-15 percent of the family budget. And that's what was done. I'm sorry, and I'd be less than 10-15 percent of the family budget. And that's what was done. As mentioned earlier, from August 1st of this year, compulsory housing and utility payments for disabled recipients, i.e. pensioners and disabled persons, have been reduced by a third of the total income of 15 percent, as a maximum cost, to 10 percent. And for working citizens per quarter, of 20 percent, not more than 20 percent of total income, up to 15 percent. In fact, the State is providing targeted support to the poor and will save both its own resources and their own. It is also necessary to add that the subsidy will cover even those families that were previously excluded from the grant recipients category. These are citizens who get an average salary or an average pension. Because the downsizing of this threshold is a basic principle, according to which subsidies have become much more accessible to the majority of the population, taking into account their potential. The fourth questions. According to Crimean journalists, some 80 percent of the applications and declarations filed with the Crimean Authority and the social protection of Crimean autonomy were damaged. According to media reports, the situation is similar in other regions: documents are filled with errors and are often corrected. All of this inhibits the process of developing subsidies, causing unnecessary problems for people. Questions. What steps did your ministry take to make clear how to deal with people and how to deal effectively with subsidies? Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! In response to the previous question, I have already partially highlighted the topic of information and awareness-raising work carried out by the Department of Labour and Social Protection departments, along with colleagues from housing and utilities in general with local authorities. I'd like to add a few more words. For the sake of extensive information, we constantly provide information about the housing program.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u4	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u5	We continue our information-explanatory work in printed and electronic media, both in the Ukrainian and regional levels. In particular, from September on-air television broadcasts, including local television companies, are showing the 9-minute story Social Compass, which contains detailed information on how subsidies are received, documents and other legal aspects of the issue. On the government portal, a special page was created on the Minpraci site, “Warning. Housing subsidies” and “Living subsidies in an simplified manner” which can be found out about all specific subsidy schemes. Also, take advantage of samples of all necessary documents. Information on the status of grants is also updated daily. Since July 19, this year, the government hotline has been operating. Free phone 0-800-507-309, which has reached nearly 700, excuse me, 70,000 citizens who have been given appropriate explanations and comments. During August-September this year, the State Employment Service has taken steps to engage unemployed people in paid public employment information on housing subsidies. More than 6.5,000 unemployed people are involved in such jobs. At the local level, there is also widespread information on the population by producing information materials. Meetings are held with citizens at a place of residence, on a rural staircase, in the premises of veterans and public organizations. Information tents in the central part of the city are also used to inform and provide advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, Vasil Ivanovich. The rule provides 30 minutes — answers to questions from factions that are not part of the coalition. Questions are answered, written questions of a faction that is not part of the coalition. You know, I can't say the faction "Our Ukraine": write one or two questions. As many as you wrote, you have to answer within 30 minutes. Go ahead, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u7	With regard to the corrupt forms that our citizens have spoiled on one issue or another, this is not a problem. First of all, our employees are oriented to find out by telephone if they receive falsely filled forms and applications, and to make the necessary clarifications on the phone. The second is that sick people or people with limited physical capacity will be visited by our employee and will help to form papers. Finally, we realize that most citizens, especially in their many years of retirement, still want to come to their own home, as it were, and along with our workers, to fill in the necessary documents, which, as it were, are in place. I repeat, we are ready for this work. In any case, new forms can always be obtained in the administration of work and social protection of the population at the residence of the citizen, in the rural area, in the authorized persons of rural and rural councils. There, however, are practical advice on how to fill in the forms. The last question: “It is known that housing - utility subsidies are only 20 square feet [20 sq m] plus 10 square feet [10 sq m] per family. Why is it not taken into account when pensioners remain alone in a house, such as that built after the war? This situation is common in villages. Why are such pensioners deprived of subsidies?’ I'd like to say, honourable national deputies, that there are, in fact, standards for housing subsidies. It's 21 square meters per person and 10 and a half square meters extra per family as a whole. At the same time, there is a working mechanism that allows us to take into account all the cases mentioned in the question. That is, local authorities are given the right to make decisions regarding the granting of subsidies to an increased or total housing area, taking into account the specific housing circumstances of each particular family. As I said before, there are appropriate commissions at the local authorities that deal with the situation and make decisions in most ways to help a person if even housing standards in his family go beyond that. With regard to single pensioners, such decisions are generally generally positive, since we take a reasonable view of the situation when a person is left alone, has a rural home, or has a small apartment that he purchased 20 or 30 years ago. In total, during January-August 2010, housing subsidies for increased overcrowding were allocated to 51,000 families. I would like to emphasize that we require the staff of our system to be as correct and considerate as possible and to respond harshly to any incidents, I would say, yes, not the tolerant behavior of our workers with regard to the applicant. And one last question. “The government promotes the approach to the creation of multi-housing house owners’ associations – OSBB – with responsibilities to maintain the housing fund solely at the expense of the owners. In the event of the payment of subsidies to OSBB members, residents pay less, but OSBB will not be able to fully account for housing and utility providers at the same time. Since there are no compensation mechanisms for these losses for the FSBs at present, do you not think that the massive accumulation of subsidies by their members will lead to numerous failures of the FSB and the collapse of public policy by reforming the housing community sector?" With your permission, the honourable national MPs. The members of OSB, and this is the main one, have the same rights to receive state aid in the form of housing subsidies as all other citizens of Ukraine. Labour and social protection agencies have been cooperating in this area for many years. For example, in the Dniprov region of Kiev, 45 families out of 17 similar associations are currently receiving subsidies. In the Pechersky region, 35 families of 12 OSBBs, 16 families of 10 OSBBs in the Shevchenkov region. In order to ensure the primary objective of the simplified procedure for granting grants for the release of citizens from the need to collect the assistance necessary for the assignment of grants, the limited technical capabilities of the OSBB are carried out by the social protection authorities in an individual order under the "request-response" scheme. By adding subsidies to the residents of OSBB, there is no way that these organizations are going to lose their lives and can neither be an obstacle to their creation nor an obstacle to their activities. At the same time, I would like to assure you that if there are any problems with OSBB or any other direction, we will be able to resolve them together with the Ministry of Housing and Local Authorities, which is evidenced by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on September 8th that has gone further in developing the existing situation to facilitate our citizens' ability to receive subsidies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, there are six minutes left. The BUT faction can only be recorded on the question, only the BUT faction for the time being. Yes, please, six minutes. No, then there'll be democracy. Quiet Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u9	You've got it on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u10	I ask you to pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u11	Pavlovski, please. Turn on the Pavlovsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u12	Andrey Palovski, the "Fatherland" party. According to recently published data, the number of poor people in our country has increased by almost 10 percent over the past six months, reaching 78 percent, which is 78 percent of the population in our country, according to international statistics. So I would like to clarify the number of people who are entitled to housing subsidies after a sharp rise in gas prices for the population, for housing services. So maybe all of these 78 percent would have the right to receive subsidies instead of playing with interest, with terms and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u13	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Mr. Andrew. The situation is that, in order to simplify the situation of the grant, the state went in two directions: the first direction is to reduce the cost the family should spend on housing services. If the family is made up of workers, their cost of housing services should not exceed 15 percent, and if the family is made up of disabled persons, or pensioners and disabled persons, no more than 10 percent of their total income. [[As you know, it used to be 20.]] And accordingly, today's simplification of this situation allows more of our citizens to come and take advantage of their right to receive subsidies. On the other hand, the State would have made the subsidy procedure much easier. I would like to show you, for example, that what we received in the present warehouse, for example, was four complete pages. We simplified this situation and made it one. And in a way, the same thunderstorm and very big, and to some extent it wasn't clear to people in general, there was a declaration where people were supposed to write what they had, and in an appropriate way, coming out of their property, you could assign a subsidy. We've simplified that by one page as well. So today it's done in this way, in order to make people easier, the threshold that they have to spend on paying and the simplified procedure for obtaining subsidies is reduced. We think that if we're putting public policy to work out social protection for the population, it's a particular trend in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u14	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Mrs. Ulyani Mistpane.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u16	Please, the mic of the townpan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u17	Mt. Uljana Mikolayevna, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", faction, Party of the Fatherland. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, Presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovic's programme was to pay monthly child support from three to 13 years by 250 dollars and between 13 and 18 years by 500 dollars. In your opinion, why isn't the government doing this now, the government of Azarov? And why do you think the president's promise remains a touch?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u18	Well, first of all, I'd like to thank you for asking. The problem is that today these changes are already under way and we've handed them over for further processing, including in this session room. On the other hand, I would like to point out to you that, of course, the emerging questions should, as it were, find their solution. We hope that today's subject of subsidies is the most massive subject that it is not only about population interest, but it is about the population in its entirety, in part, that this is no longer about individual categories, it is not about the benefits that a person receives depending on his status, it is about the so-called "address-aid system" when a person, regardless of his status or anything else, but just considering his financial situation, can appropriately address the state, and the state responds appropriately to the request, to the perception of the human situation and will help him accordingly. So today, saying what we're doing in this way, I would like to point out that our vision of the situation is that we have to move into the relief system, and in the part of the issue that you said, and in the part of the subsidies, and in the whole of the social policy, the state, as stated by the President, should be directed towards getting the support of the least protected, most vulnerable groups of the population, and in this way had the opportunity to receive support from the State, regardless of any problems that existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is now an opportunity to sign up for questions to all the national MPs. Yeah, 30 minutes. Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u20	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Secretary, when you work with voters in the district, you have to hear thoughts from different people -- both from grant recipients and from the employees of the JCC -- that the more you consume gas, heat and electricity, the more subsidies. So they say the more you burn the gas, the more you'll have the subsidy. If that is the case, why should citizens economically partake of utilities? And what steps do you and your ministry plan to take to encourage families that have created subsidies to the economy of housing and utilities? Please give a clear answer that is understandable to ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. The question is really what very often comes to our hotlines. Answer. We have subsidies not only for housing standards, but also for housing services, namely gas volume, water volume, light that a person can use. So we have some marginals. So life shows that if people react neatly to the way they spend light, gas, water, they don't completely choose this norm in absolute numbers. So they don't choose gas in a certain amount, they don't choose water in a fixed amount and all that. But the subsidy is intended for the full amount. And so I would tell you in this way, if people are very careful about the cost of residential services, then they pay not 15 or 10 percent, but they pay from 9 to 11 percent. So people, by spending water, light, and gas neatly, get full-scale subsidies, and they're going to pay less. And so the subsidy, if you work, is no longer 15 percent, but as the practice shows, I can be 12 percent and even 11 percent. And for pensioners, not 10 percent of their total income, but even less. Because the state will pay a subsidy for the full amount of the utilities that it provides. Therefore, if people are careful to do so, they will save even within the percentages assigned to them by 10 or 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u22	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u23	Dear Vassili Ivanovich, thank you for the detailed information, you have broken it down. And I want to say that there is indeed a great deal of work being done by both the Government and your Ministry to create serious real mechanisms, social compensators in the context of price changes. And I think that if the individual political forces hadn't interfered, the sticks would not have stuck in the wheels, but they would have helped, this work would have been even more active. But Allah is their Judge, their Conscience. But that's my question. It's often subjective, the paperwork's good. When the inspector starts to walk, or as he is called, the inspector or social service representative of the apartments, and when he starts to look at the furniture in the apartments, things will be subjective to the dissipation in terms of the reduction in the number of families. This is how it's going to protect itself from the subjective factor. I understand what you're doing, but how about here? People fear this subjective factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u24	Thank you for asking and thank you for your appreciation. Not so often you can hear good words, thank you very much, because it's not a minister, it's people who work in villages, it's people who work in cities that work with our people, they go home to a disabled person to help them, so those kind words, I think they'll hear and they'll be grateful. Part of how the social inspector works. Dear colleagues, we have only one and a half thousand social inspectors in the country, and more than 750 social protection officers at the city and district level. So we don't have more than two inspectors on average. These inspectors are not only responsible for subsidies, but they are more likely to examine applications for other benefits. So to put it this way, if you want to get subsidies, you have units. It seems to me that a little premeditated gibberish is being given, including in the public opinion that many are walking. Not many go there. But on the other hand, I would like to say to everyone that the scarecrows who like to talk about how many of these social inspectors are digging into everything there, that's not true. The Social Inspector examines one thing: how objectively a person's income corresponds to his desire to receive subsidies. So he's checking, for example, that in 12 months large purchases have been made. But what is “a large purchase ”? This is determined by the account of 10 minimum pensions, which is today 880 bracelets per month. I mean, in 12 months, did any person buy a one-time purchase, not at all, but a one-time purchase of more than 8,000 880 bracelets. Agree that such a one-time purchase and refrigerator will come in, and the TV, and the oven of HlV, I beg your pardon, and the plumber, and the mass of other things. I mean, a private citizen, if he lives on his own pension and salary, he's afraid the inspector's gonna come and start somewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u25	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u26	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, my question is a little bit about the topic that's on the table today, but believe me, it's extremely relevant, and people are now worried about what I'm talking about right now. During the days of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a decision was to be made to conduct an experiment in the Volinsk region to provide monetary aid for the payment of electricity. I don’t know whether you remember it or not, but I do remember that in my time, the government has taken 253 decisions to replace the social benefits system with an address money. But it seemed to me that the decision was that they wanted to replace social benefits with money so that people and the benefits would be deprived and the money would not be received. So I want to understand, this time it's not going to be this way, another strategy is going to be in this experiment. Because I think we're going to have to solve this question, but under two essential conditions, condition one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u27	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u28	But under two essential conditions: the consent of man himself, the veteran himself, as he pleases, and the adequate replacement of the benefits, i.e. the percentage of his actual value. Under these two essential conditions, this question can be resolved. Otherwise, people will lose their benefits and will not receive financial assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I fully agree with you in part that any action by states to their citizens should go in principle, I apologize, first the citizens, and then everything else. And so your problem is completely, in my opinion, lying in the same ingredient, you two called it, but I see more in principle that if any movement on this subject is done, you have to do as you said correctly, if something changes, then according to the current legislation the financial security of these problems should be 100 percent. And that's why what's being offered to Volina today is, first of all, I would like to say, of course, we supported the idea of a district government that came up with such proposals. But when this was calculated, including in Minfin, first and foremost, it was in such a way that the cost of this problem would be sufficient for this experiment. I have some time, I'd like to add. Such heat all the costs that our citizens need to pay for subsidies, i.e. compensation from the budget to the housing and utility providers in our State in 2010 budgeted accordingly, are included in the 2011 draft budget. And we hope that in this session room the article on compensation for benefits and subsidies will be taken into account in full. So that when we adopt the 11-year budget, we can provide and guarantee these things. The Cabinet of Ministers, for its part, has set up some calculations in the full amount of funding for grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u30	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u31	Please give the floor to the national deputy Korjeu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u32	Vitaly Corge, "BUT" faction. I'm going on with the subject. It is well known that the government of Yulia Tymoshenko in the 2010 budget budget was allocated to Victory Day 9 May: War invalids 5180 Grivins, War II invalids 4,100 Grivins, and Third Group War invalids 3,600 Grivs. Our esteemed veterans report that the government of Azarov paid off: the first-group war invalids -- 1,000 dollars, the second-group war invalids -- 900 dollars, the third-group war invalids -- 800 dollars. Dear Vasil Ivanovich, this is my question. Why did the government of Azar cause an unwarranted reduction of five times and a fivefold loss?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u33	Of course, thank you for asking. I'd like to tell you a few things. Well, first of all, when we figured out how much we have to pay our esteemed veterans, and more precisely the size of 9 May, we pushed away from a few problems. Well, first of all, we looked at how it was done last year. And I want to prove to you that, according to the 2009 payments, this year's payments were increased by 40 percent. Next. We were focused on how and at what level such payments exist in our neighbors, in our Belarusians and in our Russian colleagues, because in principle these veterans, as it were, are hard to divide them across borders. I would like to prove to you that the size of our payments on this subject is being adjusted and very correct, I would like to say, because 40 percent of this year's increase has gone to the level of what our colleagues offer. There are some deviations in different categories, but in general we've come up with what's going on within the CIS. And the next. I would like to prove to you that our 2011 budget proposals also foresee an increase in payments to our esteemed veterans by May 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u34	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u35	Dear Vasil Ivanovich, Catherine Vaschuk, People's Party, Volin. I have this kind of question. Tell us clearly, will our people hear: will the benefits of the children of war be saved for those who were there as a percentage of the reduction in municipal fees? And second moment. There's fear in peasants that when they start counting everything they produce in dowry or where it was absolutely necessary, because otherwise no tenant went there to attach a pie, like on Polissa, a land scattered across many pieces of forest. And people put that pie in that town. How are these people supposed to be with subsidies? Don't they lose?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u36	Thank you for asking, Catherine Timothy. First of all, I would like to say that today, speaking of what's going on and how it's going on, all the changes in legislation that can affect a particular category of population is the exclusive competence of the honourable Parliament. And because of what decisions will be made in this hall, there will be an appropriate component of the situation in the state and in the relations of the state with the citizens. As far as the pies are concerned. I would like to point out that people are certainly asking questions. There's a couple of developmental options, as in the way that it happens in life. And that's how we react. Well, first of all, if this pie has a pensioner and a disabled person and in general, as it were, a person has no power to process and no one has given it up, then the proper decision of the relevant local commissions is what I said it's out of the question and it doesn't affect it in any way. That is, the subsidy will come from the fact that, if it's a village worker, it's his salary, if the pensioner is his pension. If he passed it on to someone. Well, for example, he leased, but he didn't make a deal on the subject, so then the local authorities properly accept, as it were, the indicators, how this can be taken into account and they accept, coming out of a particular situation. Not Kyiv gives these decisions and not even the district center, your authority will tell you how many people will be counted. And the last. If a person receives, leases and leases, then accordingly, if he is a cost, these costs will be included in the income, and if nature pays, this will be counted at prices. And last but not least, everything about the pies. It can only be the income from pies, not the cost. Sometimes people get scared by the incomprehensible talk that the subsidy is the cost of pies. Excuse me, the value of the land, personal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u37	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u38	For the cost of the land, of the portion, or of the pie, is not an indicator of the calculation of the pies. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u39	Please, Zebra’s Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u40	Dear colleague! Well, actually, there are, you know, different people. Social services also come and say: “Two TVs — a grant you may not claim. The repairs were made out of which money? And you will not pretend.” Such facts come from many parts of Ukraine today, and if so, I am ready to hand them over to you in order to accept them. Because, in principle, “he has become a fool to pray to God — he and his forehead will beat.” But the question in this part is how you're going to react. And the second question. Well, actually, there's incentive today to actually use more gas, more services, and then you get a bigger subsidy. Today, the government has stated that it is ready for unpopular action. One grandmother consumes so much gas — such a subsidy to her, and the other is more subsidized to her. It's time to go into monetaryization and make up for the fixed amount for all categories of the population. It's not very popular, but it's the right thing to do. And then incorporate them into the pension itself, the salary to get us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u41	I understood the question. Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that if one of the social protection workers or someone else comes to our esteemed citizens with subsidies and starts asking questions, I'd like to tell you, honourable national MPs, and to our distinguished public. That the calculation is that you have to spend on a person once, on one purchase, at least 10 minimum pensions or wages. So if two pensioners live, they have to spend at least 2 times 8,000 880 dollars on something. So it's more than 17.5,000 dollars. And so if someone there, well, I'm sorry, is missing this from our employees, give this example and we'll figure it out. Officially, my fellow citizens, if there are, that's why a hot line is made for the citizens, you always know how to turn. Let's figure this out. Next question. We'll take care of everyone, come on. It's impossible, it's, I'm sorry, it's not just a crime to some extent. You have to do more with this person than just say you don't have to do that. And part of the fact that one grandmother spends more and one less. The first part of the answer. A man pays his own money. The more it spends on residential services, the more its ingredients. And if a person saves, then they can pay, if we talk about a pensioner, we have these examples, the marginal number, 10 percent, no more. But when a person saves and doesn't completely choose the standards of actual, actual cubic meters of gas, cubic meters of water and all that, we have examples of people paying not 10 percent, not even 8 percent. It's a montage. Any direction in cutting the coinage, I've already touched it when the honourable MP has already been asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u42	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u43	All we can do about replacing the benefits with the funds, as far as we can understand, is only if the state is able to do these things in the full extent of the relevant legislation. If not, it is a problem. Although, I would like to say, all these questions will come to this session hall again and, I'm sorry, the final decision will be the decision in the session room, because Parliament is changing laws, not the government. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u44	Please, Jarochek Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u45	Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the word to your colleague, Julia Kovalevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u46	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Vasily Ivanovic, often in my constituency, I hear a lot of questions from voters and a lot of concerns about the issue of subsidies. People often ask these questions. Concerned, first of all, did you count the amount of money in the budget if too many families applied for an assessment and what amount was set up in Gosbudget in 2011 to compensate for the subsidies? And the second question, which is also often: “Do they have the right to charge family subsidies, which are made up of nationals of other States?” Thank you very much. AN ADVANTAGE IN THE V.E. Thank you for asking. First. Before we took a decision in the form of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers on the simplification of the subsidy procedure, we understood that this would necessarily lead to a quantitative increase of those who wished, not only those who wanted but also those who actually received the grant, we had certainly all calculated first. We, I mean Minfin, Minpraci. We figured out the algorithm, as many people as possible, Minfin calculated how much resources needed to be made. I declare with full responsibility that the 2010 budget for grants is now fully funded. And there can be no doubt about it. Everything relating to the 2011 budget. The proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers in the 2011 draft budget fully account for 100 per cent of the grant requirements. On this point, everything in terms of financial support for this large process to date has been resolved on the scale of the State. The only thing that needs to be done by 2011 is for the budget to be adopted again, so to speak, by Parliament, because we believe that the figures are absolutely correct. Part of what to do if family members are foreign applicants. Not often, but there is a situation. They have the same right to a subsidy as Ukrainian citizens if they are officially registered and are residing in our State accordingly. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u47	Yes, please, Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u48	Garbage, Party of Regions. Vasily Ivanovich, well, first of all, I want to say that this experiment that you put in the Ministry, and the Cabinet of Ministers set up the Volin relative to electricity, it's specifically people who took it very positive because they're specifically going to get the funds, not the conditional kilowatts, watts and so on when they didn't feel the support of the state. And this was taken very positively by people, and I hope that this experiment will then spread across Ukraine. So the Voters of Volina are very grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers. As far as my question is concerned. You know, the question of utilities, it's not just utilities about them, so to speak, subsidies, subsidies and the kind of help that we give to those citizens who can't pay. A very big problem, in my opinion, is the quality of these services, because you know, especially in the wintertime, when people don't have warm water or when this warm water doesn't meet the standards that give normal temperature in the room where people live, older people and children live. This is one of the main problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u49	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u50	So I have a question for the following order. How do you work with the Ministry of Municipal Economy in Ukraine about how to improve this, really, the quality of services that people feel about what they are actually paying for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Yes, I agree with you that. And so it's an experiment on Volina to see how it's going to happen in practice, and if it's positive, there's definitely experiments to go on. If this is perceived as positive at first by the population and continues to be positive, we will certainly move on. Part of the quality of residential services. And I wouldn't want to take someone's bread, so to speak, because I'm the person in charge of the social component, including in the housing-communal part of the grant. But I would like to tell you that on this subject we work very closely with the LHK, because there are requirements of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister, who, speaking of subsidies and overall housing and utilities, are certainly the basis of what is said to be the quality of housing services. And all that even for subsidies is done, on the one hand, to make it better for citizens, on the other hand, to give additional impetus to development for the reform of our housing and utilities. I think it's the creation of two interests: the interests of the state and the housing-communal. The interests of citizens and housing and utilities – and allowing the subsidy process to produce a positive outcome as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u52	Please, Yegorenko, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u53	Yegorenko Tamara, Party of Regions. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, there is a situation where people are denied grants because of this. That they are unable to provide information on the income of those family members who have been absent from the place of registration for several years. For example, marriages have been divorced, and relationships have not been maintained. Or simply the whereabouts of a person are unknown. It is not enough that the family has been paying for this guy for years, nor can it count on help. Does the Ministry plan to address this issue, allowing such families to receive social support from the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. You're absolutely right, and we have quite a number of variations, as it were, when registered together, there, for example, with the parents of children who are already working, they're gone and, I'm sorry, they're lost. What should we do? First of all, there are several choices to this solution, and they already exist. The people who have left but are formally registered and do not maintain relations with their parents, there or with other people who live in one or the other room, they should first turn to the commission at the local authorities -- this committee that I said. The commission can make decisions -- and that's a lot of facts -- when, given the specific situation that, for example, a pensioner lives in a house, and the kids have long gone, it's decided to exclude these people, and to grant a grant, even though someone is formally prescribed. Next. A person can ask the provider of residential services -- and we have this, as it were, perhaps -- to wipe out someone who doesn't live. Well, I'm sorry, usually neighbors know who lives, who doesn't live, and who lives where, you know. So today there are several variations. If it's complicated at all, I'd say, if it's resisting: there are local authorities, there's a task set by the government in such a way that we respond to a particular situation on subsidies, not just on paper. Therefore, the village head, the city head, the village commission, or the city commission, at the end of the Social Protection Authority, may come, let us find out. If anything comes up, there's a hot line -- we're going to lead to an option that's going to set up our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u55	Please, Nicholas Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u56	I ask you to give the floor to Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u57	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u58	Stone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u59	Please, Kamchatny's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u60	Kamchat, MP “Reforms for the Future”, Kharkushkin. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, I am very familiar with the work of the Department of Labour and Social Protection in my district, in my native District. I want to say that there are very responsible people working there, especially Chief Stanczyk, people who are doing a lot to resolve these issues right now in response to the need for urgent help. I am deeply grateful to them and ask you to express your deep appreciation for this. And the question may be a little unexpected: What steps have been taken by these people to increase the amount of work they have done since the end of the day, and on the weekends, and I know what steps are being taken by your ministry to stimulate, to support, perhaps materially, these workers who are now in great need?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. And even more so, thank you for assessing the work of our experts. Of course, people work, we certainly hope that we will be able, as it were, to delve the situation into the peak rise of those who want to form a subsidy. But I'd like to tell you, my dear colleagues, that we already had examples, there were situations where we had a large, large number of people who wanted to shape the situation accordingly. In the early 2000s, we had millions of families asked for subsidies, and they came and formed them accordingly. Thus, the experience of our system in increasing the number of people who want to form a grant exists. For our part, we develop and offer, including in places of use, both material and, as it were, moral incentives to encourage our people who work. We believe that in general, despite some criticism that is objective in some cases, our system as a whole not only works now but is also ready to do so if the number of people who want to form the grant increases, we will be able to do so in order not to have large queues and long waits. For my part, I would like to refer to you, honourable national deputies, to the public, to our population. We have hot lines, both state and district, hot lines, hot phones that can be used all the time and at the local level. So in any case, when something's not working out, you make a phone call. And not for us to go there and someone there, I'm sorry, something was pressed against whom, no. First, we will resolve the issue of getting what our citizens need from the grant system and then find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u62	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u63	And so I would like to say, if there are such examples alone, let's go together, give information, let's find out. Let's decide, I promise you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u64	Time's up. Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. This is the second time you have answered questions from national deputies. And I think it's not just a question of national MPs, it's what worries people, really, about the situation that we're discussing. Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. So let us move on to the next Friday question. This is about requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Mikola Potapchuk refers to the President of Ukraine for the restoration of train routes No.955/956 through Kovel Kamin Kashirsky, Kamin Kashirsky Kowel and No. 823/824, by Lutsk-Kyiv, Kiev-Luck. Please identify yourself with the support of a query. [[11:08:26]] For-80 Request not supported. Sergey Tereshuk's request to the President of Ukraine for a situation in the barrel sugar sector. Please identify yourself with support. Vote. [[11:08:50]] For 229 Request supported. Now I'm putting to the vote a motion for an application to the President. Please vote. [[11:09:10]] For 254 The request is being sent. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on ignoring the Embassy of Ukraine in the Russian Federation, the presence of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Russian Federation, which participated in the Second Games of Parliamentarians of Europe. [[Kolicea, Serbia and others, only 9 deputies]] Please identify yourself with the support of a query. [[11:09:50]] Z-62 Not supported. Igor Sharov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supervisory Board of the National University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenk, on improving the security system among the student youth of the country, strengthening the monitoring of its proper implementation, as well as the urgent need to take comprehensive measures to address the case as soon as possible as possible after the disappearance of student Irina Lazarenko. Victor of Sweden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper execution of the Prime Minister's mandate. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of the adventurous policy of power, which is to not pay due compensation to the liquidators of the accident at CHAES and the victims of the accident, even after they have won their cases in the courts of all institutions. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the school to be closed in the village of Rudna in the Mid-Bud region of Suma. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister for violating the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain laws on social protection of the population living in observation zones” in the draft new Code on Taxation of the Assembly on the socio-economic compensation of the risk of the population living in the area of observation of the Rhine AES. [[30 Kilometer Zone]] Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures to address the price situation in the country's food market and to monitor the non-admission of artificial pricing. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to repair roads in the Luboml region of Volinsk, and primarily to the village of Zabrzej. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister for lack of medical care for children with disabilities with birth defects. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service on the use of urgent measures to protect the property rights of citizens in land areas whose actions are unprecedented in the insolence of the raid by representatives of the entire Ukrainian civil organization, the Coalition of Orange Revolution participants, accompanied by the destruction of property, the falsification of documents and court decisions, including the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinski to the Prime Minister for the creation of conditions that correspond to the status of the national historical monument, the outstanding museum and archaeological complex of the National Reserve of Hersones Tavrian. Oleg Zarubinski to the Prime Minister on the threats to the life and health of the inhabitants of the village of Turbów in the Winnitsky region, created by blocking the work from eliminating the consequences of an emergency. Alexander Fomin to the Prime Minister on the multi-month delay in paying the employees of the Kharkiv state agrolisomielorative company Harkovoblagrolis and the failure to take effective measures to respond to these violations of the law by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. Paul Ungurian to First Deputy Prime Minister, Ministry of Environmental Protection, on investigating the causes of the environmental disaster in Odessa in connection with regular emissions into the air of harmful substances. Paul Ungurian to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Environmental Protection, Acting Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Water Management on the emergency situation in the town of Vilkov, Odessa region in connection with the annual submergment of the city by the waters of the Danube River. Sergia Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Director General of the State Enterprise Ukrwakcin for the verification of possible abuses while represented by the legal company Traut-Kecheris, the interests of the State in foreign jurisdictions. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need to carry out a financial and economic audit of the Child Enterprise of the National Shareholder Company, Nadra Ukraine, Poltavanaftogasgeology, to find out why he has been subjected to artificial bankruptcy, the role of officials in the Ministry of the Environment of Ukraine and the listed enterprises, the protection of employees' interests, the involvement of those responsible for the actual destruction of the enterprise. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the ignorance of the Embassy of Ukraine in the Russian Federation of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Russian Federation, which participated in the Second Games of Parliamentarians of Europe. [[A stake, a Serbian, and others. Total 9 deputies]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of illegal privatization of the Open Shareholder Society "2nd Petrovsky Sugar Plant", the gross violation of the constitutional rights of employees of the factory for work, illegal dismantling, exportation and sale at reduced prices of technical equipment, motor vehicles for factory management, inappropriate response to the alleged facts by the authorities of the state, including the law enforcement authorities of the Kirovgrad area, the re-establishment of the plant and the provision of its employees with jobs. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the State Treasury of Ukraine, the Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Gennadia Stadnik, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the execution of the court's decision to pay a guarantee contract to the Society with limited liability to Frunze Flora and on the prosecution of guilty persons. [[Ribakova, Chaplin and others. Total 9 deputies]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Kiev City Administration to take measures to prevent the destruction of the international historical park "Kyoto", located in the Desnjan district of Kiev, and established as a sign of the coexistence of the capital of Kiev and the cultural capital of Japan-Kyoto, which could lead to the deterioration of Ukraine's international relations with Japan, would undermine the authority of the state in the international arena, resulting in violations of the rights of the citizens of Kiev to environmental security and prosperity. Boris Tarasyuk to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the need for a negotiated settlement of issues related to the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. Valeria Baranova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Inadequate Reimbursement from the State Budget for the Expenses of the Open Shareholders Association "Tokmatke Automotive Company 12308" related to the transport of the population's income categories. Valeria Bevenza to the Head of the Security Service regarding the situation in the village of Winnicki Hootori Winnicki district, Winnicki district, in connection with illegal activities in the field of land relations, as well as the abuse of the position of officials in the region, resulting in numerous violations of the constitutional rights of citizens in the area. Vladimir Danilenko to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the development of a new bill design with 10 bracelets, no offense to John Mazepa. Gennady Zadirk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General for the gross violation of criminal and procedural law, constitutional rights of citizens and for the adoption of unfounded procedural decisions by the head of the Investigation Department of the Special Investigations Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region. Eugene Zarkov to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the promotion of nationalistic and xenophobic literature in the library of the name of the High City of Odessa. Edward Prutnik to the Pension Fund, High Council of Justice, on the need to consider a collective appeal on behalf of persons with disabilities in the Nizhin region of Chernigiv on the payment of a state and additional pension for damage caused by health in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Edouard Prutnik to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the Ukrainian State Committee on Water Management, the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of members of the Kolesnik Rural Council of the Nižin Region of Chernigiv Region and the examination of the procedure for the selection and use of water fund land in the Old Camp class. Eugene Kzarow to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the rule of law and the use of urgent measures of response regarding the appeal of members of the public organization "Do not be silent!" the cities of Odessa. Catherine Vaschuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the urgent need to complete the Lokachin District Hospital in Volin County with an X - ray. Kirila Kulikova to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the signing between Ukraine and the Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China of the Hong Kong of an agreement on the mutual withdrawal of visas and the conditions set out in the document for Ukraine’s foreign political commitment. [[Hong Kong]] Alexander Shepeleva to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to provide medical offices in the general schools of the Žitomir region. Alexander Schepeleva is under the responsibility of the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Use of Measures to Avoid Human Victims as a result of Land Massacre in the city of Krivi Rig Dnipropetrovsk. Roman Zabzaluk to the head of the High Council of Justice regarding the failure to answer by the head of the Council of Judges of the Mikolai District of Fedor Juba to a parliamentary appeal for a possible unjust decision by Judge Alexander Savini of the South Ukrainian City Court. Sergei Gordienka to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District State Administration, on the need to provide immediate targeted assistance to the Wilkhovite School of Education in the 1st degree of the Premyslánsk district of Lviv district in order to create proper conditions for teaching children. groups of people’s deputies (Komara, Samoylenka, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the financing of housing and utility facilities in 2010 at the expense of the Stabilisation Fund. Andrew Pavlovski to the Attorney General on the results of the criminal investigation of hospitalization and the death of children from boarding school in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv district. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the beating by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the State Enterprise Ukrespecexport, Dmitr Solomatin, Director of the State Science and Production Enterprise Thermocool. Andrew School to the Attorney General on improper response to illegal acts and numerous violations of the use of reconstructed premises at Lviv, General Chuprinka Street, 5. Boris Tarasyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for protesting the illegal decision of the 42nd session of the Zaporozhye District Council to grant Russian regional status in the area. Victoria Demionczuk to the Attorney General on the illegal violation of a criminal case in relation to the resident of a city village of the solitude of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the violation of criminal and procedural law by the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal detention of state-owned property rights in the area of the inhabitants of the Visgrad region of the Kyiv region and on the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility. Gennady Zadirka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for signs of falsification by the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Donetsk Region of the reply to a parliamentary appeal made by the manner in which the prosecutor's reply was addressed, instead of the original signature of the Prosecutor of the Donetsk Region, faxed to his signature and other questions. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General about the criminal offence and the criminal responsibility of the purchasers and organizers of the kidnapping and murder of journalist Gongadze. Eugene Wolinz to the Attorney General about the non-payment of salaries to employees of the utility company Chernigiv Trolleybus Authority. Igor Aleksiev to the Attorney General on the verification of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the abuse of office and the use of measures of prosecutorial response regarding business managers: the Open Shareholders Association "Polon Mining Combine", the Municipal Business of the City Council "The Housing and Communication Association", the Children's Enterprise "The Hmielnic Specialised Construction Authority "Stalconstruction - 129", the State Enterprise Scientific and Labour Collective "The Accurate Mechanics Plant", the Closed Association "Agriwood". [[City of Netishin]] [[The city of Hmelnicki]] [[Kamyanec-Podilski]] [[Yarmolinsk Region]] Mikoli Krawchenka to the Attorney General, the Zaporozhye District Administration, the Zaporozhye District Council, the State Tax Administration in the Zaporozhye Region on the violation of a criminal case against the Society with limited liability in Zaporozhye, according to the facts set out in a letter from the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Attorney General for failing to comply with the requirements of environmental and epidemiological legislation by the Society with limited responsibility "Elita Agro-M" in the village of Malinovka, Malinov region, Malinsko region, Sorry, district of Žitomir district. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General on the misconduct of the employees of the Pustomitov District Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Lviv region. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General for protesting the decision of the Uzgorod City Council of August 27, 2010, which sparked a sharp opposition in society. Alexia Plotnickov to the Attorney General for dissatisfaction with the parliamentary appeals regarding the consideration of a citizen named Anatoly Katsapczuk, who had suffered from hooliganism. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General on the long-term and systematic infringement of labour rights by the management of the Akumen Outsourcing branch, located in Ordjonikidze Dnipropetrovsk district. Andrew School for the Lviv City Head on the illegality of building a residential building in the area of a fire in the Galician district of Lviv. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Zaporozhye District Council on the unconstitutional and illegal decision of the Zaporozhye District Council to grant the Russian language regional status in an area that is a demonstration of devotion to anti-Ukrainian, pro-Russian forces and ignorance, since the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages protects languages that threaten to disappear on the planet. In the near future, Russian language is likely to disappear. All the questions that came. Let us now consider the issues of the reports of the interim commission of inquiry. A report from the interim commission of inquiry on the issue of the use of budgetary resources by the Heads of the State Committee on the State Reserve is being submitted. Commissioner Olijný Volodymir Mikolaiovich asks for the report for three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This is a preliminary report from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the main tasks of the Interim Investigation Commission, namely: clarifying the circumstances of the dissipation of budgetary resources by the Heads of the State Committee from the State Reserve, establishing compliance with the requirements of the Act for the implementation of the State Reserve for Economic Activities and establishing a reasonable basis for the conclusion of contracts for the acquisition and implementation of commodity values. The rationality and relevance of budget spending, the study of the circumstances of distortion of reporting records, the circumstances of document counterfeiting, and the abuse of power and authority by the leadership of the State Department. The interim commission had already held two meetings. Of course, the influence and the vacation campaign. Adequate requests have been made and approved to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, the State Reserve, the Court of Auditors, the Head of State, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Tax Administration for receiving relevant information. To date, the Temporary Investigation Commission has received the following information. According to the HeadCRO, the tests cover all companies responsible for the maintenance. That's 711 companies in charge of the state-owned reserve and 940 companies in charge of the mobilization reserve. The previous test of the HeadCRA has established the irreparable loss of government stocks of over 7 billion dollars, but this is still a preliminary test. Out of the total number of savings companies in 547 enterprises, 76 percent of all depositors, the availability of state reserve material values is not confirmed. So the chamber is our national void. In addition, according to the Head of State, the state has incurred a loss of 4.2 billion dollars due to ineffective financial management. The commission provides for the Ukrainian people to be informed and informed in accordance with the decree of the Supreme Council. In addition, we plan meetings with national deputies and high officials, inviting them to the meetings. In particular, Bogdan Hubski gives a very interesting witness in his interview, which claims (this is "Ukraine's Truth" since September 13th), which states that Turkinov was the curator of the Direct Reserve, and he personally informed him that sugar could be bought for 7 bracelets, paid for 11 bracelets, but no sugar. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again, I quote an interview. He also speaks of the fact that he warned Turkinov that they had sold gas from the Reservoir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u66	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u67	At the price of $2,000,400. Here's the answer to those tariffs, discounts and so on. The Commission will continue its work and will fully inform the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people of the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u68	Questions? Sign up for questions. Please, Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u69	Please pass on the word to Andrew Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u70	Cosemyakina’s Microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have a question. He is speaking on the rostrum and says that this is the previous report. I have a question: what is the norm that he makes the previous report, especially since the commission headed by this gentleman has never met and has not once met? That's the first one. The second question. According to Mr. Olivenic, he said that someone had told him, somewhere. I want to inform you, and all the national deputies, that in the government never the First Vice Prime Minister, by the way, like Mr. Kluev today, also Mr. Turkinov, when he was in charge when he was First Vice Prime Minister, never smoked the Reservoir. The Minister of Economics is always in charge. If you don't know, that's why I remind you a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u72	Let me answer that. We are acting in accordance with the requirements of the ruling, including the term of office of the commission for six months, and the report of the interim commission on the three-month deadline. So we're doing it today. As far as your latest information is concerned. I tell you again that in my interview with Bogdan Hubsky, who is well informed, says Turkinov was the curator of the reserve. So not only do we have a shadow economy, we also have shadow leadership, where one is actually managing one, but it's legally responding to the other. This is what we need to establish. And don't be afraid of it. And Bogdan Hubsky, he's a well-informed man. And I think we need to clarify these situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, it's very simple. In fact, the state reserve enters and subordinates almost the Ministry of Economics, but someone is responsible for the Ministry of Economics from the Deputy Prime Minister. It's probably the First Deputy Prime Minister, so there's absolutely nothing here. Just as it can be said that the Prime Minister is in charge of every department that heads and joins the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't see any problems here. Squibby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u74	Please pass the word to the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u75	School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u76	Thank you. Actually, the previous report was about quoting an interview given by Bogdan Hubsky. It's certainly a great honour for one of the national MPs, but I think this honor should have been given somewhere in the towers and journalists, rather than using the rostrum of Parliament, using the leadership of a commission that, I confirm, has never met and is in principle a completely formal one. I think in principle the whole performance, the whole coming to the rostrum of yours was caused to quote Hubsky. It's just that you'd have to ask for yourself to come here and tell us all about it, not come here and act as his promoter and commit yourself to quoting from the rostrum of the Supreme Council as head of the commission of inquiry, a sufficiently respectable body of his word. You ask him to come forward and tell us all about it, and to be a black pianist here, who owed you the political power to which you turned, but of course it's an honorable role, but I don't think it's worthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u77	You know, if there's a fact of theft, it needs to be investigated. Don't be nervous. And as for the work of our commission and my report, it should have been invested in three minutes. I could read a lot here, starting with the CRU, where there's dozens of leaves, and the Reserve, which shows that there's not enough supplies to help us keep the price today, do the intervention. And separate things, you'll think about it! They paid 11 bucks for sugar and no sugar. [[And it's a fact established, it's being investigated.]] Few things have been overpriced, sugar has not been put in place. So in this respect, I say again, we discussed that the commission's plan was to invite high-ranking officials and MPs who themselves reveal criminal connections in your faction. It's not for me, it's for your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u78	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u79	Thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, well, I want to turn to the opposition for three seconds. You know, we're all on our own recently, and I respect you and respect your hard and ungrateful work of raising public opinion. I just don't get the fear of the panic you've got there. Well, what did Bogdan Hubsky say? What are you fighting about? Take care of your Hubsky. Don't you all have a gun? I can't believe it. I don't see the opposition trying to get to the truth, and that, for example, worries me. This is from Lenin, remember, “the party of power is covering its own bastards”. You are no longer “authority” – what are you covering for the unkind deeds of those who were once done? I have a question for the committee head. Commissions. Finally, when do you expect the final report to be completed? And the second question: Tell me, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, which government authorities or institutions do you still expect to receive the documents, so that we can get a full, clear and clear assessment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u80	Well, I want to tell you what else we're expecting from the B.B.I., the D.A., and the D.A. There's already a CRU of previous materials and a Reservoir. But notice, it's very interesting that, for example, the same Derzrezerv, having received the relevant acts of the CRU, sent 471 calls to the C.R.U.S.A., sorry, to B.S.U. 108, to the D.S.A. 322, to the D.A. 322, to the D.A. 41 about the facts of the theft, and only 35 criminal cases have been violated, that is, this job needs to continue. Even now we've determined that those people who were involved in the theft or, for example, were involved in the execution of criminal orders: pay money -- and don't put up the goods, don't buy it -- they continue to take office. [[such a high price]] So ask questions about their temporary removal from office. Either it's the central authority, or it's the investigator. And so in this respect, I think we're about six months away, which is planned by commission and determination, we're going to be willing to give a full assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u81	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Keep working so that the terms assigned to the committee and the report can be effective. We are hearing a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the legality of decision-making by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about competitions and the establishment of language license winners using appropriate frequencies in 2005-2010. [[reshape]] The head of the interim commission of theological Inna Hermanovna. Yes, Inna Hermanovna, you ask for an hour to report. We're doing this, I'm sorry. We're sorry, we can't afford that. Give me 15 minutes to report, and we'll see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u82	Thank you. Thank you. We'll figure it out in 15 minutes. The commission was going on vacation, on vacation, and on vacation. Unfortunately, the opposition is once again demonstrating its unequal approach, and it has not given its representatives to this temporary commission of inquiry. At the same time, we -- the coalition put our representatives before the commission headed by Mrs. Heratchenko, and we consider it necessary for all to be MPs, regardless of where they are today, whether in power or opposition, to pay attention to issues of enormous social importance. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that before we heard the interim investigator's report, today we will hear, even before the courts decided on this issue, a huge noise was raised in the middle of the country, and, unfortunately, beyond the borders of Ukraine. And the opposition has done everything to name the licenses of January 27, 2010 TV channels and the 5th channels, and I want to say that this is part of the frequency at which they announce that this is a denial of freedom of speech. This information has also been distributed in PARE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and the independent organizations “Reporters Without Borders” and the MPs of the parliaments of Germany, Britain and so on. This is a permissive behavior and today I want to go to the MPs with a huge request: let's not tarnish the country abroad and let's not use political speculation to cover up illegal actions. The task of the interim commission of inquiry is, over the course of the year, to carefully study all of the activities of the Nakrad in terms of obtaining frequencies for 2005-10 and to make sure that in the coming years of this huge politicization of the activities of this body, which we have seen in 5-10 years, the members of the Nakrad understand that they cannot act unlawfully, that justice will come. Today we are in power, tomorrow you are in power -- we need to make sure everyone understands that punishment will come for illegal acts. We have had the opportunity to make more than 90 requests, 97 requests, we have asked through the newspaper Voice of Ukraine to all citizens and representatives of all Ukrainian broadcasters with the proposal to provide information they have, documents, information about violations of the activities of the Nakrad. We've got a huge number of documents, and based on these documents, we're doing today's previous report. One, the trend that we've seen and that's going to be in the next subject of the TSC study, is that in 2005-10 there was a tendency to squeeze state television companies out of the media space for the benefit of commercial structures. There were several state broadcasters who had repeatedly participated in competitions and received no license. We see that this is a trend, and we're going to do everything we can to learn the reasons for this state of affairs. And I would like to pay particular attention, honourable deputies, that the 21st century is in the yard, and we have areas and huge parts of the area, especially in the West and in the North of Ukraine, which have no Ukrainian media at all -- neither radio nor television. These regions have broadcasts on their territory in several cases of 25 foreign media outlets and no Ukrainian media. THE 21st century in the yard, the 2005 Nazrad, from 5th to 10th, in five years, did nothing to eliminate this problem. So I'm sure it's an assignment for us, too, and that's why we're proposing today to go to Nacrada and the government to modernize media policy and media strategy for the distribution of Ukrainian media space across the territory of an independent sovereign country, and we believe that this issue will continue to be investigated by the TSC. We also have a huge number of complaints about the content of broadcasts, especially on television. And the Nakrad as the body that has to oversee the execution of the licensing conditions, in our view, has not done everything that depends on it to control the performance of the licensing conditions. We've been informed that we already have accurate information and documents that some films that can be viewed as erotic, sexual, and on the verge of that, for example, by a special commission on morals of the Ministry of Culture as enlightening. We have great reason to believe that there is great corruption on this background, and that will also be in the future for the work of the TSC, and we invite representatives and opposition to work at the TSC, as before. If you, like us, are concerned about the message, please join us and work together. The issue of TV licenses and the “5 channel” we set out in a separate chapter because it has a huge emphasis today in society, and it will be considered on October 5th at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Our task was to study all the materials and documents and to see if it was really an attempt to find out, we already know this term is now distributed to independent media, whether it's still a violation of the illegal decisions that were made on January 27th. We unanimously came to the only possible conclusion. On January 27, 2010, the National Council adopted a decision that violated the law harshly and deliberately. I'm going to tell you a very short story, and you're all going to realize how arrogant the behavior of those members of the Nacrad who went to a conscious violation of the 27th of January law between the two presidential election tours. First. The contest was launched on December 16, 2009. It was announced on low - power transmitters up to 10 watts. This competition began on December 16th, and on December 16, TV, which is today the most vocal of all about the attack on freedom of speech, appealed to the court and was ordered by the court to prohibit this competition. Thus, since December 16, 2009, a ban on the holding of competitions and the issuing of licences for this competition has been in force. A number of times Nakrad appealed to the court to remove the ban, but the ban was not lifted. I mean, the Front of the 27th of January deliberately went to meetings for a court order to hold this session. First. The other one. Since January 1, 2010, the Government of Timoshenko has issued a decree prohibiting the issuance of analog frequencies in connection with the development of a programme for the conversion of Ukrainian television companies to digital television. So since January 1, 2010, these government officials knew that no analog frequency competition could be held, the more the infringement was available, because on January 27, all the members of the Nacrada knew that no analog frequency competition could be held. Third. Everyone knows that the quorum for the meeting of the Nakrad is six persons, a norm that is clearly stated in the law. On January 27, with the violation of these standards at the Nakrad meeting, five members of the Nakradah participated, only they signed a protocol and it was a direct violation of the law because they could not help but know that at the time of the decision and at the time of the meeting of the Nakradah the quorum should be 6 persons. Thus, in violation of the law, a decision was taken on January 27th, and the following day, I would like to say, not when the new President appeared in the state, not when the new authority came, but the following day, statements were made by several national deputies to the Attorney General's Office and members of the Nacrada who did not take part in the January 27th meeting, to the Attorney-General's Office that the January 27th competition was conducted with a rude and deliberate violation of the law. The following day, on January 29, 2010, the Attorney -General’s Office ordered the annulment of Nacrada’s illegal decision. This provision was officially filed with the Nakradah, as recorded in the documents, but despite the procurator general’s ruling, Nakrad not only did not cancel her illegal decision but continued to grossly violate the law. This insolence simply gives the impression that someone was planning to remain in power forever. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I'd like to say that the contest was held on a transmitter of up to 10 watts. Do you know what apps were issued after even the Attorney General's Office indicated that there was an illegal contest? The apps were issued for increased power to 2.5 thousand W. These apps were issued by violating all applicable laws and regulations, and these supplements were issued in the absence of payment of a license assembly for more than 8 million dollars. So the state's damage right now to about $1 million, the damage I'm sorry, the damage caused, and today we're seeing just deliberate direct actions that can't even make sense. We can see that TV has done a bad job in this case. Because they themselves banned the competition through the court and held the ban until February 9. It was only February 9, 2010, that the ban on the competition was lifted at the request of TVVi, that is, after one of them received the decision of Nacrada for her own benefit. Under these circumstances, I think that even in the opposition there will be no more reason to say that the failure of the illegal competition on January 27, 2010 is an attack on freedom of speech and the reduction of broadcasting channels. It was an insolent attempt to deprive the state of its property of its frequent resources. It was an insolent attempt to obtain illegal apps that did not pay more than 8 million dollars in the licensing congregation. It was a direct violation of all the rules in force. And today we've had since the last session of our interim commission of inquiry, at the end of the day, we've had reason to think, why did this happen? Not only did the authorities have to change in the country, but we know that January 27 was right in the middle of the first and second rounds, when it was already understood that the trend of change of power was present. But we got a statement in writing in the presence of all the members of the TSC, one of the former members of the Nacrada, who directly said that on January 27, Nacrad was not going to continue the competition. But the responsibilities of Nakrad’s head at that time, Mr. Miroshnick, were called to the President’s Office at lunchtime. And when he returned after 14 hours to Nacrada, he texted his subordinates to Nacrada, and with direct violation of the law they went to make decisions about these licenses. It's a direct politicalization of the process, it's a direct involvement of the government in Nakradya's activities. And then we understand why the law was so insolent and unrepentantly broken, for someone thought it would be forever and someone would cover for them. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the decision we have made. And there's something about this determination that we have to do with you. We have to send these materials to Paris so that European Parliamentary MPs can see how they speculate on the subject of freedom of speech by those non-lethal media market participants and officials who are today trying to scream about the attack on freedom of speech in this part, to close their illegal actions during the illegal receipt of licences on January 27, 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u83	Thank you. Is there a question? Please sign up. That's enough of the 5th. Yes, please, five minutes, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u84	Please give a specialist the freedom of speech to the dry word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u85	Dry is a specialist, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am once again forced to appeal to the opposition that to your disgraceful conduct, to the disgraceful conduct of opposition, which, in order to achieve a questionable capital, has gone down to the lie and to the desecration of the native state. [[I say softly, I don't use the word otherwise]] But you should remember that the “oppositions”, the “catalyses” come and go, and the Ukrainian state, its prestige, its reputations remain forever. I would like to remind those colleagues who have studied as I have at the university, there is a good Latin proverb: “ “ I’m sorry. ” [[speak Latin]] “Poor and drinker who throws into his own nest.” Remember before it's too late. In other words, please tell me this information that you gave, first of all I don't know, thank you, because this is the first time I've thanked such a report from the interim commission of inquiry. What is the next step in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u87	Thank you, I answer. First of all, the facts that we've just set up, we've been able to establish a little bit more on account of the fact that we were able to communicate in Parliament, but the court has also established a big fact when we're considering TV complaints. And today we have a separate approval of the Kyiv District Court of Appeal to the Attorney General's Office, where the court has explicitly indicated that he sees criminal offences in the actions of members of the Nacrada. We ask Parliament today to support the ruling that this report of the interim commission of inquiry should be sent to the Attorney-General's Office so that they can examine the additional evidence that we have received so that they can do the work that they have to do in a month that they have today for a separate court order to do. Besides, I'm sure these cases of complaints of violations of the Nakrada activities that we've yet to receive are due to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u88	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u89	Thank you. Everyone was invited to provide information. We will be able to correct Ukraine’s legislation, which makes holes in which lawless officials can commit crimes. We agreed that we would make a special session of our temporary commission of inquiry, invite experts to cover these gaps in legislation that we also have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u90	Please, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u91	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Inna Hermanovna, you have used the term “insolently” 36 times in your speech, describing the actions of previous members of the Nakrad. Obviously, the whole country and the MPs are more interested, not in what happened in the past, but in what will happen in the future. Recently, the entire Parliament saw the formation of a new Nacradia warehouse, where more than half of it is controlled by one of the country’s largest television channels. Recently, public organizations have asked the President of Ukraine to consider the possibility of appointing members of the National Council of a person who, when voting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has won more votes in the rating vote and represents professional mediators.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u93	At the meeting of another commission of inquiry, members of the coalition of this commission were firm against such an approach. You're apparently not a member of the coalition, do you think the President of Ukraine should support this proposal from the Public Council of Television and Languages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u94	Thank you. First of all, I'm a member of the coalition, and I'm a supporter of the coalition being folded as soon as possible. Secondly, I want to tell you that if this Nakrad is going to act as boldly as it has been, then they should also be punished. I think it is very important for us today that we show that there will be no more irresponsibility. And for today’s authorities, and for today’s officials, the vaccine that we will give and show that we cannot violate the law is very important. You can, you know, interpret when there's something to interpret. But if there is a restraining order, there is no way to hold a hearing. If the quorum is 6 people, 5 people can't decide. If there is a government decree that prohibits the issuance of such frequencies, they cannot be issued. Today we have the question of, in the end, we will put an end to the insolence and indemnity that has existed in the country for the last five years when every official.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u96	Every official had the honor of breaking the law. The question of Nakrad’s composition does not refer to the work of a temporary commission of inquiry. I am sure that you and I should make legislation that will oblige us to have representatives of independent media in the formation of the Nacra. But this is a question of our work with you. And if you, as an opposition, continue to go only to the TSCs that are good for you and not to go where you've reminded the past, and you don't want to correct the mistakes, there's nothing normal about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do this. We heard a report, answers to questions. Sit down, Inno Hermanovna. We have another, you see, one report. Even after the cook's report. But I think it would be logical for us to hear another report on this subject from our colleague Heratchenko after the break. Asked questions. And then both of these reports, which one of them, huh? No breaks? Those who encounter each other would discuss and make decisions. Then Roman Mikhailovich was heard. No objections? No breaks. Okay. Please. Yes, I'm sorry. Who's for working without a break, please vote. [[12:00:43]] For 101 Dear colleagues, I'll explain the situation again. When we work continuously, we will reduce our meeting time by 30 minutes. In that sense, without interruption? Once again, I put the vote to a nonstop vote, without interruption, but 30 minutes before the meeting. Please vote. [[12:01:18]] For 280 Oh, second hand. Yes, there is. Then please listen to the report of the Interim Investigative Commission on Censorship Investigations in the Media, the pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine, and the obstacles to the legitimate professional activity of journalists. The head of the Commission, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Please, 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! I want to start by saying that given the topic of our TSC, this is an investigation into the cases of censorship in the media, the pressure on freedom of speech and the obstruction of legitimate professional activity of journalists, it's clear that we had very serious discussions between representatives of the coalition and the opposition working on the commission. Regarding the assessment of the situation in Ukraine, I want to say that the opposition was in general in favour of more harsh language on the situation in Ukraine, but we found compromise with colleagues from the coalition. And yet my colleague, Mr. Zubanov, from the faction of the regions, has a separate opinion. I'm asking you very much, I'll leave him two minutes to give him the floor to express his own opinion. Thus, pressure was preceded by a call by journalists to a professional committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a call by the TV teams and 5 channels to disenfranchise these speakers, and these were considered at a special session of the committee of profile, whose members supported the initiative to create a special commission of inquiry. Our TSC has been working with the National Association of Journalists of Ukraine, independent journalists, public journalists ’ organizations. During the work period, there were four sittings of a temporary commission of inquiry. And I want to say that special attention is given to this time of TVS to studying the circumstances of the disappearance of journalist Vasil Klementiev. Within two and a half months, the TSC has already received about 60 calls from public organizations, national deputies, and professional associations with complaints of censorship in the media. The interim commission of inquiry during this time has sent 15 requests to the competent authorities asking them to verify and respond to the State authorities. More than 30 people were invited to all the meetings of the interim commission of inquiry, representing not only the journalistic groups but also the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Nacrad, and other authorities. An analysis of TSK’s references shows that about 75 percent contain complaints of interference and pressure from government authorities and local authorities, and some 25 percent of appeals contain complaints about obstacles to legal professional activity. And the concern of the TSC is that most of the journalists' complaints are about the actions of law enforcement officials and tax administrations. And unfortunately, the number of such complaints is steadily increasing. The first full - time meeting of the TSC took place on July 8th, before that was only an organizational meeting on July 2, during which journalists were heard, whose appeal was widely resonated. In particular, journalist Sergey Kutrakov told us that while filming an exhibition in the Ukrainian House, the Berkut special forces prevented him from filming the fight. The TSC unanimously voted in favour of requesting the Henprosecutor’s Office to study the material of the case and facilitate its investigation. Similarly, the TSC studied the incident with BST journalist Sergei Andruszk, who was denied a criminal offence because of obstructing his professional activities and causing bodily harm by the State Protection Authority during a move by the President of Ukraine. And the members of the commission, by the way, unanimously sent such a request to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. It was also heard by the director of TVI Mikola Kneżický and the director of the “5 channel” John Adamchuk, who expressed their position that their channels had been illegally disbarred because of conflict of interest on the part of the Head of the Board of Directors Valerija Horoshkowski. The TSC sent a request to the HSP for violations of the rights of broadcasters and unanimously supported the request to the Henprocuratorate to check information on the unauthorized monitoring of TV channels and the involvement of those involved. As a result of the meeting, a request was also sent from the members of the TSK to the Henprocuratorate for compliance by the head of the Odessa District Public Administration with the requirements of effective legislation regarding the withdrawal of the district state administration from the number of co-founders of the newspaper Black Sea News. Today, TSK received replies from the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine that the Shevchenkov Court had annulled the Order on the Offence of a Criminal Case for a Utrakov. Sergey Andrusko was also denied the discovery of the criminal case. We got answers from the Berkutu leadership and the Department of State Department, refusing to even name the names of those bodyguards who beat up journalists. The same is true of the refusal of a criminal case to monitor Mikola Knieżicky. As for the history of licenses obtained by the “5 channel”, TV, the whole country saw a court that took place on August 30. And the Kyiv Court of Appeal canceled the results of the January Free Frequency Competition. TSK members representing opposition factions express their individual opinion and great concern that we do not have an official response from the country to the facts that can be seen as a hindrance to journalistic activity. Members of the opposition believe that journalists today never do. almost never can protect their rights even at the stage of the investigation. So we see that we just get write-offs, refusal to open a criminal case, or the case doesn't go to court, and that's what some of the answers to parliamentary requests from the authorities do. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the members of the TSC, representing the coalition, such as Landik, Koleshnenko, Zubanov, Dove, have expressed their commitment to the principles of freedom of speech and the willingness to defend the rights of journalists, but they have indicated that there is a separate position to avoid today's politicization, evaluation and prejudice when it comes to the issue of pressure on journalists. And respect the court’s decisions if such decisions have already been made. But, dear colleagues, all the members of the TSC agree with that and I think it's a huge problem of the Supreme Council that the letters that we send to the institutions and our requests for deputies to the authorities we just get formal notes on them. They do not contain answers to our questions. TSK members representing the opposition supported the call of public organizations to the President of Ukraine, asking to consider appointing a member of the Nacrada on his quota of a non-active professional. This would contribute to a truly independent and professional non-involved work of the regulator. On September 7, a TSC meeting took place, the main theme of which was the hearing of information about the disappearance of Vasil Klimentiev. A colleague of Vasil Klimentiev, a deputy of the newspaper, spoke there. The editor of the newspaper “New Style” Peter Matvienko, who informed the TSC that Basil Klimentiev was the author of many critical articles that exposed corruption in the forces of the Kharkiv region, particularly the district tax administration. Peter Matthewnko related the course of events when Klimentiev left the house on August 11, and did not return home. He expressed great concern about the protection of witnesses in this case, reported that Klimentiev’s family lawyer was detained in another criminal case, and today the civilian wife Klimentiev is under pressure because of tax structures. All members of the TSK supported the statement regarding the need for the Office of the Attorney General to take over the case in a special way. And those representatives of the GPU and the Ministry of Internal Affairs who were present at the meeting, particularly the Deputy Interior Minister Leonid Winter, acknowledged certain shortcomings in the investigation of the case, promised to pay particular attention to the problem of witness protection. Also at the TSK meeting, we gave special attention to another resonance issue -- this is an out-of-the-way audit by the tax administration of the largest non-state television company the Black Sea TRC Crimea, which actually blocked the work of this popular television company. A number of media representatives were also heard. I want to leave a simple word to my colleague Zubanov, but I want to say that there are a lot of complaints coming out today from regional journalists who are complaining about a few things: first, that the authorities are trying to put loyal editors in municipal media; if it doesn't work out, they're just trying to get out of the editors in order to leave the editors in such a way. All these references were sent to the prosecutor’s office, to other competent authorities. Dear colleagues, we're getting some receipts. It seems that we have strong structures to protect each other, not journalists at all. I leave my word to my colleague Mr. Zubanov. But I ask you very much, my fellow Members, especially members of the coalition, to support our decision, in which we actually take into account all the wishes that the President of Ukraine is making today: the need to improve the legislation to protect journalists, the need to actually investigate the resonances of journalists. Thank you. Please give me 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u99	To whom should I give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u100	Mr. Zubanov, who presents a separate opinion from the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u101	No, sorry, no one but you will have a word because you've used your 10 minutes. We had to divide five, then he would have. Questions. Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u102	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u103	You can ask, but there is a Rules. Please sign up for the questions. Yes, please, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Suhma Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u105	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna, unfortunately, the facts of censorship on the part of, I understand, the state, the power, or the pressure on freedom of speech I have not heard. They didn't let one in the fight, and they did a good job, because we'd still have to have one there. They gave it to him in the neck. The second one is running with some object that's unclear in his hands, as it turns out to be a camera or whatever it was, behind the President. Try to follow Obama or Sarkozy. I have a specific question, please tell me, in 2005, despite the victory of the Dnipropetrov Regional Broadcasting Company, the license to speak to the Curve Rig was removed by force and passed on to the 5th channel. Do you think it's pressure, it's a prank, or is it normal? And another thing about freedom of speech, you remember in Grandpa Krilova is a fairy tale, he claims that in order to gain freedom of speech, the crows had to be thrown out of the mouth of cheese. Have you studied the pressure on journalists by the owners of television channels?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u106	I want to say that, in fact, our commission is proposing a special media day where we put in order the daily bills that expand the concept of censorship in Ukraine and increase the responsibility for censorship. Because today, in fact, according to our legislation, the owner is not the person to be condemned for censorship. And here we go to the coalition, let's put these bills on the agenda and support them. With regard to censorship, you know, you don't even have to be a member of our TSC in order to include television, or listen to the UT-1 management, which today says that a channel that pays and is held at the expense of taxpayers should only provide positive information about power, not objective, but positive information about power. Once again, I would like to point out that we received sixty letters from journalists where there are censors. We have the TSC, according to our terms of reference, to send these letters to the prosecutor's office, and we get an absolute receipt from them that the facts are not confirmed, we don't have to consider them. The journalist was beaten in front of the whole country when he tried to make the show, and he was stabbed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u107	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u108	Berkutu's representatives pierced their eyes, and this was seen by the whole country. They have not even shouldered administrative responsibility today. Censorship is recognized today by the President of Ukraine in America when he says that yes, such facts are a disease for Ukraine, unfortunately. And we have to figure it out with you to put a dot in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u109	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u110	Your Honor, in developing my colleague's question, I'd like to ask you a question. Please give me a call. You said that universal authority oppresses journalists, not journalists, but the press. While one fact that the authorities have banned the publication or exit of a program is the first question. The second question is: Please tell us how many public media today and how many private, interest or quantity. And the third point is that we know that there are often publications that are ordered when journalists take offense to a person -- a citizen, a deputy, and so on. Do you have any examples of those journalists who had acted on or apologized to these people? Do you also think that when journalists insulted a person who is, you know, a grip on freedom of speech. Do you have such facts when journalists have to answer for false information? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u111	Did you refer to me as a journalist or as a politician? I feel the same way that today, and as a journalist, and as a politician, I think that both journalists and politicians need to raise their political culture. And in a lot of ways, unfortunately, today's current power, because we have a lot of facts when journalists complain that their stories weren't on the air, if this was about trying to make a story about the famine, like the story of the Interigree. No channel can put up a fight against corruption in the higher echelons of power, or on the Internet is this information, or the stories that relate, for example, to the property of our high-owners. This is a huge, in fact, today's problem that the Internet is becoming the most widely distributed source of true information. The channels are under-censored today, and you know better than I do how journalists complain. With regard to the issue of public and private media. So I would like to remind you that there are a number of commitments today that Ukraine has not fulfilled before the Council of Europe. First. This is the Law on Public Information, which is broken down, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u112	Please, Stishenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u113	And I'm asking you to give Oleg Lazko a word, and he's going to help us all with the fact that he's publishing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u114	Oleg Lazko. Colleagues from the pro-dominant coalition ask Irina Heratchenko, name the facts of censorship. Dear fellow citizens, I refer to the specific facts of censorship. According to the team of the head of the Bilokurakin District Administration of the Luhansk region, Mr. Didenko was banned in the district newspaper from reporting my and colleagues Steshenko's meeting with voters in the village of Liszivka of the same Bilokurakin district. Similarly, the heads of the local disability organization were banned from publishing in the circuit newspaper the thanks we gave to the disabled from our party. Next. Any publication on the activities of the political power I represent has been banned in the newspaper Desnian Truth by the team of the head of the district administration of Chernigian Homenka. [[It's a Montenegrin district newspaper.]] Here are three specific facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u116	I am, after all. Thank you. I want to say that these are the facts, my fellow Members, in our report, which I ask you to support, we ask you to convey all of these facts, including to you, so that you can get acquainted. Next. The issue of public media is very important. It's your authority today to commit to the Council of Europe for the dispossession of the media, because those communal state media are slaves today, in fact, of the local authorities that force them to join the Party of Regions, forcing them to be loyal to power. In fact, when we now have, once again, the management “UT-1” says that we should not just give objective information about the Council, but just positive, what we are talking about. The president is speaking today, Victor Janukovic, about the need for the re-establishment of UT-1 and the creation of social television on its basis. We're just supporting these processes. And that's why I want to say that we're being watched by journalists who talk every day. If your motto is, "Listen to everyone!", listen to journalists who say that the situation on the channels is not simple. Let's honor them, support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u118	The need to adopt legislation that will help journalists to work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u119	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, let's move forward like this, I understand that there is a need and a desire to discuss these reports. Then, from each faction to one representative and within 15 minutes, we will discuss both media reports. Please sign up for factions. We're on, so it'll be 10 minutes. Korj, please, the faction of the Party of Regions. Zubanov? Please, Zubanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, the Free Speech Commission has done a lot and held a meeting and I would like to thank Mrs. Irina Heraszczenko for this work. Freedom of speech, indeed, is a question without democracy, without democracy, there is no competition of thought, and there is no developing state. But really in our country, in the media, dozens of central TV channels, hundreds of regional channels, even more newspapers, magazines, the Internet, include a thousand information sites that visit more than one and a half million visitors a day, and 99 percent of it is not state property. What did the commission consider in three months? The commission received only 52 petitions for violations of freedom of speech and censorship, five of which had already been brought before the courts, and there were court decisions, 50 percent concerning regional problems both in the West and in the East, and there really was a problem in the center of the state. But I can’t help but notice that if we want to objectively see that the situation of freedom of speech in recent times is slow but improving, improving compared to past years. No one really thinks about how our predecessors should go to court and demand a decision to stop criticizing the government, such as Yulia Timoshenko. Or no one can now think that you can't get, for example, some information to journalists about the poisoning of our President Victor Andryovich Yushchenk. It's not like that now, it's all been before. Of course, for 10 years, we haven't been able to solve the question of Georgia Gongadze, and now it's been brought before the prosecution, and there's going to be a court, an open court, and we're going to see really what the problems and moments were. So I'm thinking about objectivity, we need to see in the report of the commission that first, the situation is slowly improving freedom of speech in our country, and this is thanks to the position of the guarantor of our state, our Constitution of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Then there are a few questions in the draft decrees that, for example, can be referred to further work, these are specific bills of individual MPs. The decision on Andrew Shevchenko has already been taken and the hearing of the prosecutor for Vasil Klimenko, a journalist from Kharkishte, is for me to listen, but not to touch other issues that are controversial, so as not to ask the Attorney General's Office questions that will only take time to report to the prosecutor on this important issue on Basil Klimenty. So I think that this report to the free speech committee can be accepted as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u121	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u122	and continue to work for the commission after the report has been improved and find some compromises there for the benefit of the common cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u123	Please, Irina Heraszczenko is passing on to Vijacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u124	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Now, I remember 2003-2004 -- the bush times, and then the majority of them asked, "What are the censors' facts, show us this censorship?" "Temporaries"? But no "darks" are real, their journalists seem to have invented themselves. Can you show us the facts of censorship? He came in 2004. The government's been devastated. Other authorities came forward and representatives of the then majority, some of the people from the channels, mostly from the owners, began publishing these “darks” and giving an interview ahead of time: how real these dungeons were, how pressured they were by the President's Administration, how far they were not allowed to work, and how bad and wrong the authorities had been in this case. Now that's exactly the situation: the current majority say, call us censors? Although they themselves are well - known. They're obviously waiting for this power to collapse, and they're going to start talking about these facts to us from this parliamentary rostrum. Dear colleagues, the persecution of the "5 channel" and the TV do I consider direct censorship? And that's what the whole world is talking about. And that's just what's at the top of the iceberg. And how many local television companies and television studios are succumbing to this pressure. The fact that journalists in the lead channels are writing applications for dismissals, some of which directly explain that this is for political reasons, and some simply avoid comments, because the democratic authorities have come. This is a direct fact of censorship and pressure on the media. That the managers who worked on the channels after 8-10 years, the deputy directors-generals, without explanation, have applied for their release, and they're not leaving work at all -- it's a direct confirmation of the pressure on the media and censorship. And actually, what we all suddenly get fired from our jobs all over the country is no pressure from the Party of Regions and Coalitions. Four judges of the Constitutional Court worked, suddenly admitted their incompetence and left. Mary’s cities are suddenly writing back on what they have done and refusing any further political work. This is done without the pressure of the Party of Regions and the ruling coalition. Dear colleagues, that's how we're going to get the exact same rating from outside Ukraine as in 2004. But outside, we have to live here. Even those in the coalition will be the first to suffer from this media censorship. And what is being pursued in parallel by historians, researchers, what is called for by public leaders and activists in the U.S.B., is a picture of total pressure on political freedom in Ukraine, an integral part of which is freedom of speech. So I thank Irina Heratchenko for her meaningful report, which is the previous report. And I'd like the D.A. and the law enforcement authorities to answer the committee's questions, not write a note, then ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u125	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u126	And if the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service will provide the content of the answer, not the write-offs, then there will be no questions about the press and censorship of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u127	Pavlovsky conveys the word Kurpil, please, Stepan Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u128	Stepan Kurpil, "BUT - Fatherland" faction, the "Fatherland" party. Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, I have led a temporary commission of inquiry that dealt with the incident of former Deputy Kalashnikov with the journalists of the STB channel, and I would like to point out that there have been more fundamental speeches in this room, including by colleagues of Kalashnikov, who have characterized this incident and precisely because of this position of Kalashnikovs today is not a national deputy. At the same time, there was a criminal case, and the truth was looked at for two years, cheated, and finally closed. And now, to the eerie facts, even criminal cases do not go unrepentant. Mikola Knieżicky, from TV, was convincingly arguing with the commission about what was being followed, and it turns out we are getting a letter: “No surveillance was carried out” – a letter from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But he specifically said that it wasn't the IMF that was monitoring it, it was the Ukrainian Security Service, and he was citing why. Because the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Horoshkovsky, has corporate interests in this area as the largest mediamagnat in the country. A journalist from Kharkiv Basil Klimentiev disappears, just as George Gongadze disappeared, untraceable. We're saying there's no problem in the area of freedom of speech. You want more facts? I'll show you in Lviv. This was the decision of the district council regarding the mistrust of Governor Vasil Gorbal. On that day, there was not a single word on the district television. However, about half the news broadcast involved the opening of the new offices of the Party of the Regions in Lviv. This is usually a fascinating information for the Levites. And the information that's really interesting isn't coming up. This is, you know, it's fear, it's censorship, it's the return of such a deadlock. On the air of the Ukrainian national radio, the program led by Vladimir Yavorowski disappeared. She was 8 years old. The program is interesting, it's rating, it's been thrown out. Because Javorowski took care of it. And one more thing. If you say you don't have to take the trash out of the house, you don't have to appeal to international organizations, let's not trash in that house. Because if we cannot reach the truth here, if no one wants to consider the truth, there is nothing else to appeal to reporters without borders, to the Council of Europe to other international organizations to which Ukraine, by the way, has a clear commitment. We don't live in a locked space, we don't live in Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u129	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u130	And that's why, if we don't take into account the pressures of freedom of speech, which is the barometer of democracy, we're going to end up with totalitarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u131	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of the reports of the two committees that worked in parallel on the same subject. We'll make decisions in an order of hearing. Decision 7169 on the report of the commission with which the colleague of God’s Word spoke is being considered. All I'm saying is, your honor, in this order, take the second point. Be careful. Take the second point of our assessment, where we take over, according to the court, the functions of admitting that the competition was wrong and that the actions of the officials of the National Council of Ukraine on television issues, the radio talk that made the decisions that took the decision on January 27, 2010 see signs of criminal offences. I think, well, we're going to be a little bit, but we're sending a report to the prosecution, let the Attorney General determine whether there's a crime or not, and take that assessment, we didn't conduct a judicial investigation. So I wouldn't do that, no, well, I would take, I would take that point away, I would take that point away. And where in the eighth, "to send a preliminary report to the interim commission of inquiry to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service for the appropriate response" and to put a dot. To what should we pay attention? They will pay attention to everything, for if we write that we pay attention to just one fact, they will do just one fact. Let them pay attention to the whole report, and the report has not only one, one, one fact. The reporter, we talked to her, practically agreed to this evaluation. I still had a proposal not to give an assessment of the five channels and others, but the commission would not agree with that. Thus, with the deletion of the second paragraph and the amendments to paragraph 8, of which I have mentioned, I am voting on the adoption of the order under number 7169 on the previous report of the commission of inquiry. Please vote. [[12:33:56]] For 244 It's been decided. Dear colleagues! Now it's number 7165, which she reported. a commission led and led by colleague Heratchenko. We're going to vote now. The only thing I'm here at 8 is, it's already 8 points done, because yesterday we appointed a representative of the opposition to be the head of the committee. 9 does not have to go on for 9 months either. Because by decree we gave you a year. You'll be in operation by July 1. So this is a repetition of the term that is. So these two points, the 8th and the 9th are off because they don't have anything to do with the situation that happened anymore. I put to the vote Order number 7165 on the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of cases of censorship in the media, the pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine and the obstacles to the legitimate professional activities of journalists. [[12:35:28]] For three hundred It's been decided. By removing the items I told you about. And I'm paying attention again. I pay attention, fellow Members, to the fact that here, in this committee's ruling, the main point is that you and I should consider some of the other bills. Therefore, the request of the profile committee to prepare it for consideration so that we can consider it. One more. Dear colleagues! You can listen to a variety of things, but the opposition insists that we hear the report of the Welder Commission. Let's go this way. We'll hear a report from the Welder Commission within 15 minutes. I've got a 15-minute extension, and then we'll go to different places. Is there no objection? So that we don't have any accusations that we're deliberately moving away from this issue. Please report to the Interim Investigation Commission on the decision of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, on the investigation of the corruption activities of ZAT "Rosukreenergo" and on the involvement of the officials of the State authorities and the arrest of ex-head of the State Customs Service of the Ukraine of Makarenko. Head of the Welder Commission. Please, 10 minutes to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, in fact this report is of a preliminary nature, and I will talk about it later and explain the reasons that led to this. The commission was created on July 11th, made up of 11 national deputies. During the reporting period, 35 referrals were addressed to the General Prosecutor's Office, the Department of Fuel and Energy, the Naftogaz NAK, the Ministry of Justice, the Rosukrenerego and other public authorities. We received 86 replies with separate accompanying documents. The commission also got the documents independently, and I'll explain later what I mean when I talk about the independent way of getting these documents. Because, for example, to this day, we do not have an official version of the Stockholm Court ruling itself. I'll explain why. In accordance with the decisions of the commission of three persons, the former Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrov was the lawyer of Mr. Makarenko Yuri Mikolaiovich Sukhov and the current Minister of Fuel and Energy Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko. We have refused or ignored to give a witness to our commission to the following officers: this is the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Valery Horoshkovsky, who gave no explanation at all; Alexander Lavrinovich refused to give a witness to the commission because, in his opinion, the subject of the investigation does not apply to the work of the Ministry of Justice; and from Mr Medvedsk, Attorney General, we have received no response to our call, and this is also the case with the senior security investigator of Ukraine in which criminal matters are being conducted, Mr. M. Grabik. What kind of documents are we talking about? I'm not going to talk about everyone, because you can see for yourself that it's just part of the documents that the commission owns today. In addition, there are 13 volumes that we received from the customs authorities. This is especially true of treaties that were the subject of controversy in Stockholm. These are two contracts for the sale of disputed gas between NAC and Gazprom, and this is also an agreement for the transfer of debt, which was made according to the letter “Gazprom”, which was sent to NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. In addition, there have been contracts between NAC and Rosukrenerego since July 2004. In particular, they relate to two clusters of issues that are related. For 25 years, rent rights are granted the right to keep gas from Rossukrenerego in our gas shelters and also a separate agreement on the transit of the same gas. The commission also has testimony from individual officials, both our state and NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, and, by the way, Russian “Gazprom” in Stockholm. In particular, this is the testimony of Igor Didenko, the testimony of Oleg Dubina and the individual officials of Gazprom. There are separate procedural documents that are at the disposal of our commission. This is the so-called submission or English trial in Stockholm, they are called “. ” What is it? These are procedural documents where the parties either express their position or deny the statement made in the submissions made by the other party, or explain the particular statements contained in such submissions. We have two submissions that have been sent by NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”. This includes the third application and the fourth submission. In addition, there is a document called the “Consolidated Position ‘Rosukre Energo’. And there is, of course, the judgment of the Stockholm Court, but unfortunately it's not in the original version, it's in the Russian version. With regard to the same decision, we have the testimony of the Minister of Fuel and Energy himself, who, after learning the Russian translation, testified to the commission that he was the one corresponding to the original, that is, he was authentic. The commission therefore considered it appropriate to draw the right conclusions on the basis of the document. Why such a state of things that we could. Were they forced to receive documents independently? In many of our responses, particularly from the Ukrainian Security Service, he is NAK Naftogazu, from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, there is one and the same position that since these documents requested by the Commission are now in the materials of a criminal case that was initiated by the Ukrainian Security Service and among those materials there are one or more documents that bear the “secret” charter, according to the Criminal Procedure Code, all the materials of the case are classified. However, at a meeting of the commission. At each meeting of the commission, a representative of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine was present, and at the last meeting, he testified. the professional statement, more faithfully, that the investigator's prerogative is to dissipate one. whether it is more faithful to give the commission one or the other document. By the way, this also applies to Mr. Makarenko's protector, Mr. Sukhov. He still has no opportunity to get to know the material of this criminal case, since the matter itself is classified. Although, according to Mr. Sukhov's testimony, he did not receive a procedural document from the Ukrainian Security Service, which is classified in general. In this regard, the committee will have some suggestions that I will make a little later. As far as the conclusions are concerned. I would like to say immediately that such a document, which bears the title “Preliminary Conclusions”, is approved by the Interim Commission of Inquiry, which I lead. Accordingly, 8 of the 11 members of our commission signed the previous conclusions. However, since the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not provide for the possibility to distribute or even publish such a document, of course you did not have the opportunity to get to know it. So I'm just going to give some positions from the document, which is actually called "Preliminary Conclusions". First. As for the third submission I spoke of earlier. The Commission found that the content of this, thirdly, was amended by the principles of: under the insistence of the legal advisors of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, which is the international legal firm White & Case of World Fame, by the way, an impeccable reputation, in the original version of the third submission, specific references were made to the managers of Gazprom and officials, the senior officials of the Russian Federation, in particular the oral arrangements reached at the same level, between the leadership of NAC and Gazprom and at another level, between the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation. I suppose, again, I don't have the ability to speak with absolute confidence, but I suppose that's the kind of verbal arrangement. Legal advisers insisted that they be considered in Stockholm, because the Stockholm Court is governed by what they call “good faith”, which does not require written confirmation. Oral confirmation is an argument that is accepted in Stockholm. Instead, according to the letter that our government received. The more loyal NAC received from Gazprom was the insistence that any mention of Gazprom and any mention of Gazprom management or of the Russian Federation's high leadership be removed in the third submission. The legal advisers carried out precisely such an effort by the Russian Federation. The Commission considers – and this is a very preliminary conclusion, I stress that in such harassment by Russia's Gazprom there could have been, I emphasize, elements of blackmail. And of course this is an object that we need to investigate later. And the last. I'm going to ask for one minute longer with respect to the same sixth submission, and I'd like to point out that the commission doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u134	I ask another minute, Adam Ivanovich, because that is what is very important. The commission doesn't have this sixth submission in place, and we would actually ask NAC to give it to us. Since the Stockholm Court itself has a specific reference not only to this sixth submission but also to what could be considered a fundamental change in the legal position of the NAC “Naftogaz” Ukraine. What is the point? In all the submissions before that time and in all the testimony of the representatives of the NAC at this court session, NAC was in the position that the agreements that were the subject of the dispute between NAC and Roskrenergo were made in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. For reasons that are not clear to the committee, NAC in its sixth report changes its position, namely, admits that these contracts have been made in contravention of the current legislation. If that's really true, and we don't have the ability to confirm it, because I emphasize, we don't have a sixth submission. But there's a reference in the court's decision to the sixth filing, just like that. If this is true, in fact, by accepting the main claim of Rossukrenergo, NAK lost any opportunity to win this court. I mean, actually, the subject of the dispute is gone. Again, we don't have the ability to document this today because we don't have these documents yet. Yet, to the direct question of the members of the commission, the Minister of Fuel and Energy replied that the position of the government is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u136	I am now, the last sentence is that these agreements, which were then concluded in 2009, are illegal. In view of these facts that I have set out, I think that you, your fellow believers, realize that there are questions here that require further investigation. So let me actually make the decision of the commission that I made as a separate decision that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would agree to continue our activities for two months. The right decision is registered to me, and I'm willing to answer any questions that you may have, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u137	It could be, but there's no time left, Roman Mikhailovich. Let's do this: because, really, the chairman of the commission asks the commission to continue the term because we should stop the commission's work today, they're asking to continue with the final report in November. I'm making this proposal, I'm making this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? There's no such thing. Now. I'm making this offer. I'll give it to you later. I'm laying the groundwork on the proposal for a decision to continue the work of the commission until November, number 7168. Please vote. [[12:50:19]] For 322 As a basis, it's been accepted. What suggestions? Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u138	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko-Party of "The Fatherland". Adam Ivanovich, from the report of the head of the commission of inquiry, it became known that the authorities of the State were ignoring the request of the commission of inquiry, and you know that this was not an accident. Because in its time, the Constitutional Court, in view of the fact that the Law “On Special Investigations Commissions” was signed by the wrong Head of the Supreme Council, declared it unconstitutional. As you know, according to 89 articles of the Constitution, it is the commission of inquiry that is the right of minorities to investigate issues of social interest. So I ask you to give an order to the protocol committee, the Main Committee on this matter, to bring the matter to the attention of the Supreme Council. The law on commission investigators. To enact this law, and to have the commission of inquiry work in accordance with the Constitution in the legal field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u139	In the previous decree, our colleague Heratchenko wrote it down in a decree without commission. Goodyma.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u140	Gudima, National Deputy, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. As a member of the interim commission of inquiry, I say that the chairman of the commission has allowed for impreciseness. He informed you that the commission supported that draft decision to extend the term of office for two months. That's right. But the commission also voted on my amendment to ask President Yanukovich as a guarantor of the Constitution to give an order to the Security Service of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office, Minsk, other authorities to ensure the normal work of the Commission so that the Ukrainian people would learn the whole truth about “Rosukreenergo” and the Stockholm Arbitration. Without such an assignment, we may continue to work in secrecy for more than two months, we will not receive any documents, and in two months, the Ukrainian people will not learn the truth about the “Roskreenergo” of Stockholm arbitration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to politicalization of this issue, which may end in the fact that the commission will now stop its work. So please, let's stop at that. I propose to vote on Bill 7168 as a whole. Prolongation. There's nothing here anymore. For two months, we'll continue the work of the commission. Please vote. [[12:53:29]] For 318 Continued. We are waiting for the final report in November. Yes, please, let us turn to the question “Victory”. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Easy, get ready for the Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Today's parliamentary week ends, unfortunately, it didn't bring our voters the expectations they expected. In particular, Parliament has never passed a law on the moratorium on the rise of the retirement age for women. No moratoriums on residential services and price increases. So in another Ukrainian Parliament, unfortunately, he confirms how hopelessly distant he is from the people and from the problems that people live in. I hope that the next sessional week will begin at the demand of opposition, just by addressing issues that are primarily of concern to citizens. But today, in my speech, I would like to draw attention to the political issue, which I think is very important, both for the people of Kiev and for many thousands of visitors to the capital. What is it? Today, in Kiev, there is actually a new government headed by Alexander Popov, but we have old problems. On the weekends, on Saturday Sundays, they cover the roadside of Krestatika, as if to allow the Chinese, the guests of the capital, to take a walk on the Crusades. Instead, people are really deprived of such opportunities because on the pedestrian side of Krestets everything is killed by cars. I want to remind you that a few years ago, during Mr. Omelchenk's death, tens of millions of budget funds were spent setting up a pedestrian section of Khreshtika, motivating people to be able to walk on it. And today there are cars on this expensive walkway. And the Chinese and the guests of the cities and the diplomats and many people come to the capital and are forced to run between these cars like rabbits to walk through and feel sorry for the central part of the city of Kiev. This is an absolutely unacceptable thing for any European capital. It's hard to imagine in London, in Paris or in Greece, in Athens or anywhere else, or in Moscow in the Red Square instead of pedestrians. So I'm asking the official MP to get the capital to stop this disgraceful practice, and I'm also directing this request to the State Inspectorate to not be on the roadside of the famous Krestatik Street, the center of the capital of cars, just walking. I hope that my appeal will help to resolve this situation and the Chiyans, and Kyiv’s guests, will have the opportunity to admire the landscape.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u143	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u144	They will be able to admire the landscape of the glorious center of our city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u145	People's MP Mirný passes the word to the national MP, Caplienko. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, Vladimir Kaplanko, the MP group “Reforms for the Future”. We appeal to all who care about the future of Ukraine because we are alarmed by the underprivileged politics of the former authorities. Today, 100 million dollars can be collected in a state in an equal city because of lawsuits committed by business entities in the competitive sale of Odeski Pluto. Recently, Frunze-Flora won the trial in court for the refund of the costs of the competitive guarantee and all the contractual sanctions that the government has to return to the enterprise for the privatisation competition of Odeski Przyrzydnicy. In 2009, I recall that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, led by Yulia Timoshenko, decided to implement the Odeski Přípritsko, took part in the competition with three companies, each with a competitive guarantee of 400 million dollars. Because of the halting of the bidding that took place during the teletransmission of the competition, two companies did not receive the return of the bid. Deceptive businessmen have filed a lawsuit and courts have come to all levels. According to the results, Frunze Flora is expected to receive an additional 400 million and 100 million fines from the state budget. As far as I'm concerned, we can't assume that. The money's not back yet. Counter-returned competitive guarantees and use for this purpose of administrative resources, which now leads to a sharp decline in Ukraine's investment attractiveness and directly contradicts the Ukrainian President's action programme on large-scale system reforms in the state. We don't agree with that kind of action then, not now. And we are confident that these steps gradually destroy business in Ukraine and provoke a complete halt to investment flows. As we now know, the situation is very simple. Frunze-Flora agrees that it is even difficult to call compromise. Businessmen want only their 400 million dollars back and agree to forgive the 100 million that they have already won in court. The only thing the company wants is to get their money back as soon as possible. Therefore, MPs from the Reform Group for the Future address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Property Fund, the Head of the Treasury, the Minister of Justice: do not follow the mistakes of the previous government, do not compromise the State of Ukraine with foreign investors. Even in this area of inactivity, it is directly in conflict with the action programme of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine and with the implementation of large-scale reforms in the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u147	I'd like to invite you to Andrew Pavlovski, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next will be the national deputy of Matthew, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u148	Andrew Pavlovski, “Block Timoshenko”, the “Fatherland” party. Dear fellow countrymen, every day in Ukraine there is an attack on the basic social rights of our citizens to stretch their belts and put our teeth on the shelf, calling us in the name of the pseudoreform of Tihypak and Januković, which are designed to create a warm environment for the great oligarchic business, based on the looting of ordinary citizens and the insurmounting of insurmountable debts to our offspring. One of Yanukovich’s promises that when he comes to power, he will be priced stability for basic foods is not fulfilled. What do we see? The increase in the price of bread by 20-30 percent, the increase in the last month in the price of vegetables almost double, although in the fall they have to fall with crops, potatoes by 5 bucks, Greeks in Kiev markets by 15, is expected to increase significantly the price of dairy products. On this week’s eggs, the price of such a strategic product has doubled. I want to pay attention, and despite the fact that people's lives are getting worse every day, the government continues to submit to Parliament, every week, looting antisocial projects of the same Tax Code, the Labour Code, the memoranda on restricting the salaries of all budgeters for six years, increasing the retirement age and so on. And why the question, why does this happen? Why is the authorities conducting such an antisocial course? And because the control of the 10 criminal clans of the oligarchs, who don't need a normal standard of living, and the people themselves, they need a quiet, zombie, hired mass instead of the Ukrainian population, combined with their TV channels. And they say to us: “Work in the field as a bee for a meager wage!” Whether these oligarchs from the Party of Regions want as much as the oligarch master says, so much as the hired hovel will pay him. Therefore, it becomes clear why the Constitutional Court now has abusing justice and the Constitution, why they want to hand over Yanukovich's dictatorial powers to Kuchma. And because sooner or later this antisocial policy of power will lead to mass discontent. Thus, the oligarchs prepare an iron fist of dictatorship in advance to suppress the national protest, and all the repressive apparatus — the militia sticks and the bandit bullets — will move. That is why Janukovic wants the authority of the tyrant, although he still has the full power. I think we need to preserve democracy in our country and save our people from that gulf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u149	Thank you. I invite you to speak to Vladimir Josephovich Matthews. The next is Eugene Kralkov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u150	Ukraine!The policy of enriching the clans, which began with Kravczuk, privatization under the form of publicity continues today, but more effectively for the clans. The intensification of this process has led to a further decline in the standard of living of the population, including those working in different areas. One has traditionally been used for 20 years as a robbery of the people, unpaid wages or delay in payment. It is sufficient to provide an example of the privatization of the largest shipbuilding complex in Europe, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. It was sold to the Government of Yanuković when the Company Fund headed the Chechetov and directly controlled the transaction by his Deputy Vasiliev. By selling the public stock package at a price of 27-30 times below market value, the State Property Fund did not further defend the interests of the people. He agreed to change the investment liabilities of their owner, forgetting the debt owed to them by 12 million grevens -- this is set by the court, and the debt owed to the Pension Fund by 20 million grevens, and withdrawing those amounts from the account. Some of the employees of the Black Sea plant have been credited. The Communists of Nikolayevshina set up a rescue committee for the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, obtained recognition by the courts of arrears on wages, but the change by the Owner's Housing Fund led to total irresponsibility on old debts. We have been brought before the Office of the Prosecutor General, and the Kyiv Court of Appeal has decided to return the factory to public property. But the administrators do not do anything to enforce the judgement of the court, to restore property to the people of Ukraine. Such an example of the unconscionable attitude that governs the protection of public property, and thus the interests of the people, provides a negative example of imitation for non-radical employers, and compels us to take action. As at 1 August, wages owed 47 million dollars in the Nikolaev region, including 30.1 million for Nikolaev, were not included in the 12 million that had been removed from the brackets. Total number of debtors of 102 enterprises. Half of the debtors – state-owned enterprises – 23.9 million bracelets. Communiqués are 11 per cent and 39 per cent are private enterprises. In the framework of the national communist project “Work, wages, protection”, working groups have been established to assist the collectives of those enterprises where wages are delayed. The Communists'initiative to combat labour rights of labour workers has been supported by the Governor of the area, and today 22 leaders of indebted enterprises in the city of Nikolayev are in criminal proceedings. According to the leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine Simonenko, the painting is made by name. Paradoxical: Ukraine's gross domestic product is growing, but at the same time the number of enterprises is growing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u151	Vladimir Josephovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u152	I'm half a second. If the rulers fail, we can do without them. In the case of communists, delays in payment of salaries were an emergency and were not allowed in principle. In late 1917, the creation of the Czech Republic was driven by the sabotage of bank employees and public employees, namely, salaries. You can go back to this system if you cannot use democratic principles. I would like to consider my statement to be a parliamentary request for the next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u153	Please prepare an appropriate request, as spoke of by the deputy, Matthew. Before you go, I'd like to invite Eugene Kzarykov. Next is Ivan Vasilovich Popescu, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u154	Respectable voters, respectable people's deputies! In accordance with articles 15, 17, 19 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Tribunal is required to speak on the grounds of the information I have received about the mass offences that are allowed during the investigation of road traffic accidents and the prosecution of those responsible for the statutory liability. As a result of the heinous investigation of such cases and the growing public distrust of public authorities, the creation and registration in Odessa of the social organization Vassili Karpenka. This organization was created by a father whose son died under the wheels of the mayor and has not yet been held responsible. To date, the organization has brought together hundreds of citizens and families who have been affected by the accident and those who are also responsible for the MPs. and with parliamentary powers, and in court cases, are never held accountable. The public organization has good reason to believe that the investigation of accidents is in most cases carried out in accordance with corruption schemes, which involve individuals of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, doctors, experts, judges and other public officials. Real facts have been falsified at the time of the first investigations, in particular the drawing up of accident schemes. Unclean law-enforcement agents enjoy the shocking condition of victims and silence in the coffee shops of the victims. In the future, the affected party is not called upon to investigate. The testimony of the witnesses shall be taken into account. Following an analysis of the materials submitted by the members of the “Do not be silent”, it is evident that article 97 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is systematically being violated. In the case of an accident, therefore, a decision must be taken no later than three days from the date of the decision: to initiate or refuse a criminal case. However, in all the cases that we have studied in faction four years after five years, there are no cases, and the men and children of the rich, the children of the deputies and the children of the judges are free. At the same time, the children of the victims are already in the light. Almost all cases violate the rights of the victims, in particular in relation to information on the case. The results of forensic auto-technical, trasology, medical examinations have significant shortcomings and falsifications. The summary table in the annex, which we have prepared, because part of the presentation is quite concise, includes dozens, or hundreds, of facts that speak of falsification by the same experts, by the same trainee in the FDA, in the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the courtrooms, of falsification of the case. The people do not believe in the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Ukrainian law enforcement system. It seems that only the rich, their colleagues and high-ranking officials, as well as their injections, are the masters of all the arts, are protected by law enforcement. Simple citizens are not protected at all. On behalf of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I demand that the GPU, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Higher Qualification of Judges ensure the establishment of an ad hoc inter-ministerial commission to verify the legality and legality of each fact as set out in my statement and in that table.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u155	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u156	And in the table transmitted by the Bureau, as well as the materials and treatments of the affected families, which I have been stressing for years, four to five years are not investigated by law enforcement officers. The faction takes the material under personal parliamentary control, and I am asking you to consider my statement as a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u157	Please also prepare an appropriate parliamentary request. I invite you to John Popescu. Two colleagues gave him the word, so he's got six minutes. Xenius Lapin, the faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense” will therefore be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u158	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honourable Head, Your Honourable Colleagues and Voters! Today, I would like to draw attention to a pleasant event, but which needs the support of the executive branch, particularly the Minculture and the Chernobyl District State Administration. Historically, three years later, 2009-2010 and 2011, the village of Lower Petrovci of the Watchtower Region of the Cherniewets region identifies three significant events. So last year, 100 years have passed since the inauguration of the new rural church, and by the forces of the local Orthodox community, the villagers capitulated the temple and released a book on the history of religious communities in the village. This summer was 400 years old from the first written mention of the village under the modern name “Petrovci”. Regrettably, the previous authorities did not accept the budget on time, so money was not available at the district and district levels. But local sponsors used the district headquarters of the Party of Regions and the new district authorities to take the necessary steps to celebrate. The central road was partially repaired, and two schools and a kindergarten were being repaired. Several thousand visitors from various parts of Ukraine and various European countries attended the festival. The Holy was made to be celebrated. There was a festival, another book on outlaws. In the following year, it has been 600 years since the first written mention of the village, but under a different name. The villagers are once again being prepared within their own strength, but there is a need for assistance from the district and state budget to prepare the 600-year-old village holiday, which will take place on 28 August 2011. There are 400 residents in the village, there are two secondary schools, three national and cultural associations of Romanians, Poles and Ukrainians, there are children's folklore ensembles in the culture houses. The National Instruments Orchestra, the Folklore Polish Ensemble of Twenchek, the Music School branch, the Ethnographic Museum, the Literature Studio, two libraries, and so forth. Not every district center can talk about what is happening in this village. Unfortunately, though, there is a lack of own resources for the infrastructure itself. Many, as always, have been made by the Petrucans themselves before this date, but there are costs that need to be allocated from the higher-level budget. That is, it takes 38,000 dollars for street lighting, 299 thousand dollars for the renovation of the central cultural house, and 131 thousand dollars for the renovation of music schools. In addition, the cosmetic repairs of the rural ethnographic museum require at least 5,000 bracelets, for costumes for the orchestra of the people's instruments “Rapsode Carpathians”, which are performing abroad, require at least 15,000 bracelets and for printing two books dedicated to the history and achievements of the village of Lower Petrovci, where several dozen people have completed higher education, three of them have a degree in “Doctor of Science”, and the glory of this village is brought to the world by 46,000 bracelets. On the basis of the above, and since I have already made appropriate written references to the district and district administrations, and to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine regarding the allocation of the appropriate funds for the proper celebration of the 600th anniversary of the village of Lower Petrovci, I request that, in the context of the 2011 budget, I provide the funds, and I ask that I consider the official parliamentary request to be able to make a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u159	Thank you. Please also prepare an appropriate parliamentary address. I invite Kseniya Lapina, “Our Ukraine” faction. It will be followed by Jaroslav Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u160	Thank you. Xenia Leapina, political party “For Ukraine!” Dear listeners and viewers, today the most relevant topic that concerned the entire Ukrainian people throughout the week is certainly the government's introduction of a work that the government called the draft of the Tax Code. It's a major blow to society. Yesterday, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there were small entrepreneurs who, unfortunately, had been told by the authorities that they were not there at all. They have come to look them in the eye and may see that they are in Ukraine, and there are now almost 3 million in Ukraine. They created their jobs and gave jobs to other Ukrainians, about 5 million active Ukrainians working in the small business sector. What can result from the adoption of a document entitled “Draft Tax Code ” by Azarov, Tihypak, Kolesnikov, and other good activists? And all the experts have admitted, the result can be only one green road to the oligarchs and the complete destruction of small and medium-sized businesses. Would it seem that the average citizen? And the results are actually coming. In fact, the result for the average citizens will be an increase, a monopolization. The oligarchs, in creating an oligarchic economy, always do one thing and they concentrate and monopolize the markets. As a result, we already have a ten - year peak of meat prices. We have almost twice as much milk as we have. Please tell the average Ukrainians, and what, the village has begun to live better than this? Oh, no. Ask the farmer if he has won from this food promotion. Oh, no. Who won? Where did this one come from? This bag that's collecting all the expenses for the trip? And that's the result of monopolizing markets. The less small and medium-sized business, the more the government destroys it, the higher the prices will be for the average Ukrainians and not just for food products, the food is just the beginning, the other essentials will also be the result. Unfortunately, we already know the statistics, but so far the citizens have not experienced the increase in goods used for industrial consumption and so on and so forth. It's against the background that citizens' incomes don't go up. We insist that we must not abuse the economy of Ukraine in this way. We insist that we stop this process, we reject the draft Tax Code from Azarov, Kolesnikov, Tihypak and other prominent actors. And finally get your head around it and demono-polize Ukraine's markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u161	I invite Jaroslav Kendzior, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. It will be followed by Victor Taran, “Timoshenko Street”. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u162	Jaroslav Kenzior, Party “For Ukraine!” Despite the massive number of claims, concern about the draft Language Act, the Party “For Ukraine!” adds its voice by appreciating the introduction of this draft law as a declaration of war to every conscious Ukrainian, Ukrainian and then to the Ukrainian State. Contrary to the Constitution, which defines Ukrainian as the only national language and obliges the State to ensure its development and functioning in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine, the bill proclaims so-called Ukrainian-Russian bilinguality and creates mechanisms for the displacement of Ukrainian language from all spheres of life. Memories in the Ukrainian language project as a national language and leaving the theoretical possibility of using it in certain areas should not mislead us. The analysis of the bill leaves no doubt that this document foresees a total disintegration of all spheres of life in Ukraine. This is a direct continuation of the politics of the Russian Empire and the Communist regime of the Soviet Union. Even worse conditions for the existence and functioning of the Ukrainian language than during the Communist occupation are included in the individual provisions of this law. Since Peter's time, we've fixed more than 170 acts of Ukrainian language killing. And this, if, God forbid, this law will be passed, it will be the ultimate in this terrible murderous list. The root of Ukrainianophobia, Ukraine’s hatred of today’s ruling team is the direct descendant of Lazarus Kaganovich Dmitry Tobacco, who was born this week with a terrible Ukrainian publication in one of the newspapers. It is the duty of all conscious citizens of Ukraine to unite to protect our language and to demand the removal of this anticonstitutional and explosive project. The Party “For Ukraine!” suggests that the coalition do so on its own, without waiting for escalation and opposition around the topic. The government must put an end to the war against the Ukrainian people, their language, their history, their culture, and finally pursue the promise of a better life for this nation today. This is what the people of Yanukovic and his coalition require of both the west and the east and the whole of Ukraine. And if you continue, or coalition, instead of doing business, to fight with our language, you will quickly see the Bible’s truth: He who sows the wind will reap the storm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u163	I'd like to invite Victor Terrence to speak with Yuri Samilenko, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u164	Thank you, Victor Taran, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, the Fatherland Party. First of all, on behalf of our faction and personally from Julia Timoshenko, I would like to welcome all the scholars with a famous date in Ukrainian pedagogy, today the hundredth anniversary of the world famous Pavlish School, dedicated to the name of the great Ukrainian teacher Vasil Sukhomlinsky. Indeed, Paul’s school, like a pedagogical mecca, was found by teachers from all over the world to benefit from wisdom and goodness, and Sukhomlinsky’s works were published and revised in Europe, Canada, Japan. So let the bright wills of this great teacher lead to a worthy generation tomorrow. I'm a Pavlishtian myself. I went to this beautiful school in Sukhomlinsky, and I listened to his lessons. I'd like to say a good word. But that's the same question. But, excuse me, who is teaching our children after Suhamlinsky today? Ukraine’s education today is headed by a person who has become a symbol of Ukrainian gluttony. At Kuchma's, he made himself a colonel and became a black colonel in the field of Ukrainian education and spirituality. I'm not going to judge our Block so they don't think it's politics. But I would like to quote today's Deputy Prime Minister Boris Kolesnikov, who in his own time publicly called the Smoker a cheap clown and a fortune-teller. And here's a statement from the Plain District Council: the presence of Dmitri Tobacco in office is an invasion of the soul and mind of a young generation of Ukrainians that we can't allow. I'm leaving politicians, writers, I'm quoting the famous boxer Vitaly Klitschka worldwide, quote: “The activity of the Tobacco not only breaks the country but also destroys the basic foundations of Ukrainian statehood.” I quote a letter from the U.S. Congress Committee to President Yanukovic: “For decades anti-Ukrainian Soviet propaganda has distorted Ukraine’s history, and tobacco continues such anti-Ukrainian policies and spreads attacks not only against the state itself, but also as a result of its destructive actions undermines your presidency.” Today, Ukraine is not the only one protesting against Tobacco’s position as minister, the world is laughing at it. I could cite some of the publications in Poland, in the Czech Republic, in Lithuania. But who holds him in office, this man in whom the spirit of Kaganovich awakens and does not rest? Recently, Prime Minister Azarov called on young people to study. Do you think it's Ukrainian? No, Chinese. Perhaps this sudden love for the Prime Minister, not for the Ukrainian one he could not learn, but for the Chinese, shows that we will soon hear Azarov’s speech in the Chinese Parliament? Well, unless it's a trick accent. And the fact that today's coalition of Presidents is essentially hostile to Ukraine, and is evidenced by the coalition's draft of the Language Act, which Dr. Kendzior rightly spoke about. And the Academy of Sciences of the University of Ukraine, which brought together more than 300 leading scientists, concludes with a quote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u165	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u166	“Actually, this law aims to preserve the situation created by the centuries of Russian policy when Ukrainians have been forced to refuse their native language.” So we can protect our children from the darkness. It's because of the darkness and the Ukraine's greed. And let us be helped in this by the light of the instructions of the great Sukhomlinsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u167	I'd like to invite Yuri Sameilenka, faction of the Party of the Regions. John the Rabbit will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u168	Sinelnikovsky, Yuri Sameilenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, Dnepropetrovsk oblast. I am established in the 39th constituency, which focuses on the agricultural areas of Dnepropetrovština - Pokrovsky, Vasilkowski, Intereskie. As I was in the district, I drew attention to some pretty shabby fields planted by the sunflower. The study of the causes of this crop condition is one of the mineral-intensive technical crops in Ukraine, and it has shown that there has been a significant decline in crop yields in the total number of crops. For example, according to official projections of world production of oil and oil crops of the US Department of State, there were 4,000 50 lands under the seed of a sunflower in Ukraine in 2008. 4 million acres, in 2009 4 thousand 85, in 2010 4 thousand 370. 4 million 370,000. And the harvest is shrinking accordingly. In 2008, 7 million tons, in 2009 6.5 million tons and 2010 6 million tons are projected. One reason is the depletion of soils whose fertility is now entirely on the agroproducer’s shoulders. This is a lack of support from the State of action of agrarians for the purchase of mineral fertilizers. The tenant does not know for sure whether he will have all or some of the tenants left behind. That is, the fears that fertilizers have been introduced into the remaining soils after the contract has been terminated will be avoided by the new tenant. The mechanism for compensation for part of the value of mineral fertilizers was first implemented in 2004 by the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanuković, which solved the problem, since 10-20 per cent of residual nutrients from contributions remaining for the following year were actually paid by the State. To this end, Cabinet Order No. 13 of 14 January 2004 allocated 140 million bracelets. In particular, it was compensated for: ammonia water – 70 grevens per tonne, saltitra – 100 grevens per tonne, nitroammophosca – 400 grevens per tonne, complex mineral fertilizers – 250 grevens per tonne. And so on. During the First Prime Minister, Timoshenko changed this mechanism and in 2005 it was promised to compensate the value of fertilizer directly by the manufacturer. Unfortunately, however, apart from the debts owed to the manufacturer, the compensation scheme was once again reopened by the Government of Yanuković in 2007, but after 150 million bracelets had been allocated, but since the resignation of Kabmin, the Government of Timoshenko had not allocated the money. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, there is a growing price trend.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u169	Finish it, Yuri Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u170	That is to say, one: I need to strengthen the control of the State over the soybean trade and I am sending the relevant proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers to take account of the 2011 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u171	I invite John the Rabbit, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Yavorowski will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u172	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, the Supreme Council was visited by representatives of small and medium - size business from all over Ukraine. They asked me as a representative of the Ukrainian People's Party, a party that consistently advocates small and medium-sized business, which is an important part of the middle class, to read out their appeal to the public, the authorities, the political parties and the big business. Here is the text of this reference: “The officials tell us, pay taxes, contributions to the Pension Fund. We answer, we consider paying legal taxes as a public obligation and ready to carry it out, but only if taxes in full begin to pay all those who abuse their proximity to the authorities so far avoid it. Before turning the nuts down, point the order at the top. We're looking at big business, transfer your companies registered in Cyprus, the Virgin Islands and other offshores to Ukraine, pay taxes here. Give up the pseudo of breaking up your megamarkets and other large businesses on small SDRs. We're talking to political party leadership, make it transparent for the party finance and election campaign voter, make the funding purely cashless at the expense of parties and election funds, or else you'll be watching the ugly extermination of the people's defenses over and over again. Today’s Supreme Council does not reflect the latest elections in Ukraine as an adequate expression of the people’s interests. We demand the dissolution, or the self-release of this club “for the sake of the interests”, of a club of unprincipled people who should work as a European Parliamentary State. On the eve of local elections, we will publish a black list of political parties that, according to small and medium - size business, do not deserve voter support. We call on the public authorities to do the following: to ensure that the above mentioned parties and large businesses are met; to free bribe officials and let the court decide their fate; to eliminate giants not seen in the civilized world, scissors between maximum and minimum wages, among the largest, smallest pensions; to abandon state assets, homes, expensive service cars, special services and sanatoriums; and at last, to create conditions for the rich to pay for the poor, not the other way around. Only one example is that high - income workers do not at all pay contributions to the Pension Fund in excess of $13,000,200, but receive unlimited pensions. Refuse to try to regulate and thus drive small and medium - size business into the shadows. We go to the big business of the parties and the authorities, which have gone all the way, at least take into account the instincts of self-preservation. We claim that we did not steal government property or buy it for nothing, we maintain families, we raise children, we pay taxes. At the same time, we are responsibly claiming that all illegal business is covered by officials and politicians, so there can be no more. The thought that we will humbly and silently accept new and new tribulations is an illusion. The sooner you get rid of it, the better for you. I'm asking the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u173	Read it, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u174	People's deputies, government officials, President Yanukovich, please listen to these demands. The policy of power, which is a constant disunity of society, especially in the case of large and small businesses, rather than harmonising their interests, is a criminal policy. Those who pursue such policies do not have the right to political activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u175	I'd like to invite Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. He will be followed by Michael Kossov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u176	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", "Fathership", Kirovograd. I want to talk to those voters, to those compatriots who haven't yet broken the fog, and the illusion that they had made the right choice didn't go away. That's why I want to bring two strokes this week to the image of this horde led by Genghis Khan, who was actually occupying Ukraine today. And because of that, two strokes will obviously create a certain image of this power. First. Helmut Cole, when he was a chancellor, drove himself to his cabin on the weekend and exceeded his speed by two miles [3 km]. He was stopped by the police, fined, warranted, and paid the money immediately. Yesterday, I'm going to a 9-hour session, and I'm driving in, and there are huge columns of cars from Opuchov to Kiev, from the District Road to Kiev, and from Koncha to Sleepy Hollow to Kiev. Here we go, the policeman is poor, well, what he can do is stand, I got out of the car and went among the drivers to talk. So you can hear what they're saying about this power? It was to pass through Azarov. It's completely closed to Korchita, completely closed, and by the time we're finally given the opportunity to drive, the rear car that's driving is walking on it so that, don't bring God, someone doesn't come near Azar. Society! But it's feudalism, and I know what cave age. Exactly the same can be said with the Coal, where Sam is going. The bridge is opened only for him, and cyclists, motorcyclists, lie on everyone at all. I just want people to know that. You wanted it, but you voted for it. Excuse me, I don't idealize Julia Timoshenko, but I never remember, I don't know, I live in that neighborhood, I never heard her go to work. Second stroke. You know, there's the National Association of Writers, it's led by me and Potter, and Zagreb, a lot of people. The community, which was the main actor, if you want, for the declaration of Ukraine’s independence, created the National Movement of its time, that is, it was on the full edge. Today we stand in defense of the language, yesterday we held the plenary for this reason. There's this association. But of course she's in eternal opposition to power. I wrote Kuchmi letters, I wrote an open letter, bad letters, Kravchukovi, Yanukovich -- you can write and I'll write. What is happening today? Today, a group of giftless people were found who were eventually expelled from the Writers ’ Association, and they formed their intercessor. And today they're sitting on a table in Yanukovich's document to assign them the title of national, that is, the national community of real money and all that. But the people are good, but be ashamed! And as a substitute for the head of this group of writers, you do not know who they are a hundred times!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u177	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u178	Lela Skorik is a substitute for the head. What did she write, I don't know?Oh, my God! Because of this, I think the days of this power, I think, are narrowing down, narrowing down and narrowing down. That's what you need!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u179	I'd like to invite Michael Kossev to the "BUT" faction of Fatherland, followed by Jaroslav Jódzik, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u180	Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of Reforms and Orders. I want to continue that conversation that's already been heard in this rostrum today, but I'm going to speak, not as a politician, but as a specialist speaking professor. I have this law, which is proposed by three of our colleagues, Ephraim, Simonenko and Greenewecki, which is called the Language Act in Ukraine. This law introduces new concepts that are not in any Ukrainian law, especially the concept that exists in politics and in publicism, but not in language – it is a regional language. What is the regional language by definition of this law? It's the language of that national group that lives compactly in a particular region and makes up a corresponding percentage unit. Dear fellow countrymen, do you, some of you doubt what language will be spoken in almost all of Ukraine? Of course it won't, and neither will it be the English language nor the language of any of these nationalities that live in Ukraine, except one -- it will be the Russian language. And they don't hide it, because in article 7, Russian language in Ukraine is highlighted in a separate chapter and it says, "Ukrainian-Russian bilinguality". There is no ambiguity in any nation, no society. I once wrote a book called “Twice or Textless. ” So it's not going to be Ukrainian or Russian -- it's going to be a terrible cover. And that's why I want to go to those who think I'm Russian. I want to turn to my colleagues, members of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers who write in Russian: “Do you need this? Journalists, do you need this? Something is preventing you from using big language in today's legislative base: Pushkina, Tolstoy, even the Ukrainian writer for Yanukovic - Čechov?" Nothing interferes! But if there is, do not give God the law of wickedness that has been adopted, he will cause such a clash in society that you do not think that anyone will keep quiet about it “for whoever feeds you with bread will feed you, along with bread will go to the dung.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u181	Yes, turn on the microphone. Finish
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u182	It was I who wanted John Frank with the poem Moses. “He who feeds you with bread will go with bread to the dung, and he who feeds the spirit in you will be poured out with me,” Moses says with the words of the Most High to his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u183	Jaroslav Jojik. He will be followed by Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u184	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mikolo Volodyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian People’s Party calls upon all Ukrainian citizens, patriotic associations to join forces to defend freedom of speech and information in Ukraine, not allowing the puppets of the Kremlin in the new government to tarnish the memory of Ukrainian heroes, concealing the crimes of the Communist regime, and destroying the Ukrainians ’ right to national identity and the free use of Ukrainian language in their own country. UNODC requires, in accordance with the Criminal Code, to investigate and punish SBA officials who, on 9 September, conducted shameful searches, interrogations and attempted to intimidate the director of the National Museum of Remembrance of the Victims of the Inoccupational Regimes of Ruslan Zabilog, who is studying archival materials regarding the true history of the UPA and anti-Ukraine activities of the Soviet Special Forces. The computer disks removed from the historian contain 16,000 archival documents, which the U.S.S.S.S. The UNP is convinced that the historian has been pressured to prevent the disclosure of the names of the officers who participated in the NCSC's penal operations against UN-OPA and starved the Ukrainian people. These infamous actions of the BSS personnel are clearly part of a Kremlin special operation to stop the detection of CPRS, the KGB, against the Ukrainian people. UNODC also explicitly requires the leadership of the Supreme Council to immediately withdraw from Parliament the language bill in Ukraine, which, contrary to the current Constitution, provides for the granting of Russian, in the form of regional, factual status of the second state language at the level of Ukraine. UNODC sees the bill as an attempt to destroy the Ukrainian language, which is a segment of the Ukrainian statehood, as an attempt to encroach on the Constitution, to encroach on state sovereignty, and considers it an attempt to sow dissipation by breaking Ukraine by regional sign. The anti-constitutional bill continues the imperial tradition of the destruction of Ukrainian language, introduced by the German and Valyv decrees of the Russian Empire, as well as Lenin and Stalin's actions regarding the ruse of Ukraine. UNODC requires the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, to take steps to stop the anti-Ukrainian vacchanal of the ruling coalition, which is trying to review the language legislation introduced by the Basic Law. I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u185	Complete, please, because our colleagues who are waiting do not arrive, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u186	The UNP warns that such coalitions are extremely dangerous to state stability. The leaders of the Parliamentary Coalition have proved that they feel, not as representatives of the sovereign European Ukraine, but as governors of Malorósia, who carry out the Kremlin’s mission with the massive Russianization of the Ukrainians. UNODC calls on local authorities to consider this issue in successive sessions and to direct their decision on the protection of the national language. Protect Ukrainian because it's yours. Only in this way can we maintain our right to be Ukrainian in our own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u187	I would like to invite Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. It will be followed by Sergey Hrapov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u188	Thank you, sir! Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Timoshenko's Yulia, Fatherland. Dear listeners, dear colleagues! Early in the week, Ukrainian media flew news that the Ukrainian government had filed a lawsuit with the Federal Court in Portland, Oregon, U.S.A., for an American company suspected of selling vaccines in Ukraine. Another American company called Traut Kajcheriz, who now earns money in Ukraine, and more specifically in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was quoted by Prime Minister Mikola Azarov. Involved as an auditor of the activities of the previous government. In an interview, one of the attorneys in the Pacific, whose work is being paid by today’s authorities, said a loud statement. He said that the authorities in Ukraine were committed to the idea of exposing corruption wherever it was going. Let's sort out the substance of the statement. First of all, about corruption. IN THE first half of this year, the head of Ukraine completed a health audit and revealed more than just a violation, and I discovered criminal schemes, seven streams of misappropriation. The results of the examination were sent to a committee of profile, all of whose members asked President Yanukovic of Ukraine for urgent action. And you know what the reaction was? The President sent this to Prime Minister Azarov, Azarov called on the leadership of the KRU and the KRU to think that she has officially informed us that she is withdrawing the results of her audit of the financial and economic activities of the Ministry of Health for 2008-2009. What is the reason? And the reason is simple, medical corrupts, as before, are now in office. Today, they are being protected by the highest government official in Ukraine. That is the real commitment to combating corruption in health care. As for the charges against the government of Tymoshenko, it was, like such a bubble, that it just snapped and showed that the Pacific lawyers, the ocean audiences, were in vain getting huge amounts of money for their work, sorry. And the question now is, why should this cost be paid from Ukraine's budget? Because it's about huge amounts, amounts that exceed a million dollars. What government fund does this cost support? And why is the state, today, really doing corruption by paying huge sums to the Pacific audience? It is known that it has always advocated questionable customers — African dictators, unclean entrepreneurs, and even protected Monique Levinsky. And you know, maybe the last one really helped, because in a period of what's called a scandal with the President of the then United Nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u189	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u190	I'm done. The United States of America, Bill Clinton, all the charges against the company went to the address of the then president. And no one said, "Mona is you, you dirty girl." Maybe these lawyers are going to help Azarov today, because he's putting a very difficult task on them -- to keep the Ukrainian society's opinion from the thorny issues: from the price crisis, from the collapse of the budget process, from the unjustified rise in gas and water tariffs, but that's not what any lawyers are going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u191	I'd like to invite Sergey Chrapov, a faction of Communists. I will follow him, Yuri Gnatkevitch, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u192	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, today I would like to address one of the most serious problems in the Dnepropetrov region, the disposal of solid rocket fuel in the city of Pavlovgrad in the chemical plant. For five years, the orange team taught us to live by American recipes. The people of Pavlovrad know what the U.S. promise is, not to be heard. At a time when our country needed to be deprived of nuclear status, the White House promised “Golden Mountains”. The states then promised to fully fund all missile disposal activities, but as soon as the missiles were removed from duty, all the programmes were cut 50 times and the problem was fully resolved in Ukraine and in particular in the Pavlovgrad chemical plant. For 5 years, 5,000 tons of solid rocket fuel that poses a major threat to the inhabitants is, in fact, still under the open sky throughout eastern Ukraine. Only 157 tons have been disposed of. In fact, the citizens were left with their misery on their own. The Government of Yulia Timoshenko has placed such figures in the budget for a solid rocket fuel disposal programme that they would be difficult to protect even the facility. Only through the intervention of the Communist faction has additional funds been mined, but they are not enough to build a line on solid rocket fuel. This will not only allow the process of recycling to be fully operational, but also provide citizens with new jobs. After all, during the years of independence, the number of employees of the Pavlovgrad Hymzad has decreased from 10,000 to 800. In addition to the purely economic side, account must be taken of and perhaps the most important environmental one. PCS is becoming a real threat not only for Dnepropetrov region, because the storage of solid rocket fuel, which was to be disposed of by the end of 2009, has long expired. An environmental and technological disaster could result in an unplanned spontaneous combustion of 5,000 tons of fuel stored on the premises of the enterprise. If the problem is not addressed at the state level today, Pavlovgrad can become a synonym of Chernobyl. I would like to call on the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure, as soon as possible, sufficient funding for the programme for the disposal of solid rocket fuel in Pavlovgrad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u193	I invite Yuri Gnatkević, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. And it will end the hour of the “Victory” Eugene Wolintz, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u194	The faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, which has always spoken in defense of Ukrainian nationality, the spirituality of the Ukrainian people, its language, has prepared such a statement. Created with the violation of the Constitution, the Parliamentary Capitalist-Communist Coalition continues to attack all the spiritual Ukrainians in Ukraine. Members of the coalition threaten that the local elections, which will take place on October 31, will be approved by the pro-Russians. and signed by the leaders of the faction of the Party of Regions, Communists and the representative of the faction of the “Lituin Block” draft of the Law on Languages. According to them, this law should finally resolve the language issue in Ukraine by means of the legislative exercise of bilingualism, which seems to have historically formed and, according to the bill, is a major acquisition of Ukrainians. In fact, bilingualism did not come about by itself; it was a national oppression at a time when Russia, according to Bolshevik chief Lenin, was “the prison of the nations”. It was drafted by Welsh and Een decrees, which prohibited Ukrainian language from being shot at by Ukrainian intelligence in Solovks, the closure of Ukrainian schools, and the total rise of our higher school in Brezhnev. The language situation is really complicated. Ukrainian language in Ukraine, because of its 300 years of destruction by Russian chauvinism, has become a homemaker. During the 20th year of Independence, it was pushed out of most spheres of Ukrainian social life. A Ukrainian film has been destroyed. Russian television shows and fighters who do not come off television screens are invited to watch, reading something below in small letters. Not only in Ukrainians Donecka, Kharkiv, and Mikolayev, but also in the capital city it is difficult to hear the Ukrainian word, to buy a book or a newspaper. The oligarchs who robbed state factories and factories spend skyrocketing capitals to support Russian, not state language, as evidenced by Russian press and television. The bill prepared by the faction of the Party of the Regions, if adopted, will destroy the motivations for learning the Ukrainian language of young people, students, government officials, and lead to the perpetuation of the dominant position of the Russian language. The basic terms “regional languages” and “language groups” proposed in the bill are unconstitutional. As a result of the granting of regional languages and, in real life, only Russian language, official status in certain territories, and the granting of local councils the right to decide for themselves which language should be recognized as regional, interethnic conflicts and the disintegration of the Ukrainian nation into its separate parts, for there is no nation that has two languages. The anti-Ukrainian forces in parliament, encouraged by the success of Minister Tobacco in expelling the Ukrainian language from education, dared to publish their language bill, which they will doubtless push with the insolence with which they ratified the Russian fleet agreement in Crimea. The “BUT – “Fatherland” faction reminds us that the faction has long prepared two basic versions of the Language Law, but Parliament’s leadership has not yet been found to be necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u195	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u196	Responsibilities toward the Ukrainian people, the memory of millions of Ukrainians who have given their lives for the dignity of the Ukrainian nation, obliges us not to allow the intentions of their enemies to be realized. Russia’s latest plans for chauvinists will not pass!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u197	I'd like to invite Eugene Volintz, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u198	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! In the cities of Dobropol, Belozerski, Vodnoy village, Novodonetsk, Donetsk region, there are over 90,000 people living in the Donetsk region, who are actually suffering from the arbitrary treatment of REC employees. About two thirds of the population have been deprived of gas supplies to their homes since 2000 and have been forced to use electrolytes, electric heaters. For more than 10 years, these residents have paid for electricity as regular consumers, rather than for concessional tariffs set for electricity houses, and so on. For more than 10 years, residents of these cities, as well as others, such as Debaltsovo Donetsk, have been robbing energy suppliers of solid amounts. Given that living conditions are far from ideal in small cities, electricity consumption in winter, which is actually 6-7 months a year, increases several times and pays accordingly. The actions of REC employees have recently been indignant, as fines and the disconnection from electricity systems over the past 4-5 months have become massive and far from justified, as evidenced by the increased number of complaints by the population. In 10 years, local authorities have not taken any action to improve the lives of their citizens in the best possible way. In view of the above, I ask the relevant authorities to address the situation and to restore justice in respect of this category of citizens. We are with you – legislators, Kabmin, NCRE – as enforcers in the formation of electricity tariffs, we must take into account the social conditions of the population of our cities and villages, since the restriction on electricity consumption and the imposition of penalties that are actually misused by the RECs is a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens to a decent life. I also draw your attention to the economic crisis. Financial fraud and misconduct related to the operation of credit unions, investment firms, joint ventures and so on have increased in the country. A good example is the city of Harcisk Donetsk. Hundreds of people have been deceived and, in fact, robbed by the so-called Golden Rose investment company. For several years Gold Rose has attracted high interest. Since 2008, it has not only stopped paying interest, but also paid back the money invested. Many pensioners, persons with disabilities and citizens of other socially vulnerable categories of citizens are among the investors of Golden Rose. The deceiving investors of Golden Rose are now on the verge of despair, losing their last savings. Using the lack of legislation, insufficient control by the public supervisory financial authorities, the Golden Rose leadership evades liability to investors before the law. In my opinion, I appeal to the Attorney General's Office. I appeal to the Attorney-General's Office to address the situation and to take over the protection of the rights of investors, Golden Rose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-24-m0.u199	Please prepare an appropriate parliamentary request for the Attorney General's Office. I remind you that next week the Supreme Council, and more specifically the national deputies, are working with the electorate. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, October 5, at 10 a.m. And on Monday, October 4, at 11: 00 a.m., there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
