ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:02:19]] Cards were registered, I emphasize, with cards in the 397 national deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we must now consider a draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine regarding the participation of Ukraine's peacekeeping contingent in providing operational support to the UN Mission in Côte d'Ivoire. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Defence of Možarovsky. And the co-reporter is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. The request is: Let us consider the matter in a simplified way. Please vote for this proposal. [[16:03:16]] For 190 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Možarovsky Volodymir Mikolaajovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u2	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine decided on the operational use of two MI-8 helicopters and 25 military personnel from the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent of the United Nations Mission in Liberia to Côte d'Ivoire during the presidential elections. Such a decision was taken on the basis of a personal appeal by the Secretary -General of the United Nations Organization and by the United Nations Security Council to provide mutual operational support between the United Nations Missions located in those countries. In Liberia since 2004, Ukraine has been performing peacekeeping tasks for the 56th individual helicopter crew of 275 people and 11 helicopters. The decision of the President of Ukraine will not require additional financial costs from the state budget, all expenses at the expense of the United Nations. Determined forces and means will be at a permanent location, or Liberia, in readiness to perform tasks. The movement of two transport helicopters to Côte d’Ivoire and their use are planned only if needed during the elections and for a period of up to two months after completion. In general, the security situation in the country is relatively stable. All the organizational issues about nutrition, health care are solved, the health-epidemiology situation is not significantly different from that of Liberia. The personal composition of the Ukrainian-technological contingent is ready for the task. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the draft law on 3 November this year and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u3	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u4	Honourable Volodymira Mihailovich, distinguished colleagues, drafts a bill designed to regulate the President's decision to provide operational support to the United Nations mission in Côte d'Ivoire. On October 31, this year, the presidential election took place. According to previous reports, none of the 14 candidates have obtained the number of votes, so re-elections are envisaged. Our participation by our peacemakers is anticipated for 30 days. The UN Mission decided that temporary deployment at Abidjan airport would be possible. [[Côte d’Ivoire]] The infrastructure of Buake Central Airport allows for the organization of a dedicated warehouse for engineering and logistics. Security and protection of the contingent will be carried out by the UN forces. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are positive. Yesterday, the bill was considered at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council, which decided to propose to the Supreme Council that it be based and approved by the President. “For” voted eight members, “against ” five. At the same time, I have the commission of our committee to contact the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council and the Government of Ukraine in order to eliminate the humiliating state of payment for the military service of our peacekeepers. Ten countries perform tasks in Côte d’Ivoire, and in Liberia, the Ukrainian contingent pays the lowest. Similarly to the Russian Federation's equivalent contingent in the Republic of Chad: Ukraine, soldier, sergeant up to $790, Russia 1,700; junior officer: Russia up to $3,000, Ukraine 1140; flyer: Ukraine – 1230, Russia – 3,000; team commander: Ukraine – 1414, Russia – 3017. We demand justice. Next, our committee invites the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council and the government not to continue the mission after 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u5	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss the matter? You don't? Then. Mikola Tomenko, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I think the Secretary of Defense is very busy because the deputy has reported. Because I'm sure I remember when we voted on this issue in 2003, and it's about our contingent in Liberia, where there are 300 people. It's just for those of you who didn't serve in the army, I want to say that these are helicopter units that are the most vulnerable in combat. And then, as I recall, we voted three times on this issue in order to make this important decision. Now of these 300 people will be assigned to Côte d'Ivoire, where, by the way, 10 years of presidential elections have not been held. So it seems to me that this level of question, when it comes to protecting people, the minister would have to report. I take it he's got a good reason. The second question. There's no reelection. There's the first round of elections, and there's going to be the second round of elections. Although the date is not defined. And in this regard, of course, there is a problem with the law, since it is proposed 30 days before the elections, and the elections are already coming. Alexander Kuzmuk said 30 days. Obviously, then, the law should say that for 30 days. Because it looks like 90 days. And most importantly, what I wanted to hear was that the procedure was shortened. Our involvement of peacekeepers is clearly foreseen that we pay from the State Budget and then the UN compensates us. This is our contingent in Liberia in 2003. My question is, Have we been compensated for this money or compensated? Because it resists, I fully support Alexander Kuzmuk, that these are actually people in war, and they have to be "a" -- secure, both in terms of life security, and in terms of financial support. But I understand that if we only finance it from the State Budget, and we don't get the money back, one story, and if we get it back, that's another story. So I don't think that's a simple solution. It should not be discussed in short - term terms. But the key thing we need to understand is that these people in Liberia today, which we're sending to Côte d'Ivoire, are people who are in a difficult situation that has to do with the real risk of life.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Defence Minister Mikhailo Bronislavovich Ježel is on his way out, explaining his absence. At the same time, I would like the Cabinet of Ministers to take this observation into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine regarding the participation of Ukraine's peacekeeping contingent in providing operational support to the UN Mission in Côte d'Ivoire is put to the vote. [[16:12:24]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are now proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel-Energy Enterprises. [[on debt restructuring terms]] [[Registration number 7266]] The rapporteur is the head of the PEC Committee on Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. The request, your fellow Members, from the committee to consider the matter in a simplified manner. I'm putting him to the vote, right, Mikola Volodymyrovich? Please vote. [[16:13:09]] For 199 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, which I have introduced with National Deputy Korgem, is a bill aimed at stepping up debt repayment processes in the fuel and energy complex introduced by the well-known Law under number 2711 on measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of PEC enterprises. It is proposed to change the maximum duration for which the debt may be restructured, the calculation date on which each participant is fixed the amount of credit and receivables, as well as the total duration of the law. We came from the fact that, in the period from the fifth to the eighth year, that is, before the beginning of the global financial crisis, the debt owed to all PEC companies to the Energy Company decreased by 5 times, to 119 million dollars. It follows that the introduction of the legal mechanisms has had a positive impact on the state of the energy sector and, in the fifth and eighth years, has led to a significant steady reduction in debt. [[2711]] But with the start of the crisis, there has been a sharp increase in debt for 2009 to 1 billion 19 million dollars. The crisis has made it impossible to complete the debt repayment process in the field, and the law that has been created with the efficient repayment mechanisms has completed its work by the end of this year. The existence of a large amount of creditors' debt, the lack of funds and clear mechanisms to repay it in the short term, is responsible for the risk of bankruptcy of large state energy enterprises. That's what we're proposing. First. The special procedure of the law continues until January 1, 2013. [[2711]] The other one. Allow the restructuring of creditors and receivables for up to 20 years from the date on which the relevant debt restructuring agreements are concluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u9	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u10	This will double the tariff burden as the sole source of debt repayment. And the last. Set an accounting date from 1 January 2007 on which each participant is fixed the amount of credit and receivables to repay by applying the mechanism of law. Since I am also representing the position of the committee on this issue, I am leading you to know that the committee recommends the adoption of a bill as a basis. The vote on the committee was unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u11	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is not the first time that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has applied such admissions. It would seem that as a result of measures aimed at ensuring the continuous operation of the fuel-energy complex, the price of energy and the heat that our people receive should be constantly reduced and reduced. I don't know what the financial crisis is about. That's it. This isn't from 2008-2009, this is from 2007, this is what they've been trying to do before. What effect we still don't know. What this led to, we don't understand, we don't see. To explain to the voters our position during the vote, for example, I do not understand. Besides, I never heard from the head of the committee, or perhaps anyone from the government, and there is no one from the government. What is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine because such restructuring is carried out by the tax authorities together with the authorities of the State? For me, for example, this bill remains mysterious and incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I therefore put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. [[on debt restructuring terms]] [[Registration number 7266]] Please vote. [[16:18:33]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the issuance of publications on public procurement terms. [[Registration number 6554]] The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:19:12]] For 205 Decision taken. The reporter is the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u14	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the issuance of publishing products on public procurement terms. The purpose of this bill is to establish a procedure for the release and distribution of publishing products under the conditions of the procurement, as well as to regulate the relationship between the contracting parties or the contracting party in the person of the State and the contracting authorities. The bill provides for amendments to the Law on Publishing, introduces article 5, paragraph one, which deals with two innovations, which are determined in this bill by the State Procurement Indicators, which may be the total volume of the printed edition, its circulation and its cost. And the second money is that the amount of government-issued publishing should correspond to the total volume of distribution. And the Law on State Support for the Bookstore is amended to state that publishers who issue book products, the publisher of products, are entitled, once they have executed a government order for the production of their own funds under the conditions laid down in the author's contract for the additional distribution of the publication issued on government orders, to fill the book market and to satisfy their own production needs. So the implementation of the project does not require material costs and financial costs, the costs are financed from the state budget, according to the State Program in the position of the State. The committee is familiar with the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, the observations relate to the terminology of some inconsistencies, and they also refer to the structure and introduction of changes to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u15	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u16	When preparing the draft for second reading, the committee will actively work on its work. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u18	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, is a good, pragmatic law. Unfortunately, he does not go ahead, as it were, in the perspective of the book study, he goes forward in life. Because that's what this bill says, it's actually already indicated life, and it's very often just being implemented. As a result, we have no choice but to legitimize the situation. Indeed, we can't compare the bookkeeping, by the way, to the bookkeeping of the program “The Ukrainian Book” there are very little funds, just, well, shamefully meager costs, and before that they don't all come to the committee and they're already hanging such debts over the years and in previous years. It's also a fact. And the fact that we have a situation that is really disgraceful in Ukraine, that today is barely one book, when far ahead is Russia and Belarus. That is, those who were at the start of a situation similar to that of Ukraine. Because of this, it is not possible to compare the publication of a book with sales, such as coal or something. The law states that there is indeed a tendency here. And second of all, that's what Yuri Alexanderovich was talking about here. We're really going to improve the bookcase, so this bill is going to have a positive, positive effect on the situation in the bookcase. Because after a government order has been executed, the book has been produced, as much as it needs for libraries there, and the rest of the publishers can use the ready disks with this book, put their money on paper, deposit their money in the printery, and for example, release the additional circulation. This circulation could be, by the way, a little bit cheaper than, let's say, if it was being prepared by publishing itself. Because of this, it is a very inviting law. And I don't think any of you will have a hand not to vote for him. But I insist and the committee insists that it should not be accepted as a whole. Let's take it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u19	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u20	There are serious comments from our Legal Office. We need to work on it. Moreover, the administration even insists on rejecting it and sending it for work. No, we feel that it should be accepted in the first reading today. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u21	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u22	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. The bill proposes amending the laws on publishing and public support for the bookstore to establish order and distribution of publishing products on public procurement terms. We support this bill on a basis, we support it in the first reading. At the same time, there are really a lot of observations, including the technical and legal nature, and the inadequacy of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement by defining one customer. So, indeed, this law must be adopted as a basis. But what I want to focus on is what Vladimir Alexanderovich said about the fact that for many years government procurement, in particular in the bookstore, is a relatively small amount of money. It seems that in 2005 there was a maximum of 40 million. In recent years this has barely reached 15-20 million. For example, the library of the Shevchenkow Prize winners or the publishing of our literature classics, the publishing of books for national and public minorities, as provided for in the book, which is published at public expense, cannot be published at these costs. There are such programs in the fields. Some areas have significantly improved the book - making business in recent years by devoting funds from the district budget. And the mechanism that Vladimir Aleksandrovich was talking about will allow you to increase the bookkeeping production, bring these laws into line, but this law really needs to be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u23	Thank you. Alexander Steshenko passes on the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I am joining my colleagues on the need to support this bill, but there is another important segment that is directly related to the issue of which the bill is a subject that we are not talking about. So what we're talking about right now is books that are being funded according to the state budget for government funds that should get to the libraries as soon as possible. Instead, libraries are now purchasing much more books for the reader, and today there is a huge problem with them because of the Law on the Purchase of Goods and Services. I'll ask you, because let me tell you about the Ukrainian book. So that's because this law provides for the same kind of tender, and as far as I'm concerned about the situation with the Kiev libraries, as we're all in the tender business, we're done. There's this monopolistic structure that's always winning all the tenders, and it's buying books with such a twist that those miserable copies that go to libraries, they can buy almost twice as many books for that money as they can buy for themselves. I'm already talking about the problem that in Kiev, in general, in recent years, the young Chernewecki and his young team have not spent any money at all. So it's just for sponsorship or for the expense of MPs. For example, the Kyiv City Council, for example, we were gathering libraries to be updated a little bit, even though the newspapers were there to be found in the libraries. So this is my request. To help you, Yuri Alexanderovich, you would think and we would weaken these tender requirements for the purchase of books by libraries that don't go through government publications, but what appears to be private publishers and so on. Libraries have some money, but they want to buy it quickly and cheaper. I think the government would have accepted our position. It's not a terrible cost for the liberalization of tender legislation, but it would immediately expand the ability of libraries to respond quickly to the book demand of our readers. Thank you. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, no one insists? Let us conclude our consideration of the matter. Let me give you a few words as a generalization. The point is that this bill itself must serve as a serious basis for us to talk about the publishing work in general and the Ukrainian book. At the same time, they looked at legislation as it regulated the issue. I'm going to give you an example of this. The Academy of Sciences publishes the Encyclopedia of History of Ukraine. Seven volumes were produced. Every year, in order to publish the volume, I no longer say that it is a torture, a search for money, and a tender. If the academic edition, “Science Thought”, has published previous volumes, please tell us what might be the tender?Oh, my God! Packs of papers, then everything goes back to its circle. Therefore, the committee should be instructed to make appropriate proposals. Don't make this theater absurd. Dear colleagues! The committee's proposal is to adopt the bill as a basis. I'm voting on this proposal. That is, the adoption of a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the issuance of publications on public procurement terms. Registration number 6554. Please vote. [[16:30:42.]] For 349 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I am announcing a draft Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. [[concerning the submission and presentation of pension documents]] [[Registration number 6675]] There is a request from the committee to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:31:23]] For-198 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Muštinin Vitaly Vadimovich. He is Secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Samuelka Catherine Semenovna. Until I begin to report to the reporter, I ask the secretariat to examine how many persons have reported who have been designated by the Cabinet of Ministers or the President of Ukraine. In this case, there should be a report by the Minister of Social Policy and Labour. A minister’s deputy comes in a clear order. I ask you to prepare and we will send a proper address. Next time, don't let it happen again. It's disrespectful. Please, it's not a claim to a reporter, but it's just a statement of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology is being considered, which is designed for the purpose of legislative regulation of the order and the drafting of documents for the appointment of pensions in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. I would like to point out that, as of today, Ukraine's Science and Technology Act has not established an order for the application for the appointment or recalculation of pensions, the Pension Fund has applied a mechanism for the submission of documents defined in accordance with the Law on Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance. At the same time, we have a great deal of questions about pensioning to scientific workers, taking into account the specificities of their work. With a view to withdrawing these objections, the bill stipulates that the application for the appointment or recalculation of the pension and other necessary documents shall be submitted to the territorial body of the Pension Fund of Ukraine or to the authorized body or authorized person. In doing so, the submission of documents will be determined by the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, in agreement with the specialized central executive authorities in the field of work and social policy, in the field of education and science and in the field of scientific and technical activities. Thus, it is proposed to establish a separate procedure for the submission of documents for the appointment and recalculation of pensions to scientific and technical staff. Given the relevance and relevance of this issue, please support the bill and accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u27	You've got everything, haven't you? Vitaly Vadimovich, are you all right? Have a seat, please. The Coroner is the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Catherine Semenovna Samoylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u28	The bill is more of a purely technical nature. You know that we have the basic Pension Insurance Act and the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology. The minister’s deputy minister has already been told that there is no definition of which documents should be filed. And so what we have to say is that every regional pension fund starts saying that you have to write a statement, there's got to be a reference that confirms the course of scientific and scientific teaching work, the data on the organization's application to the scientific institution, the information on the certification of the scientific institution. Well, we can agree on that, but sometimes every pension fund requires yet some incomprehensible help. And that's why we, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, have been repeatedly approached by people who should receive this pension to produce a standard. That's the law that puts it in the general standard. And the committee considered this bill. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we asked the committee to adopt a bill as a whole because it has a technical character. But we would like to give an appropriate mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or to the Ministry of Education, which would work under a legal instrument, where he has already made a clear list of those documents that should be submitted for the accounting of scientific and scientific and technical pensions. I would very much like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u29	Yes, thank you, Catherine Seed. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I have the names of the national deputies? Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Moses will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, why did I ask for your word? This bill was discussed at the Committee on Social Policy and Work, and we made a proposal to accept it as a law as a whole and agreed to Catherine's proposal for the Seminary to do so. Well, it's like a normative document has to be under the law, a list of documents and a list of those procedures that have to be carried out so that science and education workers don't get dizzy. That's why I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, propose, and I agreed with the deputy minister to vote in favour of this bill as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u31	Thank you, too. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u32	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to a colleague of Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u33	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u34	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. We support the need for the adoption of this law, which defines a separate order for the submission of applications and the issuance of documents for the retirement of workers under the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering. But I quote the supplement to article 24: “Referred to by the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in agreement with the specialized central executive authorities in the field of work and social policy, in the field of science and education and in the field of science and science and technology and transfer”. So there's a fear that this is exactly what this is. The transcription of the agreement, as we know in practice, that each department determines its prerequisites, its principles for the submission of these documents, and perhaps even our good intentions can complicate the drafting of these documents. So the question is, really, if we were to adopt this law so that these central executive authorities don't complicate our task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. I mean. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you deny it, so we don't put it to the vote. I mean, in general. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering. [[concerning the submission and presentation of pension documents]] [[Registration number 6675]] Please vote. [[16:39:32]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Denials the MP. Dear colleagues, then I'm going to put a motion to the vote: to have the committee prepare him for the second reading of the reduced procedure for the next plenary week. Well, dear colleagues, there's a denial. Well, I have no right to put it! Please vote on the proposal to prepare for the second reading of this law by means of a reduced procedure. [[16:40:20]] For 314 Decision taken. I ask the committee to submit this bill for the next plenary week. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the consideration of Bills 7013, 7013-1 to be carried over to the next plenary week in connection with the need to finalize the matter and reconcile positions. I'd like to put it to a vote, and I'd like to support this: the transfer of the draft legislation -- one government, one alternative, one parliamentary -- registration numbers 7013, 7013-1 to the next plenary week. Please vote. [[16:41:25]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now announce the draft Seed Law. The request to consider the matter by a reduced procedure is that the law consists of 34 articles. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:41:59]] For-200 Decision taken. Thank you. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Tereshuk. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Marina Perestenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, the family is one of the same important sectors of agriculture and there are quite a lot of problems in seeding today. The Seed and Plant Material Act was adopted eight years ago. Many changes have been made, and today there is an urgent need for further changes. This bill, which we are proposing today, was drafted in 2008. And time is changing so rapidly that two years later, new circumstances have arisen that force the draft law to be finalized. We joined the World Trade Organization. Ukraine has joined the seed schemes of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The laboratory of the Ukrainian National Seed Inspectorate of the International Association for the Quality Control of the “Ista” Seed has already been accredited. That is why this bill, which has been in the Supreme Council for so long, today needs a radical change. And we're not going to change this bill because there are a lot of changes that need to be made, and with my colleague Kaletnik, we've proposed another bill that's being discussed today at the Committee on Agricultural Policy, Land Relations. So today we're proposing to reject the bill, and then we're going to consider the next one, which will take into account the positions that are valuable in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, there is no need to report. The committee doesn't mind? Dear colleagues, the committee doesn't object, so I'm voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft Seed Act. [[Registration number 4126]] Please vote. It's about taking a picture off the table. [[16:44:22]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Animal World Act is being announced for consideration. [[on strengthening measures for the protection and rational use of the animal world and the fight against poaching]] [[Registration number 6458, 6458-1]] Dear colleagues, they strongly suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[16:45:09]] For 201 Decision taken. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, we have a very difficult situation, because Alexander Dove and I have an ideologically shared position here in the struggle to protect the environment, animal and plant life, and the bills are formally alternative. The only problem is that Alexander has gone a long way, and he offers a number of warnings about both the protection of fishing and the protection of hunting. In my bill, I worked with our public organizations, including the Ukrainian fishing community, the Kyiv Ecological Club and others, and I decided to focus on just one problem that. is the understanding that everyone views. The point is that today, in fact, throughout Europe, and including the Russian Eurasian part, we have remained the only country where, in fact, the legal trade in prohibited fishing poachers, as it were, is flourishing. Belarus banned the import of animal extraction tools in 2000, fishing, I mean, Russia -- from January 1, 2009. What does that mean? This means, for example, that electric bicycles are legally imported into Ukraine from Germany, from other countries. For example, synthetic nets are legally imported into Ukraine. I'll tell you, for example, a synthetic fishing net can be bought for 70 or 100 bracelets. [[150 meters, this can be closed to Dnipro.]] And then, if you cover it all up, it's so cheap, it's so cheap that they took that fish, and the net goes down on the waterhole, and it's all over the place and it's all over the place. Today, I looked at an exhibition that was held by our environmentalists. They're in the spring, especially during the rainy season, and they catch nets, these cheap nets, with our water. We've had people swim these nets before, they don't knit because no one buys them. How can you buy this net in the market for 20 bucks? So I talked to our fishing organizations, and I talked to the Customs. Customs fully supports us and asks the only thing -- we have to ban imports into Ukraine of these poaching tools, then they'll set a border, and we'll stop this whole story. And the fishermen and the public inspectors with us can clean up what we have in Ukraine. So we need to make a difficult decision. I support Alexander as a wrestler for the ecology of the Pigeon. But according to his bill, there is a serious warning that he has expanded the case of animal farming in such a way that everyone thinks that hunting can be prohibited at all, because the vast amplitude, as it were, is prohibited by the list of illegal means. I'd like to support Alexander, and my colleagues have supported our bill as a basis for fishing, and we have a common position with the Pigeon. [[Tomenka, Seminogi, Danilenka, Goroškevicha]] And after hunting, we will advise against harm, and in the second reading, we can add some banning methods and hunting. I want to say it again. As far as the norm of this fishing, the ban on the import of poachers is concerned, we have a common consensus here. And I would ask our bill to support it in the first reading. And Alexander and I and other social organizations will prepare for the second reading of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u39	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Chernobyl Disaster reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Animal World Act, introduced by the People's Deputies of the Pigeon, and the alternative bill on amendments to the Animal World Act, introduced by the People's Deputies of Tomenko. [[on strengthening measures for the protection and rational use of the animal world and the fight against poaching]] [[Registration number 6458]] [[Registration number 6458]] Law 6458 is designed to improve legislation for the protection and rational use of the animal world. Its task is to strengthen the protection of fish resources, wild animals, and birds from poaching. The committee, in support of the general concept of the bill, notes that the bill requires technical, legal and terminology of compliance with legislation in the field of the protection and rational use of the animal world. Since it is proposed to amend the Animal World Act, but the effects of the proposed changes apply to it, it is much broader and applies to other bills. The conclusion of the Chief Science and Technology Administration is to send this bill for further work. Bill 6458-1 is, in fact, a specific bill that proposes a legislative ban on the manufacture, sale and use of poaching tools, as well as banning imports into Ukraine of traps, synthetic nets, electrodes used solely for poaching purposes. In line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which also proposes to send this bill for further work, the Committee of the Supreme Council, based on the urgent need for the adoption of these bills, proposes. First. Draft registration number 6458 is accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u41	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u42	Take it as a base. Bill No. 6458 restore the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work. I agree with Mikli Tomenko's view that there is indeed a proposal to adopt Bill 6458 as the basis for the first reading. And for the second reading, the committee commits itself to the rational issues raised in Bill 6458 by our colleague the Pigeon, to consider and prepare for adoption as a whole, indeed a bill that will help combat poaching in our country. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u43	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u44	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. We support the adoption of Law 6458-1, the authors of Tomenko and the co-authors, who have a clear task, a clear goal, is the need for a legislator to defend themselves, make sales and use of poachers. It is a clear mechanism in addressing this goal, it is the introduction of a separate article 52-1 on prohibited tools for acquiring animal-world objects and the addition of article 53 of the Animal World Act to the rules on banning imports into Ukraine from abroad of poaching tools. I know that these bills have already been discussed by public organizations, and the appropriate response of the media was acceptable. And I think we can really adopt this law as a basis and work it out for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u45	Thank you, too. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to go to the hall, especially to colleagues from the coalition, with such an offer, we often have corporate solidarity in the hall, in this case a classic example. There is a bill submitted by the opposition MPs, a bill submitted by members of the coalition. You've heard the argument of Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, the reasoning of the committee head, the colleague who spoke to me. For the state, for society, of course, it would be appropriate to vote now 6458-1 and to read secondly to take into account all the better that is proposed in the bill of the colleague of the Pigeon concerning poaching. I'd like us to now throw aside our corporate political solidarity, and we've done what society demands today, and the state and we've adopted the law that we should have adopted long ago, as all the civilized nations and our neighbours have done. I call on everyone to support 6458-1. In the second reading, consider all that is in the bill of colleagues of the Pigeon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? None. Dear colleagues, let me remind you of the committee's conclusion. It is designed to restore Bill 6458 to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development, and Bill 6458-1 is to be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that both bills need to be redrafted accordingly. Given the discussion and the information that I have just provided, your honorary colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 6458]] The author is Alexander Dove. [[16:55:35]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Now I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Animal World Act. [[Registration number 6458]] [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] Please vote. [[16:56:07]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Honorable colleagues may have listened to such an offer. Considering that this second bill received the support of 142 people's deputies, let's direct it to read again, let them look again, work again, and then we'll go back to its consideration. Can we make that offer? The question is very relevant. I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Animal World Act. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] Please vote. [[16:57:02]] For 344 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal is now under review. [[on the dates and the order in which the address is addressed]] [[Registration number 2650]] There is a request to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:57:37]] For 193 Decision taken. The reporter is Valery Grigorovich Kamchatny. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Edward Ivanovich Pavlenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, this bill is the result of an analysis of the changes that are taking place around the world today, in particular in the information space, and one of the major changes that we propose to make to the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal. It's an opportunity to make your calls through modern information systems, information systems, or in other words via e-mail, and to be able to answer to the citizens at the address they're going to point out. This is a progressive norm that has already been used by the world, and I know that many of our and state bodies have long introduced this practice into their real activities, and we only need to introduce it now as a law. Next, we offer some things that may not be left alone today in the Law on Addressing, especially the possibility of refusing to consider the references that contain images, uncensored expressions, and so forth. True, it is common in our lives. One of our suggestions, for example, is that we propose to complement the list of categories of our citizens that are being considered by the first leaders of the respective bodies, such as: the Heroes of the Soviet Union, the Heroes of the Socialist Work, with such an honorable title that they have somehow forgotten in the law of reference as the Heroes of Ukraine and so forth. So the adoption of appropriate amendments to the Citizens' Appeal Act will prove that our Parliament takes modern trends into account in the information space and goes in the direction, in the ways that civilized countries have chosen for themselves. Thank you. Please be supportive. I know there's a point to our bill. Please support the decision to consider it, perhaps in the first reading or in the second reading, so that we can refine it and make a quality document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u49	Thank you. Edward Ivanovich Pavlenko, please, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u50	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Citizens' Appeal. [[Registration number 2650]] [[of 17.06.08]] [[submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Kamchatnym, Sidelnik, Petrenko]] It should be noted that the main novelty of the bill is the proposal of the authors to settle the issue of granting citizens the right to apply and receive an electronic reply. The very idea of improving the current Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal deserves attention. However, the committee disagrees with the proposed changes and considers them premature. The introduction of such money needs to be balanced, taking into account the specificities of electronic communication. The law should clearly define the characteristics of the application and consideration of electronic references. For the practical implementation of the proposed changes, it is necessary to develop and implement an automatic processing system for electronic communications, and to address the identification of users of public access networks. Moreover, according to the current Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act, a written address should be signed by the applicant, i.e. the use of an electronic digital signature should be introduced. This will require considerable expenditure both from citizens and government authorities and local self - government, as well as from businesses, institutions, and organizations. Not entirely successful are the other drafters of the draft law, particularly article 8 of the law on leaving applications or petitions without consideration. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, since 08.10.2008, the bill was specifically sent for further work. At its meeting on 3 June 2009, the Committee unanimously approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Citizens' Appeal, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Kamchatnym, Sidelnik, Petrenko, to return the subject to the right. [[Registration number 2650]] [[of 17.06.08]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u51	Finish up, please. All of you, yes, Edward Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u52	Yeah. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues who feel it necessary to express their position, please write down the question that is being discussed. Andrew School, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I certainly support all the innovations, and that's very good, and I think the more opportunities for citizens to look to power, the more transparent it will be. But I would like to say a few words about power itself. I think the authorities have already clearly realized that the discount is much cheaper than the answer. So I don't think there's any innovation to be introduced here about the fact that when an insult occurs in a reference, it can not be answered. But you can't answer that, but I think the insult of the person who turned is not the answer, it's the most important thing. Because today’s authorities are written off by default. Soon you can put it there at all, if it's especially e-mail, the job that's going to answer, your call is being considered, everything might be done, but there's nothing we can do to help. This is kind of, like, this form of communication. No one's paying attention to any fact that's ever been presented in a reference. Any, I don't know, screaming messages that are confirmed by informal and actual documents, nobody's paying attention. Even press releases are no longer required for the authorities to react. In fact, this requires a law that requires authority, regardless of which, in any case, to respond to appeals and citizens, primarily citizens, but also officials, and deputies of different levels including. To be honest, for example, local authorities react much faster because they understand that they will turn to local deputies. And to all the other deputies of different levels, neither local nor higher authorities respond. That's why I think it's not bad to introduce innovation, but it's the responsibility of the official not to communicate with the people, not to communicate with society. I think it's the most important situation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u55	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now carefully read these bills, listened to you and watched article 40 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to address individual or collective written references or to personally address the authorities of the State. And where it is written that you are obliged to consider the matter and give a reasonable answer in the legal terms. Is that the answer for the citizens? No, they don't. That is exactly what our MPs are saying. Are they giving us answers? No, it's not. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, including unfortunately, and the leadership of the Supreme Council sometimes provides such answers that we write the second and third times. Because of this, the things that are now written here in this law cannot be taken for granted, such as the addition of part six of article 22 is proposed. “The manager has the right to refuse a citizen’s personal admission if the issues he has already dealt with are already dealt with by the manager and the applicant has received the answer that the clarification is essentially.” What are you doing? Is that the norm to be discussed at all? It's totally unconstitutional. I wish I could. There's another president, there's another head of government, right, the head of government doesn't accept national deputies at all! I'm talking about Azarov. And I'm being heard by a representative of the government here in this lodge of government. And he knows about it. I spoke to him. The Head of the Supreme Council is aware of this. The MP can't get his hands on it! What are you talking about, citizen? But as long as this is guaranteed by law, while a citizen may go to court in extreme cases, the court will oblige someone. And I'm obviously going to go to trial now, before, in the Azarov trial for failing to comply with the status law. But I'll do it. And I would like the rights of citizens to remain intact. Therefore, this law must be applied for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! One minute! The faction that did not speak has the right to speak. Alexander Efraemov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to say that the previous speaker has lied. All the deputies who came either from our faction or colleagues who requested from other factions to meet with Prime Minister Nikolai Janović Azarov generally received this meeting. There has been no case of anyone turning to our faction to organize this meeting, and this meeting has not been organized. If one of the deputies has not personally gone there for some reason, I would like to say that Nikolai Janović is specifically stressed that he will always meet with the deputies. And once again, I want to emphasize, there was no case, at least in my memory, that he would refuse anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who else is insisting on the performance? Dear National Deputies! The fact that the important problem in this bill has been violated is obvious to everyone. And what we need to improve the practice that would allow people to expand their ability to appeal to the institutions of the State is clear. The fact that people have to get a reasoned answer is clear. Well, I happen to have a letter in my hand. I'm writing to a disabled person, I'm talking to the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, and I'm in charge of a deputy. And I didn't go to the deputy, I went to the minister. And it says, "Not laid down." That's our whole level of communication. So we need to make sure that people have the opportunity to look and get a qualified answer, not the answer, but the solution to the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I remind you of the committee's conclusion: To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill needs substantial work. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal. [[on the dates and order of conversions]] [[Registration number 2650]] [[17:09:57]] For the four of us. Ladies and gentlemen, only four deputies supported the bill. So it's rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't go by factions, my dear fellows. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have to consider a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the grounds for exemption from evidence]] [[Registration number 3456]] There is a request from the authors and the committee to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. I put him to the vote. Please vote. [[17:10:56]] For 196 Decision taken. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Filipovich Filipenko. The Coroner is the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u60	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies! The project proposes to harmonize the standards of procedural legislation regarding the grounds for exemption from evidence. This is article 61 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, article 35 of the Code of Conduct and article 72 of the Code of Administrative Justice. It is also suggested that the conditions laid down in judicial decisions be clarified in circumstances that do not require proof. The current gaps in this issue are being used by the parties to abuse procedural rights. Let me give you an example. A court case is artificially created among persons whose interests coincide. As a result of this dispute, a decision is made that establishes the necessary circumstances, such as the recognition of ownership of property, the recognition of rights, and so on. Thus, a false admission is made that does not really correspond to reality. And according to current legislation, such a situation is considered to have been proved in the consideration of others, already genuine disputes. And despite the existence of a well - founded denial by the interested party, the court will in fact no longer be able to do anything, since it is bound by procedural law. As a result, the inadvertent side is fictitiously based. The situation in an artificial dispute takes the necessary decision for itself. Let me give you a specific example of the Supreme Council. Last plenary week, we released the judge of the household court of the Poltava region for violating our oaths. A Ukrainian national deputy, counterpart Jaroslav Suhi, asked the judge: “What did you do when you made a decision on a private enterprise that was exempt from compulsory customs payments for oil spills, thereby causing millions of damages to the state? ” To what the judge simply said: “I had a district court decision. Everything was determined there, all the parties acknowledged. What was I supposed to do?" That is, the judge deliberately avoided the obligation to verify whether it was a real dispute or a fictitious one, while he was covering up a gap in legislation. So just so that we don't release these judges, in order for them to have more responsibility, they better appreciate the judicial decisions that the parties are making, and that's why they're proposing to make these changes. At the same time, I point out that the actual essence of these changes in itself is small. So if the committee reporter doesn't object, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u61	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u62	Thank you. I would like to ask, if there are no comments from the MPs, to adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now from the committee, who do we have to report? There is. Julia Volodymyr, please. Head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u64	On November 18, 2009, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice reviewed draft law number 3456, introduced by the People’s Deputies Pisarenko, Philippenk, and Vorotnuk. The proposed changes, according to the committee, will lead to the protection of the rights of natural and legal persons from unlawful attacks to more complete and objective consideration of cases, making it impossible to use fictitious disputes in civil, commercial, and administrative jurisdictions. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Higher Economic Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Academy of Law and other scientific institutions support the bill and make observations and suggestions. All of these observations and suggestions are of a practical nature. Only the Supreme Court of Ukraine sees the changes proposed. In particular, the Supreme Court considers that the Court is entrusted with its non-proprietary functions in the civil and economic process of gathering evidence to refute the facts or to the voluntary recognition of facts by parties that are contrary to the principle of the parties’ competition. Most of the comments. As I said before, they are of a recommendational nature, so I think that we can support the author's proposal to vote on this bill as a whole, but I have to announce the committee's decision, and that comes from the above. The committee accepted. on the issue of justice recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 3456 in the first reading and on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u65	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Who insists on discussing the matter? Yes. Sign up, please. Yeah, Victor Terrence's handing over to Vlasenko, isn't he? Please, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Verni Dubov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Sergei Valasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I would recommend that the Supreme Council reject this project and turn it over to the authors for further work, because in this case the basic principle of the relevant procedural codes on the release from evidence, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, the case cited by colleague Philippeenko, is in general undermined by the principle of the unity of a court decision. If the facts are established by one judicial authority and no one has been annulled or reviewed, these facts need not be re-examined and impossible to re-examine. Because if we reexamine the same facts in another trial, it will be a conflict of two court decisions. Based on the example of a respected colleague, it would mean that one court decision would establish ownership, and the other court decision would deny ownership, and the citizens would circle between two court decisions, proving one trial and the other trial. It's on the one side. On the other hand, I don't really understand the terminology used by the drafters. What does "failure of judgment" mean? Who set it up? How has this been installed? If this decision is not reviewed, not overturned, it is an effective court decision and is enforceable throughout Ukraine in accordance with article 124 of the Constitution. Who's given the right to say that it's fictitious is not fictitious, Ryder or anything? Please cancel in the order prescribed by law, let the higher court cancel it, and then you can talk about it being another court decision. By adopting this standard, once again, I emphasize that we are going to have a conflict between two court decisions all the time. And we're going to have not a single Raider, as colleagues say, decisions, but 2, 3, 10, 158, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u67	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u68	Dear friends, I, on the other hand, think that the bill is very useful, it's really anti-rider. And these changes should, indeed, lead to the strengthening of the protection of the rights of individuals and legal persons against illegal violations of their rights and interests. These are changes to the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Economic Procedure and the Code of Administrative Justice. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. And besides, I really think you can accept it today as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u69	And Yuri Carmazin, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u70	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to think about it, we'd better do it, or worse if we passed the law, or if we didn't. Well, first of all, I suggest you remind me what's written here. The circumstances recognized by the parties and others involved in the case are not to be proved if there is no doubt in the court about the authenticity of these circumstances and the integrity of their recognition. And how do they recognize these parties if they have a conflict of interest, otherwise they wouldn't be parties? So what was in the previous edition, where it was written, is that the circumstances recognized by the court are generally well known and do not need proof – of course a better edition. That's the first one. I agree here with the assessment of the National Deputy Vlasenko, more importantly, I want to say that further analysis of this bill will lead to and show you that, in fact, a mine is being laid under justice, a mine is being laid, so that some decisions will then be made on the basis of making some on their basis not entirely legal decisions. Obviously, not all of this was understood. I'm talking to the authors, I'm sure they want a good one. But in order to do good, they wrote down a sentence in a criminal case. This is part of the fourth, 35th, a conviction in a criminal case that has gained legal power, or a court order in a case of administrative delinquency is mandatory for an economic court that examines the legal consequences of actions against which a verdict has been passed, or a court ruling on whether or not these actions have taken place, or whether they have been committed by that person. Now, see how this is settled. It says, as to the facts that are established by the court and are relevant to the settlement of the dispute, that is to say. That's why, dear friends, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u71	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u72	I'm done. I believe that we do not need to adopt such a law, and the Supreme Court has rightly expressed its warnings that it may be dangerous. Let me put it this way, it could be a mine that would explode completely on every case that would then be very difficult to exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u73	Yes, the honourable national deputies, the matter has been discussed. Who insists on the performance? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that this document deserves to be accepted as a basis by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[Registration number 3456]] [[on the grounds for exemption from evidence]] [[17:22:09]] For 247 Decision taken. Yes, the honourable national deputies, the clarification of one. You and I today have adopted a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain draft legislative acts. [[Registration number 7281]] This included legislative initiatives by national MPs in part of the liberation of ministers. That's what I'm asking. In order for us to record the transcripts, the clarification will be in the title of the draft decree: the removal of certain legislative acts and regulations of a specific nature. Is there no objection? It's for the stenographer to take this into account in the question. I am grateful to Sergio Sass for the clarification he gave in writing. Well, in the text, respectively, in the notation part. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on arbitral tribunals. [[on the sub-sub-subjectity of matters]] [[Registration numbers 6670, 6670-1]] The request was made to consider these issues by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:23:43]] For 208 Decision taken. Reporters: Ukrainian national deputies Valerius Pisarenko and Yuri Miroshnichenko And the committee will be made by Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika. Valerius Volodymyrovich is a Filipenko? Pisarenko, I'm sorry. Then please, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Dear colleagues, in addition, we have yet another bill to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u74	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Actually, these are two similar bills. Unfortunately, our colleague, Valery Pisarenko, is missing. But the subject matter of regulation is one. This is about protecting the rights of consumers. The bill proposes that the issues before the arbitral courts be abolished in cases related to consumer protection. For one thing, this is a practical question that we have raised when citizens of Ukraine began mass addressing us in disputes with banks. Banks, insurance companies in agreements with their customers, including disputes, are considered, not in courts of general jurisdiction, but in arbitral courts, where they may be more likely to influence the position of judges. And accordingly, citizens lose their jobs all the time. In order not to undermine confidence in the judicial system, therefore, we suggest that we exclude from the list of issues before the arbitral courts cases involving the protection of consumer rights. In the general courts, these cases will be dealt with and the decisions will be duly approved. So I'm actually asking you to support this bill because it's designed to protect the legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u75	Yes, thank you, too. Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u76	The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice will consider two bills at its meeting: number 6670 and 6670-1. [[author - People's MP Pisarenko]] [[author: People's MP Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich]] Yuri Romanovich has already proved the essence of these bills. The aim is to adopt changes in the rules that will ensure the consumer’s rights in the future to protect its rights under legislation. Since both bills have one purpose and differ in content of their presentation, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice recommend the adoption of Bill 6670-1, the author of which is National Deputy Mirozničenko Yuri Romanovich, as the content of the bill has been more effectively put forward. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Justice, the judiciary and the scientific institutions. The Association of Ukrainian Banks, which will be considered by the committee during the drafting of the bill for second reading, also sent comments and suggestions to him. Please accept Bill 6670-1 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk is transferring the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u78	Vladimir Karpuk. Pass it on to Arjevitina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u79	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again about banks, but we have about 300 arbitral courts in various fields in our country, so let us remember that too. This bill, in my opinion, is not really about protecting the rights of consumers, but about restricting them to the right to choose a case because of the prohibition in the Third Courts. The authors cite the following arguments, stating that the codex imposes arbitral warnings. But this seems like a journalistic term to me, because anyone who makes contracts knows that under article 627 of the Civil Code, coercion is a prohibited method and wins in court without question. The second argument is that public service users do not pay with a stick and do not pay in an arbitral court. But it's not really the case in life if consumers don't actually pay a government tax, so they pay another tax, which is called the Information Technology Costs of the Trial, which ranges from 37 dollars to 120. And that's the sort of arbitral sums that have to be paid when they're being tried in an arbitral court. And by the way, if a consumer loses in a public court, he's being held accountable. Therefore, the claim that consumers do not pay in a public court does not correspond to reality. Third. The third argument is that the arbitral tribunals do not consider the complainant’s whereabouts. But, honourable Members, you and I have removed this rule ourselves in March, let's put it back and there will be no problem. So my suggestion, we should not prohibit our consumers from choosing either a court or an arbitral or a state court. We have to improve the terms and he has to choose where he goes. In order to do that, it's enough to impose two norms, first of all, to release applicants from payment in arbitral courts, once and twice, we have to reverse the rule that this is being considered at the place where they live. And in this way, we have to go back from the prohibition concept to the concept of improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u81	Microphone, please. Do you have everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u82	So my proposal, or turn it back, honestly, to pre-work or to second reading to change this prohibition concept into a concept of improvement for a person of choice in a court or another. I think it'll be the right thing to do, and the Ukrainians will thank us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? None. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing the adoption of Bill 6670-1. [[author - Yuri Miroshnichenko]] The Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration also holds a similar position. Your attention, please. I am voting on the bill (registration number 6670 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on arbitral tribunals) (registration of cases). Author: Valerius Pisarenko. [[17:31:34]] For-7. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on arbitral tribunals. [[on the subjectivity of consumer rights cases by the arbitral tribunal]] [[17:32:12]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, now the latest draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving land management in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 7035]] Under the reduced procedure, there is a proposal to consider. [[17:32:57]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the State Committee and Land Resources of Kulinić Vladimir Vasilovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikhailovich Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u84	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving land administration in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out the President’s mandate of August 12, 2010. The legislative act is aimed at improving land relations, organizing the powers of state authorities, local self-government and the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It should be noted that in the area of autonomy there are a number of administrative units where there are no government administrations: Great Yalta, Alushta, Sudak, Kerch, Feodosia, Eupatoria Outside of the data, there is no clear legal field for land administration and decision making. Over the years, the ARC Council of Ministers has been carrying out the mandate in individual cases, in individual councils, and this leads to a variety of interpretations of such decisions. Unwarranted and sometimes illegal decisions by local governments to manage a certain category of land in populated areas have taken place. Every year, there are thousands of such violations of existing legislation in the absence of a clear delimitation of power. Regrettably, the situation in the field of legislation has led to unreasonable use and especially valuable land on the southern coast of Crimea. In this context, it is envisaged to amend Article 2021 of the Earth Code on the Establishment and Change of Land Destinations, Articles 118, 119, 122, 123, 124 of the Rules on Free Privatization of the Right to Change Property Rights, in fact, there are insufficient powers in these articles. Proposals are made to amend articles 127, 128, 134, 137, 146, and to regulate the sale of land and its rights. It is also proposed to make changes to article 149 - 150.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u86	Conciliation of issues. Other proposals are made to authorize the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The project is in agreement with all ministries and departments, please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u87	Thank you, sit down, please. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mihajlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposes that the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea be given the right to establish and modify the target destination of land, to decide on land management, and to agree to the granting by the authorities and local authorities of land and forest, health, recreational, environmental and other conservation assignments within the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. At the committee meeting, members of the committee made a number of comments that needed to be decided in preparation for the second reading, namely: the amendments proposed by the bill to article 118 of the Ukrainian Code of Land are proposed to empower the Council of Ministers of Autonomy to decide on the privatization of the land of citizens, whereas the amendments to article 122 of the same Code do not provide for the granting of authority to the designated authority for the transfer of land for agricultural use, namely: for farming, for farming, for the conduct of private agriculture, for gardening. Furthermore, the proposed edition of article 118 of the Ukrainian Land Code makes it unclear which body will decide to privatize land — district government administrations or the Autonomous Council of Ministers. It should also be noted that the proposed amendments to article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land need to be clarified in the definition of specific authorities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea that will decide on the assignment of land to a given category. Amendments to article 35 of the Land Authority Act in the Czechin6th century of the assignment of land to one or another category of inventory material will lead to an uncontrollable process, a change in the target destination of land. Given the complex and long-term process of renegotiating any changes to the draft law, the members of the committee understand the need for urgent land settlement in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and liquidation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u89	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u90	The egregious facts of abuse and corruption have made a decision: recommending the adoption of this bill as a basis, asking the National Deputies to vote in the first reading and to send it to the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations for preparation for the second reading. The main scientific and expert office also recommends that the first reading of the project may be based on it. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u91	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this consideration. Katerina Vaschuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u92	Respectful colleagues, indeed, may not have a more painful subject on the Crimean Peninsula than the issue of land and land relations. And the fact that there's a kind of structure and an administrative vertical, and a system of councils, makes it very difficult to solve land disputes, land disputes, issues, it's such a flaw in the development of business, agriculture and in general land use control, conservation, and so that people at the end of the day know, clearly understand which body they need to address in order to address the pressing issues of land relations. The law, as the committee head has pointed out, and there are really a lot of misunderstandings, there are, there are changes to articles that, from the legislator's point of view, these changes are not legitimate, they violate the structure of the Earth Code. Therefore, the law must be voted for, but only in the first reading. And to the second reading work it not to make it worse, but to improve the control of land use and the change of destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u93	Black Sea, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u94	I join the previous speaker in saying that all innovations in the tightening of the land allocation regime usually end up being burdensome for legal land recipients and legal entrepreneurs. Until second reading, it would be desirable that the issues be addressed so that, once again, this would not be a problem for citizens, but for those who have obtained land illegally, the situation that exists today remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? Honourable National Deputies, I have put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve land administration in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[17:41:49]] For 232 Decision taken. The law was adopted as a basis. Dear National Deputies, all the questions that have been identified by the list for today, that is, the schedule for today, November 4, we have considered. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll start the meeting at 10 in the morning, so we'll be working in plenary mode.
