ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:24]] Cards were registered in the 411 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies: Kruk Yuri Borisovich, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich, King Oleg Anatoliyovich. [[Applause]] Please welcome our colleagues and wish them every success. I give you information, honourable national deputies, on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on June 1, 2010. Thirty-seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the discussion: 9 laws were passed, 1 bill was passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent for re-reading, 3 bills were returned to the committee for re-reading, 5 bills were rejected; 1 law was adopted in a new edition, 1 law was rejected, i.e. the veto was not overtaken. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine is to form part of the coalition of MPs “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call of Traduk Mikoli Fedorović. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the Ukrainian national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please make a record of the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Bodnar Olga Borissovna, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please. Sergei Sas instead of Olga Bodnar. Kravchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u2	Dear national MPs, honourable chairman, distinguished voters! I have been instructed to make a statement to the faction of the “Julia Timoshenko” on the events in Kharkiv around the so-called break-in of the highway through the Central Cultural Park and the rest of Gorkok's name. This matter became known to the whole of Ukraine because of the total contempt of the city’s authority for the opinion of its citizens. Without public discussion, without taking into account the social opinion, Kharkiv City authorities have placed hundreds of trees in the city’s center. Knowing the true opinion of the Harkians regarding the destruction of green plants, the authorities began to do so on a thief’s night. When the Harkowians realized what was going on, and they began to organize public resistance to this cemeteries: to exchange tents all the time, to hold the tablets, and to attract the attention of the media, the police started beating people. Several of the shareholders were arrested for allegedly violating public order and being transported to the militia’s raid unit, where they were treated as criminal criminals. Several persons were taken to a hospital with varying degrees of trauma. The task of storm groups was followed by fighters who were changed into the form of municipal workers. They provoked people to fight, they pushed them with technology, they fought activists, environmentalists, and several people were taken to hospitals. Only through the intervention of Ukrainian national deputies, district and city council members from opposition factions and the presence of journalists, I stress that the presence of journalists at the scene has prevented considerable bloodshed. In Kharkiv, it is clear that Dobkin and Kernes are simply ordering those who are going to build cottages along the road, hotel and entertainment complexes that have been predisposed eight acres [8 ha] of park area. Impunity only deepens lawlessness. The opposition in Kharkiv has already gone too far to exhaust itself. Under real threat to human health and life. Our faction calls on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure that the draft Law on Temporary Commissions on Second Reading is reviewed without delay. To the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, take urgent measures to stop the work in the city of conflict and to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens and to enforce the laws in the construction of the road through Gorkog Park in Kharkiv. As events continue today, we call on the Supreme Council to provide information to the minister of internal affairs, the head of the State Administration, Harkov Dobkin, and Kernes ’ responsibilities. In the event of the failure to take effective steps to ensure legality in the construction of the above-mentioned road, the Timoshenko Block will initiate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u4	The Yulia Timoshenko faction will initiate the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the social-resonance issue objectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u5	Vasil Kravchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. The next is Victor Terrence instead of John Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u6	Honorable national MPs, honourable voters, Victor Yanukovitch’s electoral program is dedicated to ensuring the implementation of the national restoration program of the Ukrainian village. In particular: timely payments of state grants, interest payments on loans, the creation of tax conditions for investing in rural areas, and a number of others. However, the word was broken. Ironically, the Ukrainian Economic and Social Development Act 2010 states that in the second quarter there should be a regulation on how to use the funds for the promotion of plant and animal production, and the State Budget for the tenth year does not provide for public support for animal and plant production. So what do we do? Nor does the State Budget provide for interest on loans to farmers. The financing of the APC is made from the State Budget General Fund, and from the special fund only partially, if implemented, at the end of the year. In the budget for the tenth year, 50.7 percent of the APC expenditure is planned from the special fund, while in the eighth year, 25 percent, in the crisis, nine percent. So what could be the stability fund for the APC that's been talked about so much lately? He's not in the swap. In fact, farmers in the tenth year are left alone, without State support, and survive who can. Preparations for harvesting, which will begin in a month, are done only at their own expense and, above all, at the expense of cutting cattle. Thus, as of May 1, as compared with last year, 95,000 heads, including 18,000 cows, were reduced by 18,000 cows, as far as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Dnipropetrovsky, and Mikolaiiv areas are now being cut out. At home, the head of the Hraelhouse was reduced by 5.5 thousand. As a result, meat production declined by 9.6 percent in four months, almost 5,000 tons. Worse still, the purchase prices for animal products continue to decline, market prices become even lower: one liter of milk in the individual sector is already worth 40 copies of bracelets, and MCS and pork meat — 9 and 11 bracelets per kilogram of living weight, which is 3 and 4 bracelets less than in February. What about the social sphere in the village? It seems that the government of Azarov was long ago in the rural area. The villagers are being misled. However, APK Minister Mikola Jurynuk stated that 1,000 dollars have been allocated for sugar beet subsidies and 480 million dollars are not provided for in the State Budget. Now it is clear that the date of the local elections is so fast approaching, until the villagers realized that neither they nor the problems in agriculture needed President Yanukovic nor the government of Azarov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u7	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Next up will be the Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u8	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Dear fellow citizens! On May 25, the Minister of Education, Tobacco, who was in Donetsk, said that the secondary education system expected serious reform, including a reduction in the number of schools in the rural area. Basil Sukhomlinsky, who, thanks to fate, had to study at the Pavlivsky School, said: “The school is the heart of the village. The heart will stop and the village will die.” I also quote Julia Timoshenko: “The Ukrainian village,” she says, is the cradle of all Ukrainian: languages, souls, Ukrainian mentality. And when the school closes, the village disappears in the sense that it is." End of quote. But that is what, the Ukrainian language and the Ukrainian soul, do not calm the Tobacco, and that is what, the Ukrainian language and the Ukrainian soul, it destroys, including by shutting down schools. The closure of rural schools, in addition to a spiritual paradise, will also bring a host of social problems to Ukraine. Well, please tell me, where are the village teachers going when they get thrown out on the street, how are schools closing down? Tell me, how can children get to a village or a school that has not yet been closed by tobacco, in the cold, in the cold, in the rain, when there are no school buses and can't be seen when they will be? How will this affect children’s health? How will this be reflected at the level of learning? And in the end, is it really such a huge amount of money going to these little rural schools that we have to shut them down, and we have to throw kids and teachers out on the street? Would it be better to reduce the number of deputy prime ministers and ministers in the government? Would it be better to cut back on the cost of retaining a beloved president? Could it be that much pain to the Smoker, so he's already fighting for them, so he's already poor and alone! No, not our poor minister of education. And the official information that rural teachers need to know. Please, the government courier publishes the declaration of Mr. Tobacco, Minister of Education. Thus, the income of the previous year is 831,000 dollars, and the bank accounts and other establishments in Tobacco have 4 million,542,000 dollars, and family members have another 1 million, 471,000. I ask, how many rural schools could it not have closed but work for these modest acquisitions of an education minister? But Janukovic will never take off the Tobacco. He will never shoot the Tobacco, because it is the Tobacco that destroys the language, destroys the Ukrainian culture, that he wants to make the Ukrainian electorate Yanukovic. And so to ensure that Tobacco is not the Minister of Education, so that the Minister of Education doesn't destroy our education, it's only a community, all education, students, teachers, all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u9	The Oliynik People's Deputy is transferring the right to speak to Oleni Shustik from the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Prepare Shishkini.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u10	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, respected presiding officers! Ukrainian society with the coming to power of the Yanukovich team faced a real threat to the loss of the main plot of democracy — justice. It is not just a political dispute over judges. The region’s party is destroying the state’s legal foundations at a rapid pace. Before long, citizens will be deprived of the opportunity to defend their rights in an independent and fair court. Ukraine is facing a full legal anarchy and a riot of lawlessness. The Supreme Council of Justice has already turned from the constitutional body into an engaged penal institution for severe executions, empowered to pass ulterior sentences, to require copies of cases that have not yet been completed in court. From now on, regions can immediately release any judge who refuses to comply with their orders. That is why the quorum in the Supreme Council of Justice was reduced when it made decisions. By usurping the High Council of Justice, the Justice Committee, the Parliament, the authorities run their own blitzkrieg, and justice will become just lakay. It was only yesterday that a draft law on the judiciary and the status of judges was introduced into Parliament. Today, it is in order for inclusion. I have no doubt that today he will be voted by the committee, and tomorrow he will be supported by a session room in a person so-called most of them. This is despite the fact that the draft contradicts all decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concerning the appointment of judges to administrative offices and the formation of higher courts, as well as the Constitution, other laws of Ukraine. Appointing judges' heads, by the way, to appoint and release judges themselves will be all the same to the Supreme Council of Justice. The circle's closed. The Supreme Court of Ukraine after the creation of another higher court on civil and criminal matters, which, by the way, contradicts the programme that the Party of the Regions of Ukraine, and also the recommendations of the Venice Commission, will no longer be able to exercise its justice. The authors of the constitutional coup are pursuing the sole goal of establishing full control of the courts, building a court vertical that will allow for the unhindered sanctification of any illegal acts and decisions of the new authorities. For unruly judges in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Inquisition will act. And it's not called reform, it's called privatization of the judiciary and strengthening of judges. Today, justice has proved to be the greatest threat in years of independence. Janukovic’s team cynically wipes the legs of Ukrainian laws, the Constitution, and European standards of justice. Abuse brought about by new laws will have disastrous consequences for the entire legal system. A destructive cat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u12	The destructive cat feeds the courts, including all Ukrainians. Because of regional treacherous self - rule, the rule of law is being undermined. And it's not a challenge to the judiciary, it's a challenge to all of society. Everyone has to realize that human rights lose their meaning if they are not able to protect them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u13	The People's Deputy Shishkin is transferring the right to speak to Andrija Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u14	Respectable compatriots! Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Respectable compatriots! Many have put faith in preelection promises and have expected a substantial increase in pensions and salaries. Presidential candidate Janukovic promised in January that the minimum pension would be 1,200 dollars and the average would be 2,000 dollars, i.e. an increase of 500-600 dollars. Let us see how it is in life, as the government of Azar listed the pension and wages. First, they counted, not November 1st, as the law requires, but January 1st, that is, they cheated on people for two months. Secondly, those pensioners who had a pension of less than 706 dollars added a few tens of dollars. Two million pensioners received only 3-4 bracelets, and four million 200,000 pensioners were so accounted for that they didn't get anything at all, the allowance was zero dollars and zero dollars! In gross violation of the Pay for Work Act, through manipulations with a single tariff network, the government of Azarov failed to deliver on Januković’s promise of a substantial increase in wages to 3.5 million budgeters. As of January 1, the first tariff rate rate was 567 dollars, and the minimum wage was 884 bracelets. The difference is 300 bucks. This 300 dollars, the government of Azarov does not pay the budget workers, and the teachers don't pay the doctors 500 or 600 dollars. Why are trade unions silent?Oh, my God! This is the right thing to do! It is they who must demand what is legally theirs. According to the State Budget Act, by the end of the year, the minimum pension will be increased by 39 dollars! And the minimum wage is only 53 bracelets! That's 5 percent and 6 percent respectively. At the same time, the budget approved the inflation rate of 13 percent. So the increase in pensions and salaries under Yanukovic's rule this year will be twice as much as the increase in consumer prices. That is the improvement of life today! Ladies and gentlemen, note how cynically the Party of Regions continues not to vote in favour of social laws! Not for the support of the Chernobyls. And they didn't support single mothers yesterday. And 100 days of Janukovich's power is 100 days of violation of the Constitution, failure to fulfill promises, complete lies and social deception!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u15	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next one's gonna be Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u16	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The issue of housing and utility tariffs is not only economic or financial but also political. So today’s authorities try to manipulate this issue. And right after the announcement of the July 1st increase in Kiev's housing and utility tariffs, a statement was made by the Party of the Regions that they would not allow such an increase. I ask the question: Who would benefit from such an increase in Kiev? Chianam? No, it's not. Even utilities that still work on the remains of a large pie are not comfortable. And it is convenient that only Kyivenergoholding, which is run in Kiev by the Party of the Regions, is not the first year. And the brilliant representative of this party, Vasil Hmelnicki, is actually the owner of this company, along with Andri John, who also represents this political power. So I ask: Why, by this time, is Kiev the only city in Ukraine where people are counted, not by cubic meters of hot water consumed, but by gigacalories. It's said that the gigacalorie is only 18 meters warmed up, and in fact, according to the Institute of Housing and Utilities, it's 21.5 meters warmed up. Each person is robbed of about 20 percent of gigacalories. The second question. Why do almost 18 percent of the losses in Kiev from producer to consumer lie on the shoulders of citizens and are included in tariffs? Because this company, which is a member of the Party of the Regions, is profiting from this by being offshore in Cyprus. [[Sarava Company]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that the decision of the government of Yulia Timoshenko foresees the provision of 34 housing services. [[No.560]] Some of them were never paid, and money is collected. In particular, cleaning of the yard toilets in Kiev, destinization, disinfection, and disinfection that never takes place, is a source of money. This decision requires that each citizen consent to the provision of a service, and that the list of services is on the way to each house. It's not there. Why do such services not agree with people? Because it's governed by a party that's used to taking advantage of people. And finally, I'd like to ask you a question, and where is the cheap gas from Yanukovich? Where is the gas that should lower tariffs? He'll be gone and gone! Because Ukraine receives more than 20 billion gas. And the LHK consumes only 18 with a spare. So I'd like to ask you, where are the Sufrich wells, how does Mr. Boyko, who also owns many things in Ukraine through intermediaries? So I'm stressing again for the Chinese and for the Ukrainians. There will be no lowering of tariffs. No cheap gas from Yanukovich will come here. They just built the fleet, gave up the Crimea. And there'll be a lot more going on without any compensators. Because that wasn't the point. There was a goal to lie down, excuse me, under that neighbor who was more powerful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u17	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Grigory Kaletnik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u18	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Local authorities, health officials in the Poltavian region, have expressed serious concerns about the immunoprotection of the child’s population. This was the same concern expressed by members of the Ukrainian Compatriots, who worked with voters in Lviv, Ivano-Frankish and a number of other areas of the medical sector in these regions last week. The remaining vaccines for the first year of life against coughing, diphtheria, and the leftovers of last year are virtually exhausted. A similar situation was the vaccination of children against polio, measles, parotis, and rubella. This poses a threat to the carrying out of child’s vaccinations against infections that are controlled by immunoprophylactics and contribute to epidemic health problems. On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I propose to the Ministry of Health, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to immediately search out opportunities and help health facilities in the Poltavian region and throughout the country to provide oral polio vaccine, complex vaccines against diphtheria, cough, gum, bark, parotis, and rubella. This will enable us to prevent the outbreak of these infectious diseases and to protect our children from disease. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u19	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please invite you to the presentation. Gasuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, broadcasters! The development of education in any country largely determines not only the level of intellectual capacity building, but also creates the conditions for scientific, technological and socio-economic progress. Education, therefore, as a means of identifying the guidelines for reforming economic and other areas of activity, should be of a pre-emptive nature. The implementation of the strategic orientations of agrarian policies aimed at profoundly reforming agriculture on the grounds of private ownership of land and property, increasing production volumes of competitive production, creating conditions for free choice of types of productive activities largely depends on the level of training of agro-industrial professionals and requires a new approach to rural human resources. Today we have 23 higher education institutions III and IV levels of accreditation and 118 – I and II levels. I'm going to point out that the sectoral subordination of the Minagrarian Policy is 10 percent of the total number of level III, IV and 19th to I, II. This means that agrarian education takes up almost 30 percent of Ukraine’s education and goes second to the Soviet Ministry. The student population is just over 250,000, of which almost 80 percent are rural youth. The question is, “Is that a lot or not? ” Throughout the known direction of preparation, “agronomy” averaged 2,000,800 people per year over the course of 3 years, or 0.7 per 10,000 hectares per person. Veterinarians have been prepared for 3,000 conditional headheads in the last three years by one expert. Scientific research is an integral part of agricultural higher education. For this purpose, scientific research institutes and problem laboratories function in the structure of higher education institutions, creating almost 800 pulpits on production, consulting services. Today, domestic, educational and scientific institutions face the challenge of finding a compromise balance between stimulating agriculture through fiscal support measures and its impact and dependence on the social development of the village. The high potential of agrarian education and science can solve the current problems of the agro-industry complex and the training of specialists with higher education according to world standards. Therefore, given the above, I would like to point out that such an important direction as agrarian education and science is an overemphasis on the development of education and science in Ukraine. And given that our country is agrarian, I would like to make an offer to recognize agrarian education as a priority for the development of education in Ukraine and to place responsibility on the Ministry of Agricultural Policy in Ukraine for the development of this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u21	Thank you. The National Deputy Hassuk is transferring the right to speak to Yuri Serbin, the faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block". Jaroslav Kenzier will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! The government's agenda was one of the main issues: raising the level of housing for our citizens. What is the situation now? Let's look at the statistics. Statistics show that growth in the first quarter is 21 percent. But if we analyze this figure, it turns out quite different that this increase was mainly due to the introduction of one-bedroom buildings. Why did they start to build? They didn't start to build. Just last November, the government of Timoshenko decided to legitimize illegal construction, construction, and construction. This is what went up in the first quarter, because people started to legitimize this illegal construction. And the real state of affairs is that the introduction of housing in the first quarter dropped by almost 40 percent. And what we're doing right now is we're going to lead to two years from now, the cost of all housing is going to increase and it's going to be the same as it was three years ago at a construction site. For still people are born, praise be to God, for still families are growing and the need for housing is great. Because we have 20 square meters per person, and Germany has over 45 meters per person. What must we finally do in order to move affordable housing or housing altogether from a dead point of view? We say, and it's wise that a person should be able to buy this apartment. But what do we do now? The housing is rising again because no one controls the price of the same metal, and without this metal, no housing can be built. During the crisis, the cost of metal, tons of metal, was 4-4.5 thousand, now 7.5 thousand. What's gotten bigger? The gas is said to have not increased in price, so what has increased? Then why do we say we're going to build if we have no control over prices? And even if housing is built, it will not be able to buy our people. That's the first question. And unfortunately, I was at the Prime Minister's meeting, unfortunately, this question was not even raised and no decision was taken. The second question is, What does a person need? You need a real loan, or a real mortgage. Under the government of Timoshenko, the president and the National Bank refused to allow this to happen. Now both the National Bank and the President and the Prime Minister are working on a team. What now prevents real refinancing for government banks, and now five for our people to reduce credit to 12-14 percent? Yes, there is no simple desire to solve these problems. And these problems accumulate over and over again. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u24	affordable housing. But we know from Kiev's experience, somewhere around here is San Sánich Omelchenko, if he introduced the 50-50 program, people with guarantees that the budget would pay them back that 50-percent had their own money. So if we take two years of budget planning, we can increase by at least 2 billion housing and the same business, because without that, we're just going to raise prices, and our people are going to run out of housing again. There's no time, but that's the main thing. The government doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u26	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” The Party “For Ukraine!” requires the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Public Prosecutions to investigate rapidly and objectively the death in Shevchenkov district of Kiev student Igor Indil. The cause of his death is known to have been numerous cranial injuries sustained in the police department. The circumstances of the incident, the nature of the trauma, the prolonged concealment by police officers of the death of the deceased, attempts at pressure on witnesses, conflicting statements after the tragedy, four ineffectual emergency calls, and finally, a strange statement by the police about the death of a student by repeated downfalls and blows to the head may have the only logical explanation: the detained person was killed as a result of the police's criminal actions. Can the response of law enforcement agencies be considered adequate? We don't think so. The fact that yesterday, June 1, hundreds of people gathered under the Shevchenkov Police Department and in most areas of Ukraine have undergone solidarity actions requiring the punishment of murderers shows that Ukrainians do not agree to be silent victims. But in many cities, the police pressured the organizers of these peaceful actions to tear them apart. And we can't help but worry about this circle message. So a separate subject of investigation is to try to hide both the fact of the death of the detained and the real cause of the death, as well as the attempts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to intervene in the conduct of peaceful public actions that required the punishment of the employees of this department. The Party “For Ukraine!” is convinced that the death of a person in the militia department as a result of cranial trauma and subsequent attempts by the militia authorities to build up police officers whose actions led to the tragedy requires at least immediate resignation of the Chief of Staff in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. If even after the arrest of Pukac and Lozinski supporters, the militia continues to kill people, that means they still believe in their impunity. The Party “For Ukraine!” insists that the Supreme Council keep the matter under constant control and today establish a temporary commission of inquiry for this purpose. Because the deaths of people in various police departments throughout Ukraine are not unique. It is thanks only to journalists from the 1+1 channel and now to all other media that this tragedy has become known to Ukraine and Ukraine. So we have to give this tragedy a proper assessment so that it doesn't repeat itself in any militia raids all over the country and that innocent people don't die in these shades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! The statement has been completed. Regarding the suggestions made in the talks of the Ukrainian national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, addresses, and assignments. In connection with the last speech related to the death of a student in the Shevchenkov Paradise Department or the administration of the police. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as you know, respected colleagues, listened to information from the Chief of the Department of Interior in Kiev, Alexia Crikuna. And apparently the national MPs present will agree that he was open to dialogue and communication and stated that setting the truth in this matter is a matter of honor both to him as the leader of the militia and as a father, in order to warn something similar in the future. And we agreed that the course of the investigation of this case by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the person of the relevant committees would be kept under constant control. If necessary, we will return to the matter. Dear National Deputies! Let us turn to the questions identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u28	Schedules for today. If there is a need, dear colleagues, from the factions about the organization of our work today, please, one person at a time. Please, Roman Zvarich. Who will speak from the future? Please, one minute. Mikhailo Chechetov, we see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Part three, the last sentence of part three of article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules states: “On the day of the plenary meetings, Wednesday there shall be time for consideration of the issues prepared and proposed by the Parliamentary Opposition established by this Rules.” Today, the agenda given to us is the question put by the President of Ukraine at number 6,450 in particular. This is about the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges. I think we should have a very big fantasy and imagine that the President is in opposition, even though after he signed the Kharkiv Accords, you may have meant that the President is opposed to the Ukrainian state. But first of all, I would like to point out that this is the exclusive right of opposition factions. That's why I'd ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand that discussions or statements from factions with different socio-resonance issues have somehow exacerbated the situation in the room. We are now at the normal pace of work. As yesterday, when both the left and right parts of the hall together showed that more than 300 deputies were willing to vote and vote normally, discussing the bills that had been put into the room. I want to say that the bills passed by the opposition are the first to stand, and we will consider them. But until 2 o'clock, there's still a luft of time. Therefore, in this situation, the President, as Head of State, has the right to introduce a bill and to request that it be considered extraordinary. We will include it on the agenda today, we will not, and other issues on the agenda, up to 2 hours, we will be able to consider if we work productively, as we did yesterday. I call for normal productive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u32	Thank you. There are no other warnings? I can't see. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u33	Sobolev, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", party "Reforms and Orders". I would like to support colleagues from "Our Ukraine" because this is an exclusive list of issues that are determined by opposition. The opposition for today is defined. It's two factions: the Yulia Tymoshenko Block and our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. We have offered the order of the day that there is today. Moreover, a number of issues were not included, since it is clear that they will not be able to consider them directly, and we will not be able to attend this plenary meeting on Wednesday. That's why we have a request. There will be a day tomorrow when all matters related to the judicial system are traditionally considered, please take this matter to heart. Moreover, it was not considered on the Conciliation Council. We only got the papers this morning, this is a multifaceted edition. Therefore, the request that the matter be considered in the order of the day tomorrow, as required by the Rules. Today, we could consider all the questions that are directly in order of the day. And integration into the agenda can take place tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's get to work. Let me just respond to the suggestions that have just been made. I'd ask my respectable colleagues not to ask, but I'd beg you not to look for a cause for ruin. Then let's, if we follow this approach, there'll be opposition coming to work on Wednesday, and all the other days there'll be a coalition coming to work. And so let's say, your honors, let's take a look at the schedule of our work, and you'll see the authorship of the bill over the week. Then let's do the proper cleaning. That doesn't match the parliamentary tradition, it doesn't match the parliamentary practice. Secondly, there's no reference to anything special in the Rules. So if you find that word, I'll bow to you low. And secondly, the honourable colleagues, instead of taking the time to find out the relationship, I think we'd already consider the inclusion in the agenda of all the bills that were defined, and we'd look at all the other bills. So I would ask you not to look for reasons to resist, and we will have many other reasons to do so. Let us move on to practical work. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (on the development of entrepreneurship). Registration number 6233. The author is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Natala Královska. I am voting on the proposal to include 6233 in the agenda. Please vote. But we only include, not consider, but include. Please vote. [[10:43:17]] For 185 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials for hindering entrepreneurial activities. Please vote. [[10:43:52]] For 169 Anatoly Matvienko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u35	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing you as a coalition representative, I am addressing the coalition, the Party of the Regions as the largest faction of this coalition. Well, if we respect democracy, I understand you may not support the law, but if we're spending Wednesday on opposition bills, we have the right to present our bills, to argue them, eventually people have to hear what the opposition is proposing. You may object, you may not support, but simply ignore the inclusion in the agenda, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is absurd, it is not democracy, it is some “occupation” of the coalition in relation to the right of opposition. What's more, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if these bills are agreed upon on the Conciliation Council, we include them and we don't discuss them, we're starting another procedure now. If possible, it would obviously be useful to review the possibility of the opposition discussing on Wednesday the bills it is introducing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to our colleague's suggestions and support inclusion in the agenda, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be determined whether to make a positive decision on the outcome of the discussion or not. I'd like to take this into account so that we can have a normal compromise job. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to reduce the number of economic activities subject to licensing and the number of control bodies. Registration number 6351. Please vote. [[10:46:00]] For 172 The decision is not taken. What are you offering me?Oh, my God! To convince me to leave, to worship every MP? I run the Supreme Council, not the faction. You vote first. Yes, calm down. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 117. From, 117! Where are your other people? "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 53, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 1. Look, first of all, you don't vote. Who do you blame? Calm down. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! I'm primarily addressing the majority who are so conscientiously experiencing and hurting for what most of us and your President look like in Europe today. I want to remind you, maybe you don't know that there are now reports in Ukraine from the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And what we're going to report today is that, in fact, the opposition is blocked not only on the air and wherever it is, but in the parliamentary room, that you're not simply allowing the opposition to put bills into discussion. We call on you once again to actually be constructive and not to do, you know, for the external vector of the phrase that we have democracy here. And for the inner self, it's actually totally ignoring the rights of opposition. Please speak again to the Party's sanity and to Vladimir Litvin himself. Please contact your faction to support the vote of the opposition on the day-to-day order of our laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u38	Thank you. I'm addressing everyone again, and I'm asking, honourable colleagues, the issue of inclusion in the agenda is a technical question, everyone will make a decision in the process, let's look for compromise. Please, John Kirilenko, and we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I do not know what happened in the hall and what happened after the Conciliation Council on Monday, which could have happened in the middle of the night. Yesterday the Supreme Council demonstrated its unique ability to work constructively. Dozens of bills are under consideration, the absolute majority adopted by more than 300 votes is not the author, the government or the author, the opposition or the author, the coalition. They're for the development of the state. What happened today? Look at the bill in the agenda. We understand that there may be a variety of votes on it, and we realize that there is something unpopular. But not to be included in the agenda, why did we then come to the hall today? Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have two signatures, we call for a break and a Conciliation Council of faction leaders to find out what happened that night. We ask you to take a break right now, and we'll put you on the table, and we'll find out what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u40	Alla Alexandrovska. Finally, a discussion of the question and an announcement break. The signatures just came in, and I totally agree with you here. Alla Alexandrovska, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u41	Alla Alexandrovskaya, Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, you rightly say that this rule is purely technical, and we are guided by very pragmatic motives and do not need to be accused of any political approach, that we do not wish to consider your drafts. Well, for example, our faction did not support the inclusion of a bill on the agenda, namely the amendment of the Local Government Act. [[No. 6233]] That is why, I think, we are doing the right thing, not even on the agenda, so as not to waste our time completely on empty conversations. The bill proposes to include a rule in which local councils should be guided by initiatives, proposals by business actors. Well, for example, today we've heard what's going on in Kharkiv on logging. Imagine rich people coming to the city council and demanding certain decisions that will certainly benefit them. We've already built a golf club. Whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u42	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u43	Do you understand? That is why I want to turn to those who are introducing such bills. You lobby for rich people's interests. And you don't have to put a shadow on your knitting. We Communists will never support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u44	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, and we will continue to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u45	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you. This is John Kirilenko, head of the “BUT” faction. So, Ivan Grigorovich, why do you want to take a break from the faction that your members don't vote? 117 on board. All the votes in your order of the day, 44 members of the “BUT” do not vote. Why find out if you are on a break? Find out after working with your members. What claim do you have for other national deputies? We're going to vote, I think, a faction of the Party of the Regions when you, on your proposal to the only MP, vote first. Then we will support you, but if you make a proposal and do not vote, please tell us what logic it is to support you if you do not support yourself. I think it's a shame, that kind of position and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u46	Yes, the factions exchanged their thoughts. I now continue to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Tax Holidays for Small Business Act. [[Registration number 6354]] Please vote. [[10:52:23]] For 181 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 127, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 53, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 1, non-fractional – 1. Please, on the grounds of the vote, I see, on the grounds of the vote, Oleg Lazko. Then Arsenius Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u47	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm with a colleague who said they would vote when we vote. It was just in favour of the Bill on Tax Breaks for Small Business that the faction "Bloka Timoshenko" voted 137 people – in full stock. Other non-voting members have moved on to your coalition. Why don't you vote? But actually, it's cassuitism, which is. who vote there, who doesn't vote. Small business needs to know, in principle, that the parent coalition does not support, has refused President Yanukovic's promise to start a holiday for this small and medium-sized business. That's true. And to think that we don't vote because someone in your country has voted, that's all Casualism, and people are interested in specific things. And the only thing we can do for people is to help them. In this case, make life easier for the business community where we're all parasitic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u48	Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, of course, what is happening in the Hall of Non-Inclusion in the Order of the Day Documents and the Bills of Opposition is not inherent in democratic society. But I would now like to stop at a bill that envisions a 20 per cent reduction in the expenditure of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This year these expenses are higher than in 2009. The world is suffering from a further economic crisis, and Greece, for example, has cut its public sector spending by 20 percent. If it was declared yesterday that Ukraine was on its way to the European Union, I would first advise the pro-government coalition to cut costs on its own. And the last. Not voting for the bill in the agenda is anything other than failure to execute for the faction of the President's Order Party and President's commission, issued two months ago. [[President Yanukovic's decree already]] [[President Yanukovic's mission already]] That's why I'm addressing you, cutting costs, and saving the country's financial system. Expenses on yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u50	Mountain. One minute! Mountain. They've already come out of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! What is the best thing to do with our opposition? It is to betray absolute lies for absolute truth, to manipulate people's minds, to elevate pseudologologists, to build people's masses, to fabricate facts and concepts. Small Business, Holidays. How did the opposition of the U.S.B.T.T., which was the authority, usually work? You'll remember those laws that were passed and canceled in a week because those pseudo-laws were ripped out of context. What am I trying to say? The reform committee chaired by President Yankovic is meeting today, a reform programme will be announced and a bill will be submitted under each item. And there is a bill on a simplified tax system and vacations for a small business that will be announced today to the Supreme Council. And that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u52	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the vote that takes place again and again shows how helpful it is sometimes for members of parliament to switch places. Because some of those who talk about the rights of opposition today have a little bit forgotten how they behaved a little earlier, that's the first time. The second thesis, let's look at those bills that aren't included in the agenda, they solve the problems of the few protected groups? Do they resolve the issues of those who are the most disadvantaged today? I am today, apart from representing the Communist faction, representing the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I didn't see those questions. And third, you know, when they talk about love of opposition, today they propose to include questions in the debate, and tomorrow they will oblige most of the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the bills just because they are put up by opposition in order to demonstrate love for opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u54	They've already come out of factions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and listen to what Peter Stepanovich Cibenko said. Because let's remember what was the blocking of each other on the adoption of the Law on State Social Standards. And let's get rid of this practice, let's say the arguments. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then the opposition blocked, now you're blocking. What difference does it make? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, let's finish our consideration of inclusion in the agenda and announce a recess. We made a deal with you. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[Registration number 6389]] [[10:58:29]] For-183 The decision is not supported. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Take it off the vote. For the reasons of Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u55	Thank you, Fräulein Timoshenko, Reform and Order. Dear colleagues, I understand that it is possible not to support some kind of bill, demanding that it protect our employees socially. But I'm sorry, well, how can you not support the bills that concern millions of our citizens who have been thrown to work in the market in a small business? That is why the bills that have been tabled in Parliament today, namely, to support those who have created jobs themselves, do not go anywhere to seek employment or unemployment. And in these circumstances, in fact, the ruling coalition is doing its best not to even start looking at such bills. Promises that they will ever be made, we have heard these promises for a hundred days. That's why the request, the bill of the last Jacinyuk, is why the three bills that have been tabled by our faction are once again put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, please. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear national MPs, our constituents! Everyone today has been given a pound and a pound of one law, and I'm talking about the weight, the Courtship Act. Please look at the healthy font, please look at the paper: all the back pages are free. And that's in a country that's suffering from a crisis. So this bill, which Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk has just introduced, foresees a reduction in spending on everything, including that nonsense. Because it's 450, it's a ton of paper, you could save now 750 kilograms. This is the annual need for circuit schools, rural circuit schools. What do you eat, where do you eat?Oh, my God! Where are you going to do such pompous actions in the Palace of Ukraine tomorrow? That's all to be reckoned with. What accounts? The president of the United States is speaking on a scale, saving money.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u58	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to calm down. See why we voted yesterday. Yes, because the proposals from the opposition were indeed aimed, not at obtaining political dividends, but at the benefit of the country. Let me give you an example. Today, on the faction's council, we considered three Bills of Andrei Parubai, and I, by the way, treated him with the utmost respect as a human being. And we looked at these, it would seem, drafts had to be cut off in one name. We've looked at it professionally. Yes, we will not vote on one bill, and we will support 2 Bills of Andrei Parubia. They benefit both the people and the country. Therefore, any legislation aimed at improving the economy, raising social standards, and strengthening Ukrainian statehood, we support. But where there will be an attempt to obtain political dividends at the state expense, these bills will certainly not be supported. What we see today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. Registration number 6450. Please vote. [[11:02:41]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 168, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 14, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 7, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 4. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of 2 factions: the factions of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense, I announce a 30-minute recess to hold consultations, as well as a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Break until 11 o'clock, 35 minutes. Faction leaders, I stress, the faction leaders please gather in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. As you know, at the request of two factions, a 30 - minute recess was announced for consultation. I'd like to ask the initiators to make a statement. Ivan Grigorovich, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, who will speak? Ivan Kirilenko, please. Turn on John Kirilenko. Yes, microphone, please turn it on. It's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u62	No microphone on. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As we met at the Conciliation Council of factions on behalf of the opposition, we focused on the issues that the Rules require today in the session room. Once again, Wednesday's order is formed at the suggestion of the opposition forces. In an official letter to the Governing Council, before the Conciliation Council meeting on Monday, we addressed exactly the questions that the Supreme Council had just voted in favour of joining the agenda. That's what I'm stressing, that's the question. Not the ones that are still standing are the MPs, but the ones that we're offering. Sadly, we were not supported by our colleagues. And once again, I'm going to raise the question that inclusion in the agenda is not an urgent consideration. Put it in the agenda, then look at the committee issues, then look at it in session mode. Alternatives will be introduced in 14 days either to the government or to the coalition, and they will also be considered. And what decision the Supreme Council will make is the decision of the Supreme Council. There's both the first and the second reading. Perhaps some suggestions will be taken into account, both on the one hand and on the other. You didn't support inclusion in the agenda today. You know perfectly well that you have 250 votes. There are no votes in the second part of the room. We don't come to the hall for decoration either. So last day, he showed that half of the coalition bills, half of the coalition deputies, half of the government, half of them from the opposition MPs. 37 out of 40 considered and in absolute majority made effective decisions. We realized that some questions had not been asked yesterday, and you gently moved them to a second reading. We saw it, too. There were three resonative laws that, if they hadn't even been included in the agenda, wouldn't have been considered, would have caused a huge disturbance, but they were considered. So you didn't leave the box for criticism, you didn't leave the field for indignation. Why was this field created today? I'm talking to my coalition colleagues. We ask that we return to the questions that we have asked to include in the agenda and to vote positively. When they are discussed -- next week, tomorrow or Friday -- it's already the committee's decision to consider these issues, but to put them into the agenda, we ask you to support it. Some colleagues accused us of not being social. Three weeks ago, social bills were introduced, and they had the same fate as before. And in the last five weeks, no offer for a Wednesday made by the opposition and the opposition government is supported by inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, it's not democratic. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and once again, according to the decision of the Conciliation Board, we ask the colleagues once again to vote positively for inclusion in the agenda. Rather than consider the inclusion in the order of the day of these matters, which are the first five that stand in your possession on the front page of the agenda today. Please return and vote for inclusion in the agenda. As soon as the hall sees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u63	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u64	I apologize for how the Hall will already address this question, what will be the fate of these laws -- that is the second question. Now we're asking you to turn it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I inform you that the meeting of the Conciliation Council has virtually ended without result because the proposal from two factions - "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" and the BUT faction - is for the coalition to vote for the bills that are proposed from opposition to inclusion in the agenda. On the side of the opposition. There was another proposal from the coalition, and that we continue to work on other bills, 14 of which are proposed by the opposition, and a lot of them are supported by the coalition. So the solution is going to be generally positive. So, despite my suggestions to reconcile the parties and to find a compromise solution for us to work together on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, there was no adequate support. So I will now put to the vote the proposal I made on the Conciliation Council: to go back to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the Bills 6233, 6353, 6351, 6354, 6389, to go back to the consideration of these Bills. In case of positive support, we will consider each individual bill to be included in the agenda. If there is another proposal, I will put to the vote in a package if the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. Is the offer understood and accepted? I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of inclusion in the agenda: 6333, 6353, 6351, 6354, 6389. Please vote. [[11:44:01]] For-187 The factions. The decision is not taken. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 129, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 57, communists – zero, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – zero. The bill is being announced for the consideration of the bill of state marking at 750 years of the establishment of the city of Butach of Ternopil. Dear colleagues, we also have a draft decree to mark the 925th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lucca and a draft decree to mark the 700th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Covell. You could go for such an offer, honourable colleagues, to report on the three bills. The report will be made by the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, discuss them, and vote on each individual bill, and thus we will have a positive outcome. I am voting on the unification of these bills and on the consideration of them under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:45:20.]] For 263 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Stoick John, then Karpuk Vladimir. and Karpuk Volodymira for two bills. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm sorry it happened that our colleagues are leaving the hall. However, your opinion is on the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the designation at the state level of 750 years of the establishment of the city of Butach Ternopil. The purpose of this decision is to organize and carry out this action at the state level, as well as our task of creating an orgcommittee from the preparation and implementation of the measures in the Ternopil region, to develop and approve a plan of appropriate measures, to provide for the allocation of state funds, as well as funds from the local budget. A few words about the city of Butac, which is 750 years old. This is indeed a city that was founded in the 11th century, in the 1260s, the first mention, already in the 16th century, it was granted the right of Magdeburg. Today, there are 15,000 inhabitants in Buchachi, many monuments of national significance, as well as local ones. And, of course, this famous city also has a state-of-the-art significance. I'd like to say just a few -- this is the famous pumpkin town hall that's being reconstructed today. These are also defence castles, churches, churches, and the Basilian Fathers ’ Monastery. Dear colleagues, in the absence of time, I can no longer report on the substance of the decision, but I would like to say that today the decision has been passed through a committee of professionals headed by Vladimir Yavorowski, and I therefore hope that the decision will be supported by you. I wish we weren’t separated.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u68	Because it doesn't have any politics, it's a 750-year-old, round date. And I would like all the parties and blocks that are in our opposition and coalition hall to vote in favour. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u69	Thank you. Please have a seat. Vladimir Karpuk. Vladimir Georgievovich, on two bills, four minutes then. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u70	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, high-ranking national deputies! Your attention is on the two draft regulations. 4808 is the celebration of 925th anniversary of the founding of the city of Lutka and 4809, the 700th anniversary of the founding of the town of Kovel. The city of Lutsk is the district center of Volini. The first mention of him was in the Ipatius chronicle of 1085. Although the testimony of archaeologist historians suggests that this is one of the oldest cities in Ukraine, which is over 1,000 years old. In 1429 a full - time first assembly of European monarchs took place in Lutsk. In 1432, the city was already granted the right of Magdeburg. His history, architecture, and culture are linked to the influence of many monarchies, many nations. But the entire city of Lutsk remained a Ukrainian city. And so this is really one of the most outstanding cities in Volini and Ukraine as a whole, it is a bridge that connects Ukraine to Europe. The city of Covell was founded 700 years ago. As early as 1518, the city also had a Hungarian right. And a very, very famous page, of which few know, it was in the years of World War II. For the city of Coval, the fighting lasted 127 days and nights. This is really a heroic page that is described in many works, such as Kazakevich “Zora”, a work that has been awarded many literary awards. The aim and purpose of the project is to ensure adequate organisational, financial, material and information conditions for the implementation of a set of measures related to the preparation and celebration of the anniversary mentioned. The draft decree envisions preparation and marking at the state level of 925th anniversary of the city of Lucca, 700th anniversary of the city of Covella. To this end, it is proposed to set up appropriate organizational committees, develop and approve plans of action, allocate the necessary funds from government and local budgets, and ensure that the media publish the process of preparing and marking the Jubilee. Although the committee’s decision was to reject these bills, it was proposed that the list of memorable dates be listed before the general decree. but until this time this decree has not been adopted, so the request to accept these decrees as a basis and as a whole to make them. For there is little time left, that, indeed, such honorable Jubilee should be celebrated on a high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u71	Thank you, sit down, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski of the Committee, please, Vladimir Alexanderovich of the three bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u72	Respectable compatriots! Vladimir Yavorowski's House of Yulia Timoshenko, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Of course, it is ridiculous that today, in the sixth month of 2010, the higher body of legislation of the Ukrainian State has never been able to accept the entire list of significant dates for today. And that's why we're forced to print out some separate dates that we're going to have to bring to the Supreme Council, as it were, so that we don't miss any outstanding dates. That's exactly what we have today. Yesterday we were going to consider the celebration of the anniversary of the city of Tristan on the Sumestina, which is East Ukraine, to consider the 80th anniversary of the first cosmonaut-Ukrainen, not the first Ukrainian cosmonaut, as stated in this decree, because the first was actually another cosmonaut. But we didn't get to them. And today we are looking at three cities in Western Ukraine. This was the case with our Ukrainian history, of course, that civilization moved from the West to the South and the East. Because of those cities in Western Ukraine, they are more ancient, and this is perfectly natural. Many of them had Magdeburg law, and here they could count very much, that is, they had some colossal civilizational signs, they gave to Ukraine the South and the East. I would also like to remind you that there is another submission of the National Deputy of BUTU on the Ternopila town of Butcha. As a result, the committee clearly supports the marking of these cities. It's a small budget. A large part of it, of course, will be at the local level, but I think Ukraine should know that we have cities that are Ukrainian cities, that these cities are the bearers of colossal traditions. Because of this, I have no idea who can vote against these decisions. Because of this forward, national MPs, press the buttons, and everything will be fair!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss these bills? If there is, please sign in. People's deputies' names on the information board, please. Andrew Shevchenko, then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u74	I just want to briefly say that, of course, I will support all three decisions, and I urge my colleague to do the same. And you know, when we're often looking at decisions to mark memorial dates in the Supreme Council, they turn into a conveyor belt when we just vote and everything. I think it's important now, and in the future, to focus on those memorable dates that allow us to really focus on the very famous pages in history that allow us to talk about roots, about character, about traditions. And these three memorable dates that we're talking about, these three cities, they definitely fall into that category. I think all three decisions deserve unanimity support and I call for a "yes" vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u75	Vladimir Karpuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u76	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, we really don't need to politicize these things, we will vote in the 350th anniversary of the Tristan, and in the 80s of the first Ukrainian astronaut Pavel Ivanovich Popovic, and in the other Jubilee dates. We did not accept this decision. And I want to say that the encyclopaedic guide of Nobel Prize winners begins with the name Agman, who is the native of Butacach. And little do we know that many people who have received this highest prize in the world come from Ukrainian cities. So let's not politicize. And I want to pass on the word to John Mikhailovich Stoyk. [[One minute is]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u77	Ivan Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, we can talk a lot about politics, but today we must be united both by history and by these remarkable dates. Because really, butchach, speaking of this very city, had the right of Magdeburg. We don't have a lot of Nobel Prize winners in town, which my colleague here told me about. And I'd like us to really understand that these dates that we're going to have at the state level, they're going to be supported by local self-government, local government. And that's why I think today, really, we vote for those cities that are named here today to support, and it's the people who live and fall that will celebrate, especially in the Bachach 750. So thank you again in advance, everyone. And I want to say that our faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", and the Group "For Ukraine!" will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u79	National MP Mutz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u80	With regard to marking at the national level of the 750th Buchach – one of the hotspots of Ternopolish – there is no doubt that it will actually take place at the state level, because we now have responsible authority. Her responsibility is also confirmed by previous facts. I recall that on September 27, 2007, a solemn opening took place on a seven - mile [7 km] road along the national road around the city of Butac. The road was opened thanks to the positive work of the then government, led by the representative of the Party of the Regions, Viktor Janukovic, the current president. The funding was made from the budget. The total cost of construction is 60 million dollars. On this road, the center of Ternopilska was in great need. After all, several thousand cars, including trucks, passed through Butch every day. The intense movement of transportation has destroyed historical monuments, many of which in a city founded in the 13th century were destroyed. But a unique hall with the sculptures of the Penzel, a castle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u82	The castle of the 14th century, the monastery, the church, and the churches were given the chance not to be destroyed. We have a number of towns that have significant historical value in our area. And there are also many monuments of architecture, history, and culture that need to be preserved, and hence the allocation of funds from the budget. In general, the neglected former authorities of Ternopolska need attention from the authorities of the present. So to support the current bill, I call upon my faction members to preserve the historical heritage of my homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, having the honour of representing the Volin region, I would like to ask each of you, in fact, to support these two memorable dates in history and the district center, and the almost spare district center of the city of Covella equivalent to the Butach of the Ternopil region. The only thing I can say is that I am convinced that we will make the right decisions that will enable these decisions to be implemented, and I would like to say to my locals: “Dear Wolverines! Please take a picture of the session room. The political force, for two years that you are giving the largest number of votes in Ukraine, has ignored a completely simple, nonpolitical issue. Because they could go and leave the session room after considering issues that concern the area that, once again, gave the highest in the state in the last election. This is how this political power relates, this is what it promises you, and how it implements them." That's one thing. [[Applause]] And the second. It's a shame that Volina's representatives aren't all in the session room. I ask you to vote, I hope that there will be a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u85	A replica of who? Well, there isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to put to the vote a proposal for a draft Supreme Council decree to mark the 750th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Butac of Ternopil. [[5160]] I only ask the authors' agreement in the text to take the word “the nearness of its 750th anniversary”, simply “in relation to the 750th anniversary”. And with that precision, I'm voting on a draft decision for adoption as a decree on the determination at the state level of 750 years of the establishment of the city of Butach of Ternopil. Please vote. [[12:00:54]] For 304 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 165, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 26, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 62, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, now you have a proposal for a draft decree to mark the 925th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lutka Volinsk. I offer only, I address Vladimir Karpuk, I suggest, honourable colleagues, where it reads in the second chapter: “Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers”, which reads: “Preparation of orders”. Perhaps it is better to write, “take the right decision” and continue to follow the text. And in the second paragraph, “to take into account in the preparation of the State Budget for 2010 expenditure”, the words “to make changes for 2010 and to make appropriate funding in the 2011 budget”. That's what I'm talking about. Finally, “This decision takes effect from the time it is published”, add an appropriate paragraph. I'll take it from here. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I would like to ask you here where you correct the first paragraph: “to prepare the decision of the government”. Apparently, the Supreme Council made a decision. It says here: “Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” and two dots. So we have to write here, "Take steps to mark the 925th anniversary," because there's already the word "recommend," you know? Then he takes action. These measures, as he has already implemented, are there: orders, regulations, and so forth. By text, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u87	Yuri Anatoliyovich, there is the following point: “to develop and approve measures”. And I propose to write, "The Cabinet of Ministers make the right decision." As for, there, budgetary issues should also be clarified: “When amending the 2010 budget and adopting the 2011 State Budget, account should be taken of the need to mark the 925th anniversary of the city of Lutka”. And this decision takes effect from the moment it's published. With this in mind, I'm voting on the adoption of the draft decree as a decree to mark the 925th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lutka Volinsk. [[Registration number 4808]] Please vote. [[12:03:48]] For 303 The factions, please. Region Party - 161, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" - 32, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 59, communists - 27, "Litvina Block" - 20, non-fractional - 4. Now, dear colleagues, the draft decree marking the 700th anniversary of the founding of the city of Covella Volinsk district. [[Registration number 4809]] I propose similar clarifications to make a determination to this draft and to accept it as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[12:04:37]] For 310 I'll take the order. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, 303 votes have shown that 303 deputies, more than a constitutional majority, have joined East and West as this coalition. This is part of our Ukraine, we will always support the regions no matter what, in the East, in the South, in the West, because this is one Ukraine, we cannot share. And it's a shame that the faction that ripped the shirt on the chest spit in the soul of Ternopol, Volini and left the hall, they were against Ukraine's unity. But it is a pleasure that we have a constitutional majority, which is led by the President for East and West to be together. We're gonna win!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u89	Sergei Shevchuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u90	I want to talk to the radio people who've been listening to political Arlekin just now, I'd like to let you know what this is about. The point is that as of today, the leadership of the Supreme Council has practically introduced a new trend in Ukraine -- it is not just a ban on education, on freedom of speech, on the prohibition of discussion, on the legislative initiative of those who enter into opposition. This will now be done by means of the failure to get into the agenda of the opposition’s questions. This was done by the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko when it demonstrated that it had left the hall. I would like to say more that this practice will certainly be explained by international parliamentary organisations, particularly the OSCE. It's a violation of democracy. And you don't have to set up a clown here, talk about East and West together under the sole stench, that's east and west together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, regarding the charge of the Supreme Council. I'm offering a colleague not to sleep in the corners, but to work. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not determine the outcome of the vote. I'm organizing a job and I'm asking for compromise, and I'm calling for you, and I'd ask you to be more restrained and behave yourself decently towards the presidency. Do not show this political homage that is present to you. And calm down, run along the factions normally, now they're there, then you'll be sitting here. That I had introduced some new practice of banning lighting and so forth. In the Supreme Council, I do everything I can to make the Supreme Council the Supreme Council, and you look at it, please. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, respectable colleagues, regarding the break. We called it a break. So let's work, let's look at the question and get this work done. We've already had a break. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the granting of national status to a higher education institution and the appointment of managers]] [[Registration number 3328]] Who's going to slap the reporter, your esteemed colleagues? The reporter is on medication. From the committee, please. The chairman of the committee is Vladimir Ivanovich Polojolo. That's why I'm going to put the vote on the motion for withdrawal. Since Donny’s national deputy is ill, I will put to the vote a motion for the transposition of Bill 3328. Please vote. It's about transferring the bill. [[12:08:53]] For 264 We've postponed the bill. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Audit Service in Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Lazko. He is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich. Then, Kirilo Borisovich, please report. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider a bill with reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[12:09:40]] For 215 Decision taken. Kirilo Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u92	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! As far as this bill is concerned. First of all, I want to say that the main purpose of this bill is to restore the vertical, vertical authorities, restore the influence and control of the State Audit Service on the state budget, on the funds allocated by the state budget. This is really the bill that is needed today, because today the state has virtually no impact on the financial institutions in which budgetary resources are used. This bill was considered by the Budget Committee on February 19, 2009, and voted, and was proposed for adoption in the first reading. The purpose of the bill is to clarify the structure, the main tasks, the direction of activities, status, the subordination of the State Audit Service bodies, the listing of control bodies, the procedure for carrying out control measures and the implementation of their materials. What I'm saying. First of all, this bill introduces a rule that the Prime Minister proposes a candidate for the Head of the State Audit Service, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is really what it takes for a government manager, any government manager, to have control of the State Audit Service, and to have an understanding of how government finances are used. The fact that the bill today has a rule that does not have to agree on the appointment of the heads of audit services in the areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the capital of Ukraine is also true. Because it's the main audit authority that controls the use of government funds. It's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u94	The main purpose of this bill is to give access to the control and audit service to a sacred cow called the “bank secret”. And that really indignants many bankers, because we see that today, in the way that banks use government finances. And there must also be renewed control of the state. I believe that the adoption of this bill promotes discipline, promotes the use of public finances, helps to resolve many issues with the purposeless use of budgetary resources. I, despite the fact that today is the position of the Ministry of Finance, which disagrees, which believes that, for example, that the State Audit Service, which will not pay the state tax in the courts, will result in a lack of funds in the budget, does not correspond to reality, because in accordance with the Ukrainian Decree, the audit service no longer pays these costs. This is once again a challenge to the state, this is a challenge for all of us, so that we can use this lever as a control and audit service to address the uncontrolled spending of government budgets. I believe that a few of the issues in this law may be agreed on in a second reading. So I urge everyone to accept this bill. It doesn't matter, I'm saying who the head of government is, in fact, the importance of controlling government finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov and Yuri Karmazin Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill amends more than 15 bills. But the following must be noted. It needs a clearer definition of the proposed structure of the State Audit Service in the project. In particular, it is not entirely clear that there is a need to create inter-regional and unified audit departments and that there are no proposals for the creation of such offices in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. In our view, it is this law that should contain a clear structure of audit services, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will confirm their position on their activities. Article 4 does not specify which state authority will be subject to the General Audit Authority. Since the definition of a project under which the Central Audit Authority of Ukraine is the central authority of the executive authority, the activities of which are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the Ministry of Finance may be interpreted ambiguously, and so on. So on this basis, the faction of the Party of Regions is not proposing to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! What is being offered today. In my opinion, Kirilo Kulikov was extremely persuasive in that part of what he said was that whatever authority did not change, and the control and control should exist. And the government's spending must be controlled. And so far, this is what the House of Accounts is doing, which I've turned to, which hasn't given us an answer yet. And how did the budget come to be, how did it happen, that in the budget of the masses of things that are at stake, in the Law on State Budget? Why didn't they make it and report to the President at the right time on the nonsense written in this law? I think that the fact that the Chief Audit Authority is now in charge, as stated in the law, in Article 5, the Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine, is good. But the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance also needs to be monitored. So the right proposal is in today's draft law, where the question is that the Chief Auditorate of Ukraine is headed by the Head, who is appointed to the post, is released by the Cabinet of Ministers for submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And it's obviously supposed to control what happens in the Department of Finance or in other departments run or controlled by the Ministry of Finance. There are huge problems at the customs office right now. There are huge tax problems now. And you also need to look around at the KRA's employees on these issues. I would like to point out that this bill deals with the establishment of a system of territorial bodies of the General Audit Authority, specifically, on the system and on the system. That's why I'm going to support this bill, and I'd like to ask the coalition to react differently today. Are you interested in stealing? Obviously not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u99	Thank you! Dear colleagues who still insist on speaking from those who do. Please, a replica of Kirilu Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u100	Thank you very much. I want to say that I don't quite understand, I'm a member of the opposition, not of the coalition, and I demand to give more rights to the Prime Minister, who is promoted by the coalition. I demand that it have a real impact on government finances when it controls the State Audit Service, when it will work as a time, and help, answer what is really going on with government finances today. Guys, I don't get it at all, so maybe I'm confusing something. I, the opposition, support the Prime Minister, promoted by a coalition, an official coalition. So I'm addressing you, colleagues, think again and vote in favour of this law, it's necessary today to adjust the use of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u101	Yes, please, Peter Petrovich Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the government does not support this bill because it will destroy the system that works today. KRU works at the Ministry of Finance, and I understand that he was preparing this bill when it was necessary for the Ministry of Finance to get out of control and audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. So I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Audit Service Act in Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:19:57]] For-31 The decision is not taken. One faction voted “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” and I. I'm betting on a second motion for re-reading the draft law, registration number 2359. [[12:20:31]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act is being announced for consideration. [[on strengthening accountability for infringements of consumer rights]] The reporter is the National Deputy of Ukraine Socko Alexander Alexandrovich. Coroner is the head of the Economic Policy Committee's subcommittee, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich. Is there a reporter and a co-reporter? Dear colleagues, then I am putting to the vote this proposal: to postpone the bill. If this proposal is not supported, then we will consider it. I am voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft Consumer Rights Act. [[on strengthening accountability for infringements of consumer rights]] [[12:21:47]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Please report. From the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 20 May 2009 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Socko. [[on strengthening accountability for infringements of consumer rights]] [[register 4059]] The practice of dealing with conflict situations shows that operators are violating consumer rights because of extremely low penalties. That is, the law does not carry out effective prevention tasks, so there is a need to increase the responsibility of consumers for violating the rights of sellers of goods and services through the imposition of more severe sanctions, as well as by informing the public about the unscrupulousness of the business entity. As a result, a business entity risks loss of consumer confidence. So the purpose of the bill is to create conditions to prevent infringements of consumer rights. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading of the draft bill, it can be adopted on the basis of the following comments and suggestions made. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, which was introduced by Ukraine's deputy, Socko O.O., to adopt as a basis. [[on strengthening accountability for infringements of consumer rights]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies? Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u106	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! This is about the problem in our society -- the effectiveness of consumer protection mechanisms. Because we can meet with you at every turn today in a variety of ways that violates the rights of consumers. There's a problem. We need to look for a mechanism to increase responsibility for violations of these rights. This bill is designed to strengthen the same responsibility. It also refers to increased fines for infringements of consumer rights, for the implementation of, say, food products. goods of improper quality, unfair entrepreneurial practices and so on and so forth. So the point is that this law requires us to take a step to meet the consumer in defense of his rights. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u107	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the problem is, and the problem needs to be solved, but not in the version defined and written in this bill. In our view, the introduction of this law can overshadow many manufacturers and sellers. Under these conditions, electronic commerce has spread widely, which is uncontrollable, and we warn that we can expand the shadow sector of our economy, not the other way around, to get a significant segment of the Ukrainian economy out of the shadows. And from that point of view, the faction of the Party of Regions is proposing this bill not to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u109	Dear colleagues who still insist on it. Yuri Carmazin, please, one minute. Then the government will need to hear the point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm convinced that this bill is not good for any of the people's deputies, it's good for Ukrainian society today. Why? There are standards that are written down in absolutely all standards for consumer protection in all civilized countries. And I thank the author for taking advantage of that foreign experience in principle. What are we talking about? The point is that if you have something broken and you have to deliver it, the big stuff for, instead of the thing that broke you, you have to deliver it for free, for free, this supplement is offered. Article 10, 9 goes on to clarify what the exchange of good quality goods is like, how it's stored. What's more, I want to tell you that there is such a civilizational norm here if the consumer has the right to use a sanus in a commercial or office space free of charge. It is forbidden to restrict its access.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u111	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u112	I'm done, thank you. This is a complement to article 17, more than that, I would like you to see that the addition to the articles that are here now before. The new article 23: The responsibility for violating consumer rights legislation provides for increased responsibility for the implementation of the goods that have expired. So that's how the health of people who are being poisoned today is protected, because from the West today, the goods are going here, in Ukraine, they're pre-proposed, they're glued to everything, and it's happening here today, and then our Ukrainians are getting sick. That's why I would ask you to support the bill in the first reading. This does not impose any great obligation on us, but there is a chance that we can make and find consensus in society and in this room. I'm talking to my colleague Chechtov, because I've come to understand that Communist colleagues will support this bill, and he needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act (to increase liability for consumer infringements). Registration number 4059. Please vote. [[12:29:43]] For-49 The decision is not supported. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4059]] [[12:30:06.]] For-40 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4333]] [[on the strengthening of responsibility for illegal deprivation of ownership of housing]] At the same time, the author of the bill wrote with a corresponding letter: “Please move the draft Law to the next sessional week”. I am voting on a motion to move the draft Law to the next plenary week. [[Registration number 4333]] [[12:31:03]] For 230 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the right of Ukrainians to free higher education in Ukraine]] Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations Teren Viktor Vasilovich. There's no reporter and no co-conspirator. I put it to a vote: who's to postpone the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's to postpone consideration of the bill, I ask you to make up your mind. [[12:31:57]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Because there's no reporter and no co-rapporteur. There is a conclusion for the committee to accept as a basis for scientific conclusions. The main science-expert authority to reject. Please sign up for the discussion, if any, please sign up. Yuri Carmazin and Boris Tarasyuk Who wrote down Boris Tarasyuk? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. According to the Constitution, article 11 promotes the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, and the historical consciousness, the tradition of culture, and the development of the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of all indigenous peoples and national minorities in Ukraine. It is for the implementation of this article by article 12 of the Constitution, which strengthens the obligation to care for the national, cultural, and linguistic needs of Ukrainians living outside the country. And these changes are made to the law, in particular with these changes, article 9 suggests that a person who has acquired the status of a foreign Ukrainian in the order provided for by this law enjoys the right to free higher education in state and municipal higher education institutions on a competitive basis. That's what we've said many times, at meetings and in laws about a foreign Ukrainian, where we've talked about it all the time. Article 3 proposes to add paragraph 5 to part five, which states that a person who has acquired the status of a foreign Ukrainian is provided with Ukrainian legislation in order to enjoy free higher education in public and municipal higher education institutions on a competitive basis. It is clear that such changes to the Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians, such changes to the Law on Education, will also require amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which also addresses these changes, to these laws and to the provisions provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, it is perfectly logical that if we are in the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, in article 4, we foresee that the person who has acquired the status of a foreign Ukrainian, as provided for in the Ukrainian legislation, on an equal footing with Ukrainian citizens, is entitled to free higher education in state and municipal higher education institutions on a competitive basis. Therefore, it was because the Ukrainian diaspora played a significant role among the world’s powerful diaspora and foreign Ukraine played an important role in the history of our nation that pressured its governments to help the Ukrainian state and to help in the tragedy of Chernobyl. And it is pressing on its governments to help make a visa-free entry for Ukrainians, so that Ukrainians today are not a second - class nation in Europe. That's why I would ask for these changes to some of the laws, and I've called them what laws they're enacting, and they're totally supported by most of society, this is the law on the legal status of Ukrainians, on education and on higher education, as I said before. Please support and accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u115	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, but I'm taking down my question, because the name itself raises a lot of questions, so thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u117	Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u118	Boris Tarasyuk, People's Movement of Ukraine, N.O.S. faction. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposed for your attention is based on articles 11 and 12 of the Constitution in order to create favourable conditions for the consolidation of the Ukrainian nation, the return of Ukrainians to a historic homeland, the satisfaction of their national and cultural needs. Any state that has a multimillion-dollar diaspora is interested in liaising with its fellow countrymen who are outside it. This contributes both to strengthening the relationship between the diaspora and its historic homeland and to the improvement of relations with the country of residence, and to strengthening the international image of the State. Young generations of Ukrainians born and raised far from their homeland begin to lose touch with their homeland, gradually assimilation and integration into the society of the country of residence. In view of this, it is vital to create conditions that enable foreigners to get to know Ukraine better and themselves as an integral part of it. In view of this, the bill proposes that persons who have acquired the status of a foreign Ukrainian in accordance with the Ukrainian legislation have the right to receive free higher education in state municipal higher education institutions on a competitive basis with Ukrainian citizens. The bill provides for appropriate amendments to Ukraine’s laws on the legal status of Ukrainians, on education and on higher education. The implementation of this bill will not require additional financial costs from the State budget, as the right to free higher education will be realized by the stated category of persons within the scope of public procurement for appropriate educational specialties on a competitive basis and on an equal footing with Ukrainian citizens. In addition, it is worth noting that a small number of individuals are involved. Since the creation of the National Commission for Foreigners, namely since 2006, 4 thousand 591 people have become foreigners. I would like to draw your attention to the experience of our neighbors in settling this issue. Yes, in September 2007, Poland adopted the Polish Map Law, which gives foreign Poles not only the right to free higher education but also the right to apply for a special scholarship, free medical care, and so forth. Similar benefits are also granted to foreign Hungarians in accordance with the Hungarians ’ Law. In April 2010, the Government of the Russian Federation introduced a draft Act amending the Federal Law on State Policy in relation to fellow countrymen abroad, which provides for the granting of rights to fellow citizens equal to the citizens of Russia when entering state and municipal educational institutions. That is, similar benefits are common practice in the world. Finally, I'm going to point out that the bill received positive conclusions from three committees, including a profile one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u119	Finish up, please. All of it. Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? One minute, please, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in fact, scientific and expert management has made the only important point in their opinion that it is impossible for them to adopt this bill. The point is that they believe that article 53 of the Constitution gives citizens of Ukraine the exclusive right to higher education free of charge. If we read very well in part four of article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine, there is no word “except ” there. It's about the fact that Ukrainian citizens really have that right, but no one has said that, including in the Constitution, that the Ukrainians don't have that right. The other thing is that this issue is not settled at the constitutional level, but there is nothing that prevents us from settling it at the legislative level. Just think about it! In fact, Ukrainians dream of going abroad as much as possible, but it turns out that there are well - known foreigners who want to teach their children in Ukraine. That is why such a right is essential. The other thing is that these children will find it extremely difficult to enter our university because the external knowledge system needs to study the entire school Ukrainian program. People are even willing to go to this feat in order to learn in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u122	Why do we not give them such an opportunity? I assure you that if there are such cases, they will be isolated cases, but we are simply obliged to give them. Thank you. Because there is no violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u123	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I fully agree with Mr. Knazević that expert management, talented lawyers and scientists, can sometimes be wrong. But I am deeply convinced that our Parliament is never wrong! And now we're going to make the right decision, we're not going to be wrong! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u125	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I will only lead you to the well-known position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was the second committee in this, not the main one. After considering this issue, we supported the draft for adoption in the first reading. Before we were adopted in general, we had quite serious claims, because really, no mechanisms were written out, especially what was mentioned regarding external testing and so forth. Our position was that basically this law would have a very narrow application circle and would apply, de facto, it's basically just the Ukrainians who live abroad, mostly in countries that have former republics of the USSR. These are those who live in Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and so forth. These are mainly SND countries. I don't think there's any political problems here. This is based on the position that Ukraine expresses within the SND. As far as I'm concerned, it's a good practice. I'd like to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the right of Ukrainians to receive free higher education in Ukraine. [[Registration number 3229]] Please vote. Please vote. [[12:43:14]] For-31 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading the bill. [[Registration number 3229]] [[12:43:42]] For-33 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I want to speak to Mr. Michael Chechchev. Mr. Mikhailo, you said the Supreme Council is not wrong. This is the case when the Supreme Council was wrong. Since we encourage the departure of citizens, we encourage immigration, and that is not the case. On the contrary, we need to encourage our arrival at our home to teach our people who have left, who have thus become foreigners. And it is very sad, Mr. Michael, that you represent a serious political power that today speaks of internal and external politics. And I think I've read over the very good efforts that President Yanukovic has made, very good. In fact, he copied what we wrote in his political program. And you're doing it now, contrary to what was given to the national deputies yesterday as a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u129	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u130	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich! That's not the way to start. In order not to leave Ukraine, the economy and standard of living must be raised in order to return to Ukraine! Tomorrow, the President will speak on a strategy of economic reform, which is aimed at raising the economy, converting it, raising social standards. And this will keep young people from going abroad, and on the contrary, it will stimulate the arrival. This is the direction of our work and we call on you to consolidate your efforts in this direction, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u131	Ruslan Knazevich. Boris Tarasyuk and Peter Cibenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u132	I want to say the next thing. In fact, there are Ukrainians who have recently become citizens of other countries but who have such status. Well, for example, we have a lot of people, a million people from Donbas, from the east, from the south, working in the Russian Federation. Their children recently moved to live there with them, among other things, after graduating from Ukrainian schools. Why do you not allow these children to study in Ukrainian universities? They are not ready to study in Russian universities. Parents do not earn enough to pay for expensive education in Ukraine. Moreover, the Ukrainian State spends such expenses each year. They just don't run out of quota. Do not forbid your electorate to learn in Ukraine and vote for your political power, whether now or in the future. Do not deprive them of such a right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u133	Boris Tarasyuk, microphone. Your microphone's not on, the card's been inserted wrong, Boris Ivanovich. Yes, from the rostrum, please. I'm not inserting your card.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the Supreme Council has made a mistake. The shame is that the Supreme Council is not even politically speaking, it is not economically speaking, it has not bowed down to those Ukrainians abroad who in the early years of our restored independence have helped to create foreign political infrastructure abroad, they have invested their money to build and buy premises for Ukraine's foreign institutions when Ukraine has no funds. And what you've deprived of legal rights because, in fact, every year, the state provides 527 scholarships for foreign students in Ukraine, including the Ukrainian diaspora. So I think it's a manifestation of the Ukrainianophobic policy of today's coalition that declares in the draft Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u135	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u136	The fact that the state has to take care of Ukrainians abroad is actually depriving them of that right. This is actually a manifestation to the Ukrainians abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u137	Thank you. I am only, my fellow Members, one thing I can say is that the drafter of the bill has not voted in favour of this bill. This, Boris Ivanovich, is also a manifestation. You didn't vote for your bill. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u138	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, you know this situation that has now arisen with the adoption of this law is, in fact, a continuation of the discussion that began today with the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, the opposition was wearing shirts, how they loved them, how they were willing to help them, and how they were willing to protect them. This is the first time. Secondly, where are they now? They're not in the conference room. And the third thing I'd like to pay attention to. Dear colleagues, let's honestly answer the question: “Can any Ukrainian citizen who lives in Ukraine today actually exercise his right to free higher education?” Unfortunately, not everyone. And in this situation, distributing this right to Ukrainians abroad, well, it's probably not quite right. You know, it's easy and pleasant to love Ukraine far from a prosperous country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, we are going to consider a bill to amend the Ukrainian Civil Code. [[Registration number 3677]] [[on the adoption of an inheritance]] Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Biruk Lev Vasilovich, co-rapporteur - Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Is there a reporter, a co-reporter? None. I'm voting on the bill's transfer of registration number 3667. [[12:50:24]] For-22. The decision is not taken. I ask then, Your Honor, to sign up for a bill. There's a committee's conclusion, a proposal to accept as a basis. And there's the conclusion of the Chief Research Administration. Please write down who will be speaking. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u140	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good bill. I remind you that this bill proposes to supplement article 1268 of the Civil Code of Ukraine with a new part that provides for the possibility of the heir to the first line of inheritance under the law, which has actually entered the administration or ownership of the inheritance property, is considered to have adopted an inheritance if, during the term set out in article 1270 of the Code, he has not claimed to refuse it. I remind you that there was an article in the Civil Code back in 1963, number 549, which foretold exactly what it meant to become an heir. That is, if a person began to care for and care for property belonging to his parents or relatives closest to him, then a valid standard allows only for an heir who lived permanently with an heir. If an heir who wishes to accept an inheritance at the time of the discovery of an inheritance has not lived permanently, he must submit an application for an inheritance to the notary office. The language goes why. I understand the legislator and the author, and thank you to the National MP Biryuk for taking such an initiative. In fact, it is only about introducing part 4 into article 1268 of the Civil Code because there are shortcomings when people make claims, some of them are not enough. They're not informed about the inheritance acceptance procedure, and that's why they're missing the six-month deadline set for this. There are lawsuits, and then it's all settled, all of these cases in the courts. In order not to do so, the author suggested that we do so. I refer projects to political, to very political, to completely empty and useful. So this bill can be referred to as useful and completely apolitical, so there's no politics here, it's going to protect the interests of the heirs of the first queue, which is irrelevant. who enter the administration or possession of hereditary property and are absolutely free from any political influence. load. So I would ask my fellow MPs to vote and support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u141	Ruslan Knyazevich, please, microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, frankly, I have the honour of working with the Committee of Legal Policy, which is very sensitive to this issue. It's a shame that there is no committee head, but we have such silent agreement in the community of people who work on this committee not to speak at all about politics at the committee meeting, and so the fact that the committee's decision was unanimously voted on by all members of the committee, including those who now represent the coalition, tells us that. Well, then why are we delegating our own experts to profile committees, and then in the session room somehow, as one of the leaders of the Party of Regions says, don't listen to the experts' thoughts, and they may be wrong. The thing is, it's totally not political, as the reporter just said, the bill. It refers to the fate of many who simply do not know the requirements of the Civil Code regarding the six - month period of inheritance. These people are just being abused, you know, by bad guys who then turn it into a sort of raiding, actually, for their own good. Whatever it is, let's either ask it or it's from.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, the offer is clear. I just don't see a last name, so give me a hint, dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, because I'm here and I don't see who's raising my hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, there is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u145	This bill is strictly technical. Because civil law is valid, the concept of “property management, which is part of an inheritance”. And it depends, not on the actual circumstances, but on the basis of a special contract. And at that time it is stipulated that if there is no heirs or executors, then the notary or other authorized person makes an agreement on the administration of this property. The bill stipulates that this property management, this institution, yes, comes into force as under actual circumstances. Therefore, the text of the bill needs improvement. In fact, it's definitely necessary. But the text has to be rewritten.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, so we don't have a discrepancy, obviously until the second reading, there's going to be an opportunity to address the problems that our colleague just said. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law, registration number 3677, on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Civil Code. [[on the adoption of an inheritance]] Please vote. [[12:56:52]] For-37 The decision is not taken. I'll put a second sentence to the vote: referring to the re-reading of the draft law. [[Registration number 3677]] [[12:57:17]] For-36 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, you and I would now like to consider Bill 4815 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine to limit the measures taken outside the scope of State control in the field of economic activity. [[control]] At the same time, the author of the bill wrote: “For the purpose of aligning Bill No. 4815 with the Government of Ukraine, please remove it from consideration of the second, sixth and move it to the next plenary week. The proposal is agreed with the Government's representative in the Supreme Council." I'm going to put to the vote a motion to postpone the bill, registration number 4815, for next week. Please vote. [[12:58:15.]] For 255 Decision taken. Moved to the next consideration. A similar proposal was made regarding Bill 4510. I'm putting this motion to the vote, please be sure. [[12:58:47]] For 224 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. I will put to the vote a return to the proposal to postpone the consideration of Bill 4510. Please be sure. [[12:59:16]] For 241 Decision taken. Aah! We're back on the subject. And now I'm voting on a motion to postpone the bill. [[Registration number 4510]] [[12:59:44]] For 240 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on working day duration]] [[changes]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Maruschenko Vladimir Stanislavovic, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna. There is a proposal to consider a bill on a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:00:27]] For 206 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u147	Dear Sir, your head! Dear colleagues! In the field of employment, one of the important issues is the question of working time. The maximum length of working time is determined by legislation to preserve the lives, health and productivity of employed workers in order to protect their rights and respect for privacy in order to enable workers to fulfil their family responsibilities and to realize their other natural rights. According to article 45 of the Constitution, the maximum length of working time is determined by law. The Labour Code determines the maximum working week duration – 40 hours and the maximum working day duration – 7 hours for the six-day working week. However, in the case of business enterprises, institutions, organizations, as well as individual productions, workshops, offices, offices, certain types of work, where production cannot be maintained by a given category of workers daily or weekly working hours, it is permitted to agree with the elected body of the primary professional organization for the implementation of the summary work hours. As long as the working hours during the accounting period do not exceed the normal number of hours worked. The law defines the maximum working time for only the entire accounting period. So if we take four weeks of account time there, it's 160 hours. The question of the maximum duration of the work week and the maximum duration of the day-to-day work is not regulated in the context of the application of the accrual of working hours. So my bill is designed to settle these very things. It should be noted that the Ministry of Labour has approved methodological recommendations for the application of the total amount of time worked, according to which the duration of work during the day should not exceed 12 hours. On the basis of what has been said, I would like to support the bill, which provides that the total work hours do not exceed 12 hours of daily work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u148	Thank you. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelova, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please, the Committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u149	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! As already noted, the bill provides for the addition of article 61 of the Ukrainian Labour Code to the provision that the length of daily work, the change, cannot exceed 12 hours, with the sum total of working hours. On October 21, 2009, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill and proposed to adopt the bill as a basis. In doing so, the committee concluded that, for the time being, the question of setting working hours for a cumulative period of up to 12 hours is regulated only by a sub-legal act, order Minpraci of 19.04. 2006 No. 138 on the approval of methodological recommendations for the application of the summary working time, i.e. at the sub-legislative level. In addition, the International Labour Organization conventions also set up a longer maximum working time, or this is referred to as defined by ILO Convention No. 67 on the length of working hours on road transport in 39th year, 19th year and so on. [[ILO Convention 180 - 14 hours]] The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Federation of Employers of Ukraine support the bill. The National Tripartite Economic and Social Council of the President of Ukraine, from all the Ukrainian trade unions and their associations, believes that the proposal to set the maximum length of daily work, with the sum of working hours, deserves attention. In view of the above, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u150	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! If anyone insists on discussing it, please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National deputy of Vyezovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u151	Vladimir Jazynowski "Our Ukraine". It's only fair when we talk about dealing with this point of actual legislation in the context of a person's efficiency. Because we know that from the experience of today's practice, apart from the recommendations made by the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, there are, unfortunately, cases where citizens work 24 hours a day. I realize that it's a job that doesn't seem to need special attention, it's probably guards and others who are close to these areas of service. But what I'm saying is that the efficiency of work 24 hours a day is extremely low. And so it's quite fair that both employers and the companies that are standing should be on the watch for the employees of the hired labour, agree with the position that corresponds to the International Labour Organization Convention -- by limiting 12 hours to the period of employees who are involved in any responsible and even less responsible work. This will be fair in terms of those workers, it will be fair in terms of their responsibility to their work. Because more than 12 hours of work completely shows practice is ineffective, which means it doesn't affect us to have additional gains in the economy, it doesn't affect the entrepreneur to be at peace with the employee who can do more or less actively more than 12 hours of work. So this position needs to be supported, and the faction "Our Ukraine" will support it unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u152	Deputy Volintz, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u153	Wolfman Communist faction, Schachtersk, Donetsk region. These changes are highly contradictory, even if the recommendations of the Chief Expert Board are not taken into account, it can be said that in 2006 it was already stated that Order 138 of Mintruki and Social Policy established conditions and procedures for the application of time-consuming measures. Each year, the Ministry sets a standard for the calculation of working hours per year. Secondly, these rules will open our hands to the employer and, let's say, bind our hands to the hired workers. After all, we have an eight-hour workday a week. And if it's only legal to process four hours in two days, and that's why it just disappears, and we can't even make a double payment in this case. And let's take into account that 12 hours ago, there were strikes of all kinds in the past century, measures to reduce the length of the working day. Therefore, I propose not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Nobody insists anymore? No, it's not. The faction has already spoken, Yuri Anatoliyovich, the faction has already appeared. [[Unheard]] I won't ask you next time, thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I put to the vote this proposal to adopt as the basis for the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (as regards working hours (changes). Registration number 4682. [[13:09:00]] For-22. The decision is not taken. For a second time, and then for reasons, I'm submitting a proposal to send Bill 4682. Let's do it again. [[13:09:27]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I voted against this bill. And I think you can send him back for second reading just because international conventions are talking about a limit to 10 hours of work. And only sailors and crew members could make it up to 14 hours. Thus, a sublegal act, which includes instruction, a methodological instruction from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, tells us that it is possible to continue working for up to 12 hours. We had to limit 10 hours at the legislative level just like the 1930 International Labour Organization Convention. That's why I'd like to ask you to come back. Thank you, colleague Marouschenk, for wanting to bring this in the legislative order somehow so that it is not regulated by methodical recommendations. And we have to go back to that and get to the normal number 10. That would be perfectly normal if we came to world standards. I ask you to return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u156	I propose a return to the question of re-reading the draft law on return to consideration. [[Registration number 4672]] [[13:11:11]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4682]] I've already announced the vote. [[13:11:38]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on payable periods]] [[Registration number 4749]] Reporter: Vladimir Maruschenko. I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:12:13]] For 213 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Article 45 of the Constitution strengthens the right of employed workers to receive timely remuneration for work. Article 15 of the Labour Code, Article 24 of the Labour Act, establishes the periodicity of payment of wages. Not less than twice a month, after a period of time not exceeding 16 calendar days. The terms of payment of wages, according to current legislation, article 15 of the Code and the Act on Pay for Work, article 24, should be enshrined in a collective agreement. However, a collective agreement between hired workers and employers is not always concluded. Appropriately, pay periods are not rarely uncertain. The bill therefore proposes to provide for the possibility of establishing specific pay periods not only in a collective agreement but also in a statutory act of the employer that is in agreement with the electoral body of the primary professional organization or other authorised representatives of the labour group, the body. There is also the question of whether payable periods should be determined by taking into account the principles of justice and the principles of non-discrimination of employees of one enterprise in relation to employees of another enterprise. This requires a definition in legislation on the work of pay-out deadlines. The bill therefore proposes that the salary should be paid to workers no later than three days after the end of the period for which payments are made. After all, when a person’s money is actually earned by a hired employee for a certain period of time is used unjustifiably by an employer, it is unacceptable in terms of the principles of the rule of law. So please support my bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u158	Yes, thank you. Please sit down. Who insists? From the committee? Please, two more minutes from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u159	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work at its meeting on October 21, 2009, considered the bill. The bill proposes to set a time limit for employees to pay their salaries: no later than 3 days after the end of the period for which payments are made. The main task of the bill is to improve the legal regulation of labour relations and to protect the rights of employed workers to receive their wages in a timely manner by defining the time limit for payment of wages. It should be noted that the bill’s agreement meets the requirements of the ILO Convention on the Protection of Wages, revised on June 23, 1992 and ratified by Ukraine in a new edition on October 19, 2005. The committee supports the main objective of the bill to protect the right of employed workers to receive their wages in a timely manner. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the proposals made. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics, believe that the draft law needs to be finalized. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, do not support the bill. The Federation of Employers of Ukraine and the Confederation of Employers of Ukraine propose to leave article 115 of the Ukrainian Labour Code and 24 of the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act in force. The Institute of State and the right of the Korean name supports the changes proposed by the draft law to actual labour legislation. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on pay terms to be accepted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u160	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies? Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, and Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u161	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. We support the adoption of this important bill, because today's payroll debt in Ukraine exceeds 1 billion dollars, and this figure tends to increase. A significant part of this failure to pay wages is the failure to pay wages for economically active enterprises, even when they are able to pay their wages on time, they are either on bank accounts or used for other purposes, and employees are not paid on time. So having guarantees not later than three days after the payment period is an important legislative act, and we understand how double the position of employers is. In the previous law, if it is possible to increase working hours to 12 hours in contravention of ILO Convention No. 30, these employers supported the initiatives. And when it comes to paying a worker on time for the same work that is often done outside of working hours, there is no initiative. I think it's really an important initiative. The science-expert management supports this initiative. Only, really, can we agree that this has to be reconciled with the third party, with the professional bodies. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u162	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we remember when there were large debts after six months, a year, and then we fought with you. In Parliament, to adopt very important changes to the law, which stipulates that pay is the primary payment. Why? Because of man’s hard work, he needs to live for it, and he needs to get a salary. But we know that there are problems with the delay in wages. It would be very good if the unions, according to his colleague Maruschenko, made collective agreements where employers were obliged to do their primary duty — to pay their wages on time. Regrettably, such collective agreements are not for most businesses, but private enterprises do not have them at all. So I personally, I don't know how my colleagues will vote, I urge you to support this proposal. The only thing you can say is whether it's three days or five days or how many, force major circumstances, there are other circumstances, you have to write out, but you have to be protected by law, if you don't have a union or a collective agreement, then the law must protect a person's right to receive a pay in time. I would like to support this proposal in the first reading, and then agree on the terms, and reconcile it with the unions, with the employers, and on the second reading, to go out on an agreeable scheme. Because the salary, once again, is the human reward for the job. And a colleague who had previously said: “Dear colleagues, there is a Convention 153 ILO, ratified by the Supreme Council in 2008. So this 153 ILO Convention allows people to work in particular for up to 12 hours, but it's consistent over the week that it should be no more than 40 hours. If it is more than 40 hours, the employer is obliged to give people an extra weekend. Over the course of the month, it's going to be 160 hours legally. So when they say today that we're kind of getting into a 12-hour workday code. That's not true, there are professions that need that term. So I would ask, in closing, to support the proposal in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Peter Cibenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u165	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that even with certain doubts that this change in current legislation will allow workers to receive more timely wages, however, the faction of Communists will certainly vote in favour of this rule. She's right. The other thing is that apparently those authorities, those bodies overseeing the implementation of legislation in today’s conditions, are not entirely. does not use an arsenal that can be used to pay on time. That is, there is no guarantee that that part of the legislation will be carried out more clearly. But nevertheless, this step in the right direction needs to be supported, and the faction of the Company of Ukraine will certainly support it. Unlike the previous decision, where citizens of Ukraine were once again tried to wear a yoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt a bill as a basis. The findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration are positive, so they also suggest. I understand. So we're going to take it as a base, and then we're going to make changes, and that's it. Dear colleagues! A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of a draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4749]] [[on payable periods]] Please vote. [[13:22:02]] For-81 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 2, "Club of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 37, communists – 25, "Club of Lithuania" – 17. Please, Alexander Stoyan. "Afterfractional" is 0.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, well, you don't have to politicize that question. We'll hear and we'll do -- we'll be fine. What are we talking about? I just got off the phone with people who run big businesses. Vladimir Mikhailovich, they said, "In three days, if 10,000 to 15,000 people work, it is physically impossible to pay these costs." If we write this down -- three days -- that means we're putting them under criminal responsibility. Let's set the term: within a week of the day when the right to pay is due, within 7 days. And this will be voted by our faction, and that will be normal. Because, in fact, a large enterprise needs a term to determine when a salary is paid. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, why don't we change the term? Or already, in an extreme case, for the re-reading of the first reading. And then we change the term, and we'll be fine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote a return to the bill. When the Supreme Council supports the return, then we'll consider the proposal: the term is seven days. And if not, there will be no second proposal, then the third one will be the first. That's three sequences. Please, the government that thinks about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u169	[[?]] The Ministry of Labour does not support this bill, so 3 days is a very limited deadline for paying wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the position of the government is understandable. I'm voting on the motion to return to the bill of registration number 4749. Please vote. About the return. [[13:24:09]] For 258. We're back. Now I'm voting on a proposal to accept it as a basis, a bill, but the deadline is 7 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u171	In seven days. No objections? I'm betting on voting this proposal with this clarification: acceptance as a basis for changing the term: within seven days. Please vote. [[13:24:53]] For 266 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u172	The factions, please. Region Party - 168, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 7, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 41, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 20, non-fractional - 3. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine is being announced. [[on the collection rate for catering and the targeted use of congregation revenue]] Registration number 1235. I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't hear. [[13:25:51]] For 210 Decision taken. Please, Stretovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u173	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, People's Union "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I'm surprised at the position of the government that doesn't support a bill that is given to live -- three days for business owners to pay their wages. The law has already made it clear: 16 days, please pay, and 3 days is not enough. We must keep the law in its essence. We gave a lift in seven days. Well, consider it not democratic, it's not normal, it's not legal. Because you have to follow the law: it's been 16 days, please pay twice a month. And it's "up to seven days" -- it's like that again, you know, we're kind of racing, and then it's gonna be like ten. Where seven is there and ten. It's absolute, you know, nonsensus when we set that standard when we write for three days, and the government says, no, we don't support it. So the government's job is to make the employer pay the salary in two periods after 16 days, and that's normal. And so when the government denies it, it's just a strange position of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u174	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, please. Well, somebody else, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, this is it. So I'm listening to a Christian Democrat, a big demogogue, and I want to remind you that your government, Yulia Timoshenko, after a year and a half, didn't pay a salary for five months. The debt amounted to a billion 800 million in both the manufacturing and budget spheres on January 1, 2010. And you didn't say anything about being held accountable. We made a very beautiful law. He foresees two points: the first moment, if a union at the level of the primary organization is an agreement with the employer, is a collective agreement, they can pay off day after day. If the employer delays his salary, he will be fined. If there's no trade or there's no collective agreement, we're going to give a lift for a week, but we say pay the salary. That's it. Why are you saying this now? Remember what you did! And what we have done today is positive, because we enforce the law, we oblige the employer to pay his wages back within a week. And you can pay back the debts owed by your government, Timoshenko, another one and a half billion more than last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the power of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, do everything possible to make our government Ukrainian, not Timoshenko there, not Petrova, Ivanova, Sidorova. To have a Ukrainian government, we will have no problems. Please, Peter Cibenko on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u177	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Company voted in favour of the document, both in the previous edition and in the one that was adjusted, because it is our principle position. But what I want to do is think about why it's so hard in this room to have similar questions, I mean, and the previous question, and the question of enlargement. about the possible increase in working hours to 12 hours. And this is very difficult for one simple reason: some of our colleagues, as Ukrainian national deputies, have not stopped owning factories, cars, and steamboats. I mean, he's actually sitting in a meeting room like a national MP, like he's supposed to vote like that. And as a person who is an employer, he has no hand to vote like that, he protects himself here as an employer. That's the answer to the question why these questions are going on in our meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you once again that we will now consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine. [[on the collection rate for catering and the targeted use of congregation revenue]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Kostenko. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine, was adopted in 2003. The practice of applying the rules of this law has shown that it is ineffective, especially that law and its position are not in line with European practices regarding the gastronal congregation. For example, for most European countries, the gastropolis for foreign performers ranges from 15 to 30 percent. In Italy, that's the most, 30 percent of foreigners pull on gastro-travel trips. In Denmark, 25 percent, in Germany, 21 percent, and in Russia, 18 percent. In Ukraine, as you know, the standards of our foreign legislation are only three percent. The second problem that this law has failed to resolve is that the standards of this legislation are actually applied against Ukrainian contractors. According to various estimates of Ukrainian craftsmen who can travel in Ukraine today, the Ukrainian scene dropped to 15-20 percent, and the rest are foreign performers. Our Central Palace of Culture in Kiev, where practically Ukrainian, purely Ukrainian performers fell to 5-7 percent in a year. So the purpose of the bill that you are considering is to bring Ukrainian legislation into European practice. By the way, this strategy will be discussed tomorrow in the Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy. And the second is the strategy of government policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u181	She promised to support a national producer. It's about creating conditions for the Ukrainian performer to create a Ukrainian product that would use demand in Ukraine, that's also about filling the State budget, that's about supporting the development of Ukrainian culture, the bookstore and the support of Ukrainian masters. We would be asked to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u182	Thank you. Please sit down, Yuri Ivanovich. Please, from the committee. There's the committee's conclusion. They propose to correct the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. There's an appropriate decision of the science department. So please sign up for the discussion. Please state the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u183	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. We support Yuri Ivanovich’s sound offer to increase the gastronal congregation. Because looking at the theater or the theater or the art or the concert or the Kiev or any district center, we see the efforts of secondary performers or the rush of assembled corpses coming to Ukraine to make their own money. And that's no secret to anyone, because the wages paid by foreign performers in a number of ways go beyond the wages or benefits that leading artists and singers have in their concert activities, the theaters of Ukraine. And this needs, really, what's the idea that not only these congregations, but those congregations are going to focus on the production of Ukrainian products and on the provision of gastronomic activities and those artistic groups that are in Ukraine itself. Because 10-20 years ago, it was pretty popular, let's say the gastrolas of one theater to another city, two Sundays, a month, and really high-quality art was represented. Now we see that there are virtually no leading theatres in Kiev from the district centers. Although many of them have much to show and much to see. And at an artistic level, according to the work of art, their work goes beyond the work of those theaters that come under a certain brand, but that don't reach it. So we need to take it as a basis. Of course, it needs work, it needs specific work with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. But it must be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u184	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! The question is really relevant. But I'm having these two doubts right now. The first sum. I'd like to ask Yuri Ivanovich. Yuri Ivanovich, and you weren't interested in why all our leading artists are so prominent, they go to Moscow first? And Vera Serduchka on the gastrolas, the same "Craves". And more than that, when you watch a Russian concert in Ukraine, it says, and my roots in Ukraine, the Queen and many others, that is Milavska, you can call it. Why is it that our beautiful estranged singers flee to Russia? Is it more expensive, or is it in some way, that they don't want to be here? I mean, we need to protect our artist. But if we raise the congregation, Yuri Ivanovich, it will not lead to an increase in the price of the ticket. And I want to say that famous Moscow theaters are coming, so there's a lot of Chinese in line for these tickets, because they're professional theaters, they're famous theaters, and to make the congregation bigger is to translate the responsibility of the overseer. That's why we have to approach both sides. On the one hand, to protect our artists, to enable us to speak properly in the state, to create normal conditions so that they do not run for a long ruble or a dollar there, to Moscow. On the other hand, when all the artists came, for example, I once remembered being in Crimea and performing Kirkorov, and said, “I will not go to this Kiev anymore!” It was the age of 10. But now I see more Kirkorov in Kiev than in Moscow. So here's a normal "fowl" for him. It might actually have to be limited, but don't let us see artists from Russia, from other countries, because they're highly professional, especially Russian, I emphasize, theaters, Leningrad theaters and much more. So I would like to hear from you the answer, Yuri Ivanovich, the reasons why our people run there, and what happens if we raise the congregation. So I'm going to propose to the Party of Regions to accept in the first reading, to work out, to re-read, to work it out, to make it good, and to make it good for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u186	Please, the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Deputy Minister of Culture Kohan Timofi Grigorovich. The point is that the Ministry of Culture has now prepared a bill on gastro-medical measures in Ukraine in parallel. And of course we support the fact that we need to increase the interest on taxation. And many of the questions that are in the law given by the honourable deputies are understandable to us. But that's our offer. Since the alternative prepared by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is larger and more thorough in the presentation of some issues, we would suggest that we set up a working group, unite our two laws, and take into account the positive there and there, then bring the bill to the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u188	Please, Yuri Costenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, when we worked on this bill, it was the economics of this kind that was primarily taken into account. According to the Committee on Culture and Spiritual Recovery, more than 400 million dollars a year are exported from Ukraine by foreign gastrolers. According to some newspapers, in just three summer months of 2007, for example, on the Black Sea coast of Kirkorov, he earned $5 million in Ukraine, and Galkin, $3 million, Russian performers. But at the same time, they didn't pay a penny to the State Budget or to the local budget. This is the situation and we need the Supreme Council to solve the problem through the introduction of a bill. I propose that those proposals prepared by the government, but this is a very complicated bill, its Committee on Culture and Spirituality has not been working for the first year. Let's take the first reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u190	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u191	In the second reading mode, we'll take into account what the Ministry of Culture is proposing. And in order not to waste time, let's adopt a law that is starting to work for Ukraine's economy and culture today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. There was a question about why they were going from Ukraine to Russia there and to other countries. Because there is a higher legislature and authority that cares about national interests. And we always think about how to bend to someone, how someone likes them. [[Applause]] They'll be running away from us. So let's just make a choice in the voting process. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastroline Measures in Ukraine. [[on the collection rate for catering and the targeted use of congregation revenue]] [[Registration number 1235]] Please vote. [[13:40:47]] For-64 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 1235]] [[13:41:10]] For 240 Decision taken. List of questions to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u193	It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u194	Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u195	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I fully share your view that the Russian Federation is more easily supported by its own groups, which are carrying out catering activities because they are doing Ukrainian. Russian, more loyal, politics. And we don't want to do Russian. Nobody wants to compare what they're able to capture 250 million consumers all the time, and we have 46 million in total, and that part of them, you know, you're trying to get out of the country. I believe that this bill, which is now broken, is a bill to get half a billion dollars out of the Ukrainians' pockets, it is absolutely for the political forces that have failed this bill. I think that both Kostenko and the Hare correctly asked the questions, have normally defined: they can't compete equally with the natives and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u196	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u197	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, we've seen today that when the questions are voted out, you know, provocative, then the Yulia Timoshenko Block is present in the hall. And when the question was put to the vote, as my colleague, a purely united colleague of Ukraine, said, which really helps to celebrate some anniversary, there are no such people. I want to remind you that in the morning, an MP, an honest man, showed me the statue of paper and cried that something could be done on this paper. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please calculate in three hours the missing 150 people, count them for microphones, broken chairs, everything else. If they still don't want to work, you know, so comfortable: 250 people make normal decisions except constitutional ones. We can keep doing this. Maybe we'll make a decision for a while when they're in opposition, let them pay for the money, and we'll help the kids, the pensioners, a lot more. Because without them, we work normally, and they're all provocations and stupid decisions. So I would like to take this proposal into account that these people came here, in opposition, not to work, but to obstruct the implementation of the President's and the government's decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-02-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the schedule, the list of issues scheduled for June 2nd, we have exhausted. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. After lunch, MPs work on committees, factions, commissions. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our plenary work.
