ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:12]] There were 434 national deputies registered in the hall. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u2	Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the diplomatic representation of foreign states, other officials. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Babaka Valery Borisovich and Kurila Vitali Semenović. Let's welcome our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Now, the fact that in this session that we are starting today, we have to crown the new President of Ukraine, makes it particularly important and responsible, more specifically sensitive, and if you want, disturbing. Because in today’s situation, when opposition comes to mania, after the agony of the victorious elections, we will most likely be expected to continue to determine relations and at the same time try to adapt Ukraine and power, especially the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the victors. Both the first and the second, obviously, cannot be allowed. And it's also obvious that there should be no illusion about that. These unprincipled political clashes, pathological trials and business practices, which are particularly pronounced during the electoral campaign, are a problem for the country. But it's obviously still half-bride. The problem is that there is absolutely nothing to be done in the country, and it is driven to the ground. And what's scariest is that it's already in the state stage, it's stuck in chaos and inertia. Think about it. In fact, the authorities have declared the whole country an enemy of power and are pushing the people into a cemetery pit. We've already started. We start all over and we don't finish anything, and we don't finish anything. We spend our energy building such a tower in Babylon. However, the crisis for us, like the flu epidemic, has already ended, but not for the people. We're demonstrating incredibly irresponsible actions. The election campaign did not become a period of economic penetration, a dialogue based on the truth about new approaches to setting up the country. Moreover, we have entered it completely unprepared, without clearly defined and harmonized positions on key, central issues of state-building. It's like we're all talking about the same thing, as if we're all concerned about the country, as if we're all on the same level of power, and we're looking at different windows, we're looking at each other, we're trying to destroy each other, while we should be looking in the same direction. The year's budget is lost and optimism is that in March we will be able to adopt the budget was obviously premature. The year is lost, including through various kinds of improvisations, experiments, and, according to large estimates, through the baccanine. Generally speaking, we don't know the countries, we don't know what's going on at a deep human level, and the people don't understand us. People’s anger and hatred have grown into total apathy, and this is a natural response to the long - term disregard for their rights, interests, expectations, and expectations, especially in the face of the terrible devaluation of the word. Verbal incontinence and irresponsibility have apparently already been a sign of Ukrainian modern times. But we should finally be aware that, under a thin film of indifference and legality, under a thin film of legality, there is a critical mass of national discontent. Ukraine is increasingly isolated from the world, the world is isolated from Ukraine. As a result, we fall out of the 21st century as a state and society of the day. In general, some may think that the power of Ukraine is alone and have done everything to drive the country into loneliness. Therefore, to continue a serious Ukrainian conversation about the fate of the people and Ukraine is a responsibility that can obviously interfere with crime. Unfortunately, I must say that appeals to such a dialogue before the electoral campaign began were ignored and indifferently taken here in the sessional room of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, as Head of the Supreme Council, I see my task modestly: to yell at each and every one of you and to make each of you believe in yourself, in your assignment and responsibility, to make sure that the new post-election realities do not overshadow the country and the people, but for the same and for us. In the shadows, of course, it's safer to feel safe, but we should probably come out of the shadows and insist first and foremost, and ask questions first of all from the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine about the urgent review of the 2010 budget. We need to get the country back into the legal field, the constitutional field, and organize life on the basis of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. We need to move away from conspiracies, agreements and quotas, because conspiracies, agreements and quotas are the way to the final destruction of the country. Anything should be done to ensure that the Constitution works, to determine a number of laws in the development of the Constitution. As you know, honourable colleagues, almost 100 legislative acts have been adopted in the development of the Constitution, but they don't work. Under these conditions, legislation is devoid of any internal logic. We should and should be able to create a national legal field as a whole and an undisputed system. Today, it is not whole and is contradictory. The day’s Parliament’s legislative process should not continue to be designed to solve current problems and to address the principle of political relevance. I propose that we clear up the agenda of the session by holding one session and making decisions on draft laws that have become obsolete or that are open-minded. We need to set priorities and ensure a system of organization of work. And I don't want to stress this in particular by the statisticians in the fight for the Ukrainian judicial system. To ensure the legislative transformation of the judiciary, because justice is the most vulnerable system of our social life. I propose that we find out, in the end, about the only approaches regarding the judiciary, the status of the judges, until the issue of appointment to the courts is resolved. I believe the latter should be the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Not the Council of Judges, not the Supreme Council of Justice, but if we, the Supreme Council, are the supreme legislative and representative body of the people, so let us take on this responsibility, but we will be responsible for it. Then there will be no fight by the one we see today. In fact, the country is being stretched out, and we are taking care of what anyone can and wants to carry from this country that is left behind. And the special question is the relationship between the Supreme Council and the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court should contribute to the strengthening of constitutional law in the State. Instead, the court is effectively entering the sphere of competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whose exclusive powers are known to include the adoption of laws. Let us mention one epoch with the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court no longer has anything to do with the internal document of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the Constitutional Court does not have the rules approved by law and teaches how to teach the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is clear that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which makes decisions regarding the appointment of persons, should probably control the activities of the persons concerned. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court, and this position should be the Supreme Council, should not become a political body, because we are facing a very difficult time. A specific issue is the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I ask and propose the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure with the law of one line: “Approval of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, and not giving any further grounds for persecution to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will need both the people and everyone present here. Because when we don't get the document ready, everyone doesn't do anything. So I suggest, look, please put this document on the faction, and let's vote it as a law before the presidential campaign is completed, because after that no decision will be taken, and the Supreme Council will be in suspension. The question is Ukraine in the world's legal space. Its accession to it has become purely formal because it has not transformed our country into either democratic or legal or social. Moreover, the individual agreements that we have approved here are the unilateral concessions of Ukraine. Clearly, we need to take a principled stand on this issue. In doing so, I would like to ask the honourable colleagues to pay attention to the improper, careless and untimely fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations to the Council of Europe. I ask the relevant committees and the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to identify a list of issues that we should take to fully fulfil our obligations to the Council of Europe, so that we can ask questions in the plane of Ukraine's transfer after the monitoring period. We can't be under surveillance all the time. Another issue that we need to pay attention to today, in the coming days, is the absolute lack of readiness for local elections. At the same time, I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that 20 days from now, the election campaign has to start, and we have to form a commission. To highlight these and other problems of our work, I think it is necessary, given that instead of dialogue, serious talk and serious work, the situation may arise: the President, the new President of Ukraine, will not be able to hold the Supreme Council in his arms, and he has the courage to refuse to deal with the practice in all matters, especially at the earliest stages. I am convinced that we are in favour of having a dialogue, that we have common understanding that power is the only institution that has proper powers and branches of power, and that we need to have a conversation from the state and from the interests and needs of the people. I'd like, your honor, to ask each and every one of you to stop managing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a paradox, we're sitting here, and some people don't come here at all, but they usually work on Fridays at 9:30 a.m. on a talk show and tell us how bad the Supreme Council is, but they get the salary right. If so, please come and tell us how you will launch the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all, to open yourself up, to form a parliamentary mandate, and that will be at least honest and accountable to the people. You see what's going on here, my dear fellows, and we're all either applauding or indignant on the one hand. Elephants that do not belong to anyone are given away. For example, the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. So let's figure out what the relationship should be between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. That is to say, it is obvious that this is to take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to form responsible authority and to share responsibility for it. Because that's how our people decide who's going to be president, who's going to be prime minister of Ukraine, and then they're going to decide that we don't need this senior representative body of the people at all. What's more, we give a lot of reasons for that. Dear colleagues, once again, if we are devoid of ambition for ourselves and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will not demonstrate such ambition to defend the country's interests. We need to resuscitate the higher representative body of the people, which we ourselves have plunged into the mud, I emphasize, into the mud ourselves. Think about it! Every third meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was cancelled. One in three! This is 65 meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, it's obvious that each of us has to answer the question: Why are we here? Or declare demobilization. At least that'll be fair. In order to do so, we need to change aggression, a lack of acceptance of one another into honesty and solidarity in the interests of the country and the people. And stop producing problems for the country, eventually, as a minimum, give people peace of mind. So I propose, and I ask you, dear colleagues, to stop and do what we have to do, or others will do it for us. Dear National Deputies! Let's face it, you can't pretend to be a representative of the people. We must become a representative of the people, and we must be a representative of the people. And to finish, last. There will be no election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I guarantee it. [[Applause]] As long as we get to it and get to work. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block, prepare for Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the beginning of the next session in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which takes place on the background and during the culmination of the electoral opposition, especially the fact that the effectiveness, effectiveness and fate of today's Parliament are being held hostage by the fierce struggle for absolute power, forces us to turn to the Asians, to an elementary awareness of what is Parliament and why there is no place for savage strife, ridiculous scenes of jealousy, hysterical and primitive malice. And I remember this because I believe and, even convinced, most of the colleagues in this room are prepared and able to actually do parliamentary work. Parliament is expected to be a parliament, not a service service, for the care of political breadwinners and their sponsors. Nor is it a place to employ those who dispose of warm and profitable chairs elsewhere. Interestingly, the latter are trying to get here even though they fought it in public. But the most universal definition of Parliament is the national representative body of the state government, which is always in operation, and whose main purpose is to carry out the rule of law. So here's the basic function of Parliament -- the legislation has gone, in a mild sense, backwards. Not surprisingly, his writings are not always honorable with the corrupt author. Thus, either purposefully or not, the power of the law is destroyed by destroying Parliament. Legal nihilism is already taking on a form of legal cretinism. The laws of those who are obliged to carry them out simply spit, or, at the very least, the laws are applied only to the part where they meet the cyclical interests of political structures. In such conditions, parliamentarians in most of their self-sufficient, solid people, who have achieved much in their lives, who have successfully managed multi-thousand groups, educated, intellectually developed people, are not required to accumulate and exploit their powerful potential, their knowledge to form modern-day perfect legislation in all areas of life, which is the main task of the parliamentarian. They are turned into ordinary party fighters, into parliamentary bands with a humiliating mission of "where to send". It's on the one side. On the other hand, it all shows that the presidential election campaign did not in its essence constitute a means of democratic change for the head of state. Upon entering into a frenzy, candidates began to forget that we had only the election of the President, not a king or a tyrant. To be honest, if you didn't know that Napoleon was born in Corsica, you might seriously think that the homeland of all, figuratively speaking, Napoleons in the world is exclusively Ukraine. The people are promised everything in the vocabulary of the candidate and his team. And all the responsibility for the situation in the country is transferred to Parliament, transforming it into a boy to be beaten. But the presidential candidates somehow forgot that such a situation within the legislative body was due to their meaningful activities. In Ukraine, a whole range of bodies are chosen by the people, both by local councils and by the heads of the territorial communities and by the President. But only the Supreme Council can claim the status of a mirror of society and the fight for the destruction of parliamentaryism is not just a ploy of this reflection, that is, a public opinion, that is, in fact, a ploy of society itself. Because, on the one hand, the very idea of national representation is being eradicated, and on the other hand, the constant conflicts, including in Parliament, are fostering the right opposition in society. Conclusion one. How paradoxically this does not sound, but the fate of this Supreme Council is actually in the hands of the Supreme Council itself, and more specifically, in the heads of those who are aware of what Parliament is meant to be, what is the value of parliamentaryism for freedom and progress, and what willful efforts must be made to ensure that the national electorate is, first, really national, and secondly, really elected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u7	Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, please, from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine opens. At the same time, the attention of the entire population of Ukraine is tied to an electoral campaign that is, unfortunately, already dirty and cynical. At the same time, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko in the Supreme Council advocates the building of a stable, responsible system of government. This is only possible if the objective will of our citizens — honest and transparent choices — takes place without strong interference in the election process, without criminality, without falsification. Only honest government can rely on the people and be accepted by the world community. The way the Party of Regions is running its electoral campaign today testifies to the unwillingness of our opponents to hold honest, open and transparent elections. That's why Janukovich's entire hope of falsifying the election results. And most of all, what is impeding the Party of Regions and Victor Yanukovic today to make plans to distort the choice of citizens and to apply mass forgery is the parity of the formation of electoral committees of different levels. It was this basic principle of fair, honest, open, and transparent elections that was chosen in a difficult election in 2004. So right now, the Party of Regions is trying to destroy it. By using the majority in the Central Electoral Commission and by trying to form a more corrupt, rather than democratic, majority in the Supreme Council, they want to destroy this cornerstone of the protection and objectivity of the elections of the Ukrainian people. Close to the Party of the Regions, most of the members of the Central Electoral Commission show that they attended Mr. Kiwalov's good school. Obedient members of the CTC are trying to accept such clarifications into the law that would create the maximum obstacles to the normal functioning of members of the election committees from the candidate to the President of the Yulia Timoshenko. We warn you that any attempt to move in this direction makes elections illegal, illegal, and the result is that they do not reflect the real choice of the Ukrainian people. We call on our colleagues from the Party of the Regions to stop the provocations and attempts of dishonesty. Although your ability to fight honestly the entire country could be seen during the presidential debate yesterday on the National Channel. In front of Julia Timoshenko was to stand candidate Viktor Janukovic, who had the opportunity in an honest and open discussion all his remarks to tell her in front of her, but instead, across from Julia Timoshenko was an empty place. The same price is for all your empty accusations and promises. You are panickingly afraid of honest and open opposition. All that's done to you in public is to be poured with dirt, or openly, a cynical lie. Your fear of open confrontation shows your uncertainty about your own candidate and your deep doubts about the victory of Viktor Yanukovich. What you bring to the capital of Ukraine is paid off supporters who fill sanatoriums and profiles around Kiev, your tents with an unswerving contingent and are the clearest testimony to your unwillingness to an honest and open fight in the elections. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, you have not been able to understand that the terms “freedom of choice”, “democracy”, “freedom of speech” are not just words that should be spoken at the right time from television screens, this concept has long become an integral part of the life of most Ukrainian citizens. You don't want to believe that, and you think that the election can be won with your old, tested methods of the 2004 model. Your attempts to destabilize society, capture the courts, state institutions, intimidate the Hen Prosecutor's Office, which has long been uninhibited by political engagement, trying to demoralize the IMF's individual composition and the expectation that they will cease to perform their professional duties, are all futile attempts that will not bring victory to either you or Victor Yanukovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u9	We invite Mikola Martinenko, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Next is Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u10	Dear Head, dear colleagues! We are opening a new session of the Supreme Council five days before the second round of presidential elections. Although it will go well after the election. But we need to look not only 5 days ahead, but also at the prospect. After the elections, life will not end for any political power, especially Ukraine and Ukraine. Yes, Parliament is now too politicized, but before the elections, let's not involve the judiciary in politics any more, let's not discuss personnel issues. In particular, the decision to resign the Supreme Court will call for only a new wave of opposition. Let's put all the personnel topics aside for then, only a few days left before the election. The new president will come -- let him come along with the coalition and do the personnel remodeling. Political interdisciplinaries have led many, indeed, serious problems into the background. It's not just an economy. The weather may give Ukraine new unpleasant surprises. Experts, for example, once again predict large floods in Western Ukraine. If necessary, Parliament should be ready to engage immediately in the fight against natural disasters and allocate the necessary funds. Unfortunately, during the electoral campaign, the Supreme Council forgot its primary responsibility to draft and adopt laws. We simply have no right to postpone further legal work. Let's not wait for the inauguration of the new president. Hundreds of current bills, including dozens from the previous session, await approval. At the beginning of the last session, the Head of the Supreme Council proposed that all bills of deputies from all factions that have been registered to date be brought before it. I think this idea is a constructive compromise, let's do it now. Now, about the agenda for the next session week. I'm going to celebrate some of the bills from the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", which are already included in the agenda. First of all, this is a draft of the Tax Code prepared by the deputy of our faction, Nicholas Catherinechuk. We've talked so much about this document, but the Supreme Council still can't approve it, even though there's no politics. The tax code is called upon to bring the Ukrainian tax system closer to European patterns, to simplify it, and to make it transparent and clear. This will allow you to increase your budget. The name of some other laws from our faction have been called upon to bring our state closer to civilized standards is the amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice proposed by the deputies Stetsky and Stretovich. A key point is the introduction of the principle of mandatory delivery of a copy of the court decision after its announcement, the Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk bill, which provides for the right of citizens to appeal to the court in the interests of its members. Finally, one request to all colleagues, I've already spoken about it on the Conciliation Council, the agenda for today is Order No. 5396, which provides for the membership of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of the Deputies of Our Faction Alexander Babilov. I don't think there's any doubt about his professionalism. He has appropriate experience and training. I'm asking all the factions to raise all the politics and vote in favour so that our colleague can work fully where he will benefit the country most. Our task with you is to work fully and effectively on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u11	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, identifying their relevance to the list of draft laws and regulations proposed for consideration at the sixth session, the Company's faction was based on the following threatening circumstances. Ukraine entered the following year in a context of deep economic stagnation, postponed social crisis and external economic isolation. The total consumption of the core foundations of the basic industries is: in the mining and metallurgical complex, 80 per cent of the total, 54 per cent of the cox batteries, 89 kilns, 87 martens, 90 per cent of the rent; in the chemical industry, some 70 per cent of the major funds are carried out, with Himprom almost entirely dependent on foreign raw materials, factory warehouses being killed by the product and farmers producing mineral fertilizers 10-14 times less than normal. So far, it's a machine-building facility. The logistics base of the machinery is also 70 per cent. Engineers are generally uncompetitive in both the external and the internal markets. As a result of last year, production dropped by 45 per cent. In 11 months, 1.2 thousand tractors were collected when Ukraine collected more than 100,000 tractors in the 1990s. In the agri-industrial complex, core funds also accounted for 90 per cent. In the village, you won't be able to meet a tractor brigade or a working farm. In 51 per cent of the village there are no schools, 80 per cent libraries and clubs. Of the 4 million 800,000 jobs left, 690 remained. The village has ceased to be a raw base for processing, and Polish powder milk is produced in Ukraine, sausage from Argentine, Australian or Brazilian beef. As at 1 December 2009, the head of the cattle was 5.3 million. I would like to draw your attention from my distinguished colleagues: this is less than in 1934, that is, after the famine, but that Ukraine did not have five Western areas. The sugar industry is in a catastrophic state. Of the 531 million tons of metal-fond, 331 million tons have already been worn out. A particularly catastrophic situation in the housing and utility complex, where 60 per cent of the fund was exhausted by 100 per cent. This should be added to the fact that the 2009 budget is broken, that expenditure is financed through the IMF tranche, that the overall economic outlook for the 2010 budget is devastating, production declines, and also taxes that have not been deducted for three months, i.e. for 2010. The punishment is empty, the power is dead. The banking system has become a mafia clan, killing the manufacturer with crazy credit rates: up to 30 per cent in crisis. By the way, the banking mafia is headed by a citizen of Yushchenko and the government has lost control of the public finances system. There was a real threat to the country of social infrastructure paralysis. Debt on salary is 2 billion grevens. There is a delay in the payment of pensions in many regions. Unemployment is projected to reach 3.5 million by the end of the year. At the same time, the State Pension Fund on the verge of bankruptcy and a third depends on the State budget. The freezing of the income of workers and pensioners against the backdrop of a steady rise in prices and tariffs increases the number of citizens below the poverty line. Total corruption, poverty and injustice, selling courts and the arbitrary will continue to dramatically exacerbate social tensions. Thus, the sixth session should provide an answer to the ways and mechanisms for dealing with very serious problems. The country is in default. In 2010, we will have to pay back the interest and loan body $30 billion. At the current rate, it's 240 billion grevens. It is clear that traditional liberal methods cannot only be addressed, but also dangerous. And the President's recent decrees on the assignment of the Hero of Ukraine to Bandera, and even more so the legalization of the bandits, indicate that we, especially the President's Administration, have authority as “Paragraph No. 6”. The country faces the threat of a systemic socio-economic and humanitarian disaster. Measures should be adequate. We propose that they be anti-catastrophically marked, not to serve the interests of oligarchs, but to protect the interests of citizens. To this end, it is necessary to decide that bank loans amount to 3-5 per cent. Eliminate value added tax, introduce a monopoly on vodka and tobacco, gas and oil production, implement grain abroad, suspend the entry into force of the WTO Act, and impose the death penalty for particularly dangerous crimes. The Company's faction suggests that the number of projects under consideration should be abandoned and that it should be based on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u13	Finish up, please. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich of the factions of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! We now have not only an important one, but a responsible and somewhat phased session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Not only because this session will lead to the oath of the new President of Ukraine, but also because during this session, a new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be formed in this session and a new composition of the coalition will be formed. What will be the face of Ukrainian authority depends largely on not only those in the session hall today but, above all, the citizens of Ukraine. I can say that the faction of the Party of Regions, like its leader and future president, will ensure a return to the rule of law at all levels. What we now have is a powerful testimony to how the standards of law are being humiliated and ignored. Today, February 2, we open the next session of Parliament, and we find that in February, there is not only an actual State budget in the country, but not even a project. How can constitutional prescriptions be ignored, and the administration of a country that has been fully transferred to manual management for the purpose of providing electoral campaigns? These are unacceptable things. Similarly, it is unacceptable that many laws are ignored in the country and, above all, laws that ensure that minimum wages, pensions, and social standards are raised. What we have today is hundreds of judicial decisions that require us to make calculations and pay off what is not paid by the current executive authority. And if we look at order, in paws, in those bodies that are supposed to protect citizens' rights and stand on the watch of the law, that is a testimony to the full abuse of the law. If today we have the Prime Minister's announcement that there is a person who seems to be in charge of the Ministry of Internal Affairs after being released by Parliament from office, the question arises who appointed this person? If the Cabinet of Ministers did so, why did no one see the act of appointment? If it is said that it cannot be stopped because it is not there; if there is no such act, why does it even enter the Ministry? This is the presence of separation in the head, that is, it controls, but there is no act. This is the case with the head of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea when orders are issued to the one-timer in order to give to the court that he does not work in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, and on the second day it turns out that there was no such order. We must not abuse the law and the law in this way. I think we should make sure that the law in Ukraine regulates all social relations. And we're going to ensure this, we're not going to let the election go down, we're not going to let the citizens' will go down. The fact that much has been emphasized today is that there is a desire for someone to influence the results. There's only a desire to protect the will of the citizen, that the will of the citizen be realized in decisions that will be taken by those electoral commissions that won't be able to paralyze a quorum, as is already done in the Donetsk region and in the Crimea, or any other action. We're going to solve this issue legislatively in this room and we're going to ensure an honest and transparent election campaign. We must ensure and ensure the transition to a new quality of Ukrainian power without social shocks. We need an active authority that respects the law, we need the only assembly in Ukraine, where order is provided by law that is one for all: both for power, and for society, without any preference. I want us to be governed by law and conscience, and this will be a path that will allow us to get out of the political opposition with honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the suggestions made in the speeches made by the national MPs, I have traditionally asked the secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions for them to be examined and resolved, I mean proposals, statements and reports that have been made in the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs. Dear National Deputies! We have to make a decision on the order of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. I ask, honourable national MPs, to prepare themselves for the consideration of this matter. At the meeting of the Conciliation Board, we discussed approaches to making a decision on the matter. I will put to the vote the approval of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account all the addenda that are in the draft agenda, as required by the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please note, I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the order of the day of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. [[Registration number 6029]] Please vote. [[10:45:38]] For 386 In general, with all the apps, I said that, with all the apps. ‘For’ – 386. Dear colleagues, the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the sixth vocation was adopted in general with all the accessories. Yes, honourable national deputies, the draft Ordinance on the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission is now under review. You've been given material on your appointment as a member of the Central Electoral Commission of Osadchuk Alexander Kuzmovich. Is there a need to discuss this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u16	You don't? We, as agreed, are honourable national deputies, all documents are drawn up, you're given, you've had an opportunity to get to know them. I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the appointment of Alexander Osadchuk as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Registration number 609]] Please vote. [[10:46:58]] For 372 Alexander Kuzmich Osadchuk was thus appointed as a member of the Central Election Commission. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Central Election Commission”, a member of the Commission, before taking office, shall make an oath at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A member of the Central Electoral Commission, Alexander Kuzmić Osadchuk, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please. Yes, please, Alexander Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u17	Thank you. I, Osadchuk Alexander Kuzmić, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Election Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position. To be honest, objective, and open - minded in dealing with issues that are part of the commission’s mandate, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the rights to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u18	Yes, let's welcome Alexander Kuzmić, distinguished colleagues. We wish you fruitful work in strict compliance with the laws of Ukraine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u20	All of it. Thank you. And give us this document, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" asks to postpone consideration of the decision to be elected to the committee of the Ukrainian National Deputy, this is registration number 5396. There is still a need for further consultations among factions on this issue in order to make a positive decision. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to adopt two draft decrees for the award of the prizes and the appointment of named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 5384, 5385. The reporter is Teether Mikhailo Vasilovich. Is there a Mikhail Vasilovich? Please, come on, dear fellows, this is how we do it if you don't mind. We'll listen to the information on the two draft regulations, and then we'll vote individually. No objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u22	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! As you know, in 2007, the Supreme Council passed a decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine prizes for the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research. Each year, 20 people are awarded such a prize, which has been marked by their achievements in science. The first job competition was held in 2008 when more than 60 jobs were put on and 39 were admitted and missed by the Special Expert Commission of 20 people. However, for various reasons to this day, these 20 people have not received a bonus. Now 39 jobs are being submitted for the 2009 competition. This is done by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine – 13 jobs, higher education institutions of the Ministry of Education and Science – 15 jobs, the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences – 4 jobs, the Academy of Education – one job, the Ministry of Interior – 4, and 23 jobs by district councils. A list of the 2009 Supreme Council of Ukraine presented at the 2009 Prize was published in the Voice of Ukraine on July 29, 2009, as well as published on the Committee's website. The work promoted by the claimants is relevant and is in line with the requirements and regulations of the Supreme Council. There were no negative reactions to these jobs. The expert work was carried out by famous scientists, experts in the respective fields of science, who were included in a competitive commission approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On November 12, 2009, a competitive commission held a meeting to discuss these materials and discussed the materials presented by experts. According to expert evaluation and discussion, 20 out of 39 jobs were recognized for the Supreme Council award to the most talented young scientists. These 20 jobs are included in the draft decree that you're given. Let me remind you that the National Academy is doing 8 jobs, the Ministry of Education and Science -- 5 jobs, the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences -- 3 jobs, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences -- 1 job, the Ministry of Internal Affairs -- 1 job, and the district councils -- 2 jobs. The Committee on Science and Education, at its meeting, reviewed the decision of the competitive commission and the draft of the stated decision and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. It takes 400,000 dollars to implement the decree. I propose to support the committee's decision and to take this decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u23	Let's do it the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u24	Since 2008, in line with the Supreme Council's ruling, 30 named scholarships are awarded to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not prizes, but scholarships: 10 scholarships of 2,000 dollars per month for young scientists, doctors of science, and 20 scholarships of 2,000 dollars per month for young scientists, candidates for science that have prepared doctoral dissertations. What Does Young Scientists Mean? Age up to 35 years old. Let me remind you that the first 20 scholarships were awarded and paid in 2008. In 2009, not 30 scholarships had been awarded, but only 14 scholarships had been awarded, unfortunately there were no such scholars. And 17 jobs were put out for the Supreme Council's nominations in 2010 by the Ministry and the Academy -- a little more than half of the 30 that are allowed. The list of these works was also published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine on July 29, 2009. Jobs submitted by claimants are relevant and are in line with the demands and positions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there has been no negative response to these works. All the works presented to the Corps were considered by experts and supported by a competitive commission that met on November 12, 2009. The Committee on Science and Education, at its meeting, reviewed the decision of the Competition Commission and the draft of the proposed decision, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take it as a basis and in these fractures. The implementation of the decree requires 408,000 dollars. These funds are provided annually by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the drafting of the State Budget Act. I propose to support the committee's decision and to take this decision as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, questions, objections, no suggestions. You don't? Yes. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u26	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. This decision must certainly be approved, we vote. But that's what upsets us. There were no additions to the agenda for the entire session yesterday. Today they have appeared. And as a result, a friendly, including the BUT faction voted in favour of removing absolutely needed bills from the agenda: “To perpetuate the memory of those who died as a result of military and political repression”, the draft Law on the Prohibition of Communist Ideology, the draft Law on Illustration, the draft Act on the Recognition of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army by a Hostile, the draft Law on Recognition. [[Member of the Hare]] [[Member of the Hare]] [[Ms Jojika]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u27	Dear colleague, the Supreme Council has approved with all the accessories, no one has removed anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u28	I've approved with the apps, and this is Appendix 2, which deletes these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u29	The Supreme Council of Ukraine approved all the apps, and no one removed anything. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u30	I quote, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Appendix 2: List of Bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u31	I'm asking you again. I stressed before the vote and after the vote: The Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the whole package, with all the accessories. Please, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u32	Vladimir Mikhailovich, if I'm wrong, I'll apologize, but I want to clarify for the transcript. Do your words mean that Appendix 2 -- a list of bills that, on the proposals of individual factions, have been removed from the draft agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council -- has not been voted on? Has it been voted out and these bills deleted?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-02-m0.u33	The Supreme Council of Ukraine fully approved this package, with all its accessories. I proposed before voting that I put to the vote a whole package, with all the accessories. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't vote, then we'll go to the polls. But almost 400 votes were cast with all the accessories, the document was approved with all the plugins, I emphasize, with all of them. Any other questions, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies? You don't? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these documents? None. Please have a seat, Mikhail Vasilovich. I'm going to put each one separately as a basis and as a whole. No warning? May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal for a committee on adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2009. [[Registration number 5384]] Please vote. [[10:58:47]] For 348 Decision taken. I now put to the vote for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the appointment in 2010 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominations for the most talented young scientists. [[Registration number 5385]] Please vote. [[10:59:23]] For 335 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues that we have identified for consideration at the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is exhausted. According to the calendar plan for our work, we are meeting only this morning. The next few days are work on committees, factions, and directly from, in the territories, in the districts. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the requirement of 166 Ukrainian National Deputies, the Party of the Regions will meet tomorrow. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on one issue, which concerns the amendment of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, since there are certain coalitions, will depend on the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next, I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that there is also a proposal: to hold an extraordinary meeting on Thursday and Friday. I'm making such an offer to you that you don't sign or make the right decision. If so, then let us make adjustments to the calendar work plan and hold meetings. I would like to make an understanding of such an offer. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job.
