ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:00]] They registered cards in the 409 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Sigala Evgen Yakovitch (by the way, he has a Jubilee), as well as Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them life's strength. [[Applause]] I give you information, honourable national deputies, on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on May 18th. Twenty questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, three laws were passed, five bills were passed on the basis, one bill was sent for re-reading, and five bills were rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, 1 law was passed after the revision, that is, in a new edition. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with applications, reports, or requests. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next will speak Alexy Plotnikov refers to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! Ukraine has been going through a very large test in the last period, and as we have stressed repeatedly in this room, the Ukrainian people, the economy with enormous potential have become hostages of the disgraceful opposition in power, especially in the last two years, and Ukraine has completed 2009 with the worst indicators of development in Europe. Today we have confirmation of the positive results that occur when the authorities start working in a consolidated way -- the President, the government, the coalition, the Parliament. And this situation has already enabled the Ukrainian industry to resume positive growth in April of this year – the growth in the Ukrainian industry by April 2010 by April 2009 was about 17 percent. It's very positive that there's a positive growth dynamic in those areas that determine Ukraine's competitiveness, which produce high-valued products technically consisting of intellectual production, and during the same period of growth in machine building, Ukraine has made up 34 percent, and it's very important that positive growth changes are taking place in April of this year in the light industry, including in areas such as transport equipment 78 percent, etc. For the first time in the last year, the growth in exports from Ukraine is greater than the increase in imports and our country’s dependence on the negative external processes is declining. At the same time, the honourable national MPs, the faction of the Party of the Regions, I am confident that this is a position that all responsible high-level and national deputies, and society as a whole, need to address together. It's the first thing to do is to complete the clearing of the collapses on the issue of the return of the negative tax surplus to the added value, which is what's left of the previous government structure of about 31 billion dollars owed the State to taxpayers. It is very important to put together a common order in the public procurement system, from the point of view of the effectiveness of anti-corruption resources. Support for small and medium-sized businesses, huge issues of restoring access and citizens of Ukraine, and industry to credit resources. We call for a united effort, an assessment of power, that is, first and foremost, an increase in the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u3	Instead of Mikola Rudchenk, Oleg Zarubinsky, the Lithuanian Block, will be speaking. Get ready for Denkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Everyone knows in this room, I hope that investment is the engine of economic development. So the fact that foreign investment is declining at any time in Ukraine is an alarming signal to the economy. During 2009, 192 billion dollars were invested in our country, almost 80 billion dollars less than in 2008. This significant decline in investment is caused not only by the global economic crisis but also by the whole range of domestic problems in Ukraine. The main problem is the absence of a favourable investment climate in our country. The reasons for Ukraine’s investment unattractiveness are the political instability that has been observed in recent years, the high level of corruption, the imperfect tax system. At the level of corruption, our country holds 134 seats from 180 countries in the world rating. In recent years, the average level of bribes has increased from 15,000 to 40,000. At the expense of time and resources, the Ukrainian tax system has 181 seats from 183 countries. Businesses in Ukraine have to pay 147 taxes and congregations and spend more than 736 hours doing so. The factors listed are very burdensome for both domestic and foreign entrepreneurs. Potential investors do not feel that their capital will be protected, and the investment will be saved and will generate income. As a result, there is a barrier to increasing investment in Ukraine. At the same time, the domestic economy is increasingly in need of foreign capital. The basic production funds of Ukrainian enterprises are all known here, with an average of 80 percent. The introduction of new technologies is halted. Production capacity is not increasing. As a result, Ukrainian production is becoming increasingly competitive in the world market. Ukraine is to become an investment attractive country. To do this, you need to create clear and transparent rules on the home market that are the same for everyone. Tax and Investment Codes must be adopted. Because it is necessary to regulate not only the tax system but also the terms and conditions for investing in the economy. There should also be a high-quality investment infrastructure, a system not only of banks, but also of commodity and currency markets, which would be an effective tool for servicing investors. It needs to be made clear that only complex and consistent steps in this area will allow for greater investment and create conditions for economic development and for people's well-being. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u5	Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. The next one will be Leluk instead of Potapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Since 1998, our country has been implementing a programme to support individual housing in the village of Own House. Since 2000, despite financial difficulties, the government has found funding for the program each year. During this time, 62,000 rural families have been loaned from the government budget for 404 million dollars and more than 1 million square feet [1 million sq m] of housing has been introduced. Support for the government budget funding programme has a significant incentive effect on investment in rural development. So one bracelet of credit from the budget is directed at another half-and-two bracelets at the expense of local budgets at Attractive sources of finance and population funds. In doing so, the extent to which core funds are put into operation exceeds twice the amount of loans granted. However, only 17 percent of farmers’ credit costs are provided. The 2010 State Budget project, submitted by the Government of Timoshenko, envisioned a total of 150 million dollars from the Stability Fund for an agro-industry complex for state-owned loans to individual rural builders, as well as 40 million dollars from the Special Fund, i.e. on the basis of the repayment of previously granted loans. However, the State Budget 2010 Act, submitted by the government of Azarov, approved the programme for only 40 million dollars from the Special Fund. Despite the fact that the 2010 government budget for the agro-industry complex has approved more than 3 billion dollars of monetary policy, according to the information I own on the distribution of this amount, there is absolutely no funding available for the budget programme for the granting of state aid to individual farmers. Such decisions will not allow peasants to enter into their homes in accordance with contractual arrangements and will lead to the conclusion of this important program for the village. In view of what I have put forward, I am asking the government, the Prime Minister, with a proposal to provide as a minimum, 100 million dollars for the budget programme “State aid for the loans of individual farmers” under the corresponding distribution of the State Budget Stability Fund for 2010 for the agro-industrial complex. Please consider this my MP's request. I would also like to remind you that during the election campaign, Presidential candidate Yanukovic promised to gasify every village, to conduct a road, and so forth. It is for Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic’s pre-election program that he proposes to channel these funds to support the peasants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u7	People's deputy Leluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Victor Terrence will be next instead of Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished voters, colleagues. Today, to further advance the energy sector of Ukraine, everything must be done to maximize the energy potential and resources of the Russian Federation. When opponents say that political secession with Russia and the Ukrainian-Russian strategic partnership is not in Ukraine's interest, let them see how the international community appreciates friendship with the Russian Federation by rejecting populism and empty language on the subject of betrayal. Having a good relationship with Russia is already a global trend in diplomacy. Ukrainian patriotism should not be an insult to the neighbour's country, but, as European leaders have done, it is a top priority to have a normal dialogue with that country as much as possible in the areas of action. A real example of a brilliant foreign policy that puts the interests of its own State first is that of Turkey, a NATO member country devoting its territory to the construction of the Russian Federation's nuclear power plant blocks, which will be the property of the Russians. Similarly, Ukraine, without taking into account the positions of the neighbouring State, is virtually impossible today to build its real strategy for the near future, as well as a holistic foreign policy doctrine. And in economic matters, it's probably the only way out of stagnation. Today, the new leadership of the country needs Titanic efforts to create the image of Ukraine as a stable, predictable and cooperative Power. In this format, the establishment of relations with the Russian Federation is a fundamental foundation. And the faction of the Party of the Regions fully supports the actions of the President and the Government of Ukraine. In this regard, I am convinced that, today, in the context of the ongoing global economic crisis, there is no more important issue in our bilateral relations with Russia than investment and trade and economic cooperation. Especially in the nuclear field, in the energy sector, in the machinery and in the aviation sector, in the oil and gas transport sector. Today, Ukraine's economy is already receiving economic dividends from signed gas agreements with the Russian Federation. And cooperation projects on aviation and nuclear energy, as well as other sectors of Ukraine and Russia, will necessarily be signed by specialists after detailed work. But by adopting them, we will do everything we can to ensure that Ukraine's interests are respected and that the country benefits as much as possible from cooperation. In our time, Russia and I were in one economic system and so integrated that the shock of unwarranted politics still affects the development of Ukraine's economy. Therefore, it becomes increasingly clear that we simply do not have alternatives to friendship, cooperation and cooperation with Russia. Otherwise, Ukraine will remain on the sidelines of political and economic European development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u9	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. The next one will be Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u10	Last Sunday, Ukraine celebrated the Day of Remembrance of Victims of Political Repression. Anyone who did not want to live by Communist recipes at the time was deprived of the right to life itself. For each area and for each area, gunfire limits were lowered and socialist battles on the detection of the enemies of the people began, and plans for shootings were overturned. And then, by the NKVD of Ukraine, Israel of Leplewski three times appealed to the CTC party to increase the limit on the shootings, and Israel’s request to Leplewski three times was granted in Moscow. We also remember the victims of 50 or 80 years. But let us not forget that it was not us who had terror in Ukraine. That this terror was brought upon the Bolshevik bayonets of red Moscow, before which power is so pervasive today. Sadly, today’s authorities are acting on the totalitarian standards of the Bolsheviks. And, as it was written in the “Village of the Week”, today everything in Ukraine flows like blood from slow veins. And an example of this is the violent activity, for example, of the same Tobacco that reincarnated the soul of Ukraine’s Kaganovich. And this is an attempt to quit playing the MPs of Paris and Grimchak. And when he wasn't scared, he started to be completely permanently arrested and provoked by his sister. And we're demanding that the Attorney General's Office be submitted to all those who brutally beat Donnie and the other deputies, to all the criminal authorities that were there and beat the MPs. And are they not reprisals today for the mass liberation of people from work in times of crisis? What are you talking about today? Last night was the right thing to say in this room. But the prosecution is busy with others today. The D.A. today has arranged a competition with each other when every claimant on the Attorney General's desk swears Janukovich himself to put Timoshenko in jail, make me the Attorney-General. And that's what the world sees. And here's what it says about what's going on in Ukraine. Let's say the same Wilfred Martens, this is a party that includes Sarkozy and Angela Merkel, and without agreeing with which he would never make such a sharp statement about events in Ukraine. That's what the world says. I quote. “It is very sad and unpleasant to see how the current government destroys and ignores the democratic achievements of the previous government. In the Ukrainian Parliament, in an unconstitutional way, they formed the majority and created an illegal government. There is a clear evidence of political manipulation, judicial manipulation. One powerful example was the discovery of a criminal case based on political motives against Timoshenko." End of quote. I'll just add one. All of this is done by the sole heirs of those who have committed repression, famines, and those who bless the construction of the cannibalisimus monuments of Stalin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u11	Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. The next will be Viacheslav Kirilenko, who is given the right to speak by Mikola Kulczynski to him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u12	Dear fellow countrymen! Andrew Pavlovsky. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that all of us have witnessed, as in recent weeks, the ruling coalition led by the Party of Regions has in fact not supported any social initiative by President Yanukovic's candidate. Almost all social laws were rejected. As an example, the Party of Regions did not support its own amendment bill to the National Pension Insurance Act, which helped raise some categories of pensioners. [[on the insurance internship]] It is also now the attempt of the Party of the Regions to withdraw its own bill amending the Housing Minimum Act, which is designed to implement the Constitutional Court's decision that the subsistence minimum should be increased to the amount of the citizen's income tax. The government coalition did not support the bill granting pensions to Ukrainian citizens working abroad. A bill was also put in place to grant many families the right to receive extended loans for the purchase of housing. It was also a shameful bill, which predicted that if bankruptcy, debt, bankruptcy were to occur, the company would first pay the employee's wages. In general, it is a shameful fact that after the celebration of May 9, the Party of the Regions did not support a bill amending the Nazi Persecution Victims Act, which envisioned a small increase in pensions for juvenile prisoners in Nazi camps. And I would like to draw the attention of our respected war veterans. Despite the pompous measures and advice that the authorities have given, journalists say that more than 75 million bracelets have been significantly reduced and the situation of these war veterans has deteriorated. In particular, by order of the government of Yanuković, the decree of war invalids reduced the financial assistance to 5 May, from 5,000, 180 dollars, which the government of Timoshenko had foreseen, to thousands of dollars. [[299]] I would also like to point out that the 2010 budget reduced by 19 million the amount envisaged for the purchase of travel for war veterans. Another gift to war veterans was that 6 million dollars in the budget had been cut in the cost of purchasing cars for veterans and war invalids. Thus, we have the authority, as if it were to care for the people, that is to say, to give up his promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Next is Odarchenko instead of Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u14	Viacheslav Kirilenko, group “For Ukraine”. Statement by the parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine” is strongly protesting the criminal persecution of the regime of Yanukovitch of opposition national MPs, Andrija Parubia and Yuri Grimchak. The violation of the criminal case against Paris and Grimczak is an open attempt to intimidate the patriotic forces. Another highly cynical, steel - based way of such intimidation was the arrest of a younger sister named Andria Parobia, by the way, the mother of a two - year - old child, who was taken into custody on the morning of May 18 for a crudely fabricated accusation and is still being held in custody. Since last night, Sister Andrea Parbia has been transferred to an ambulance hospital under the supervision of doctors and thus far, but during the night and for this second, police officers are lining up at the hospital. That is why the detention of Sister Andria Paruba continues, and we regard it as the beginning of widespread political repression against opposition and members of opposition families. At the same time, it became clear that Yanukovic’s policy was to intimidate all those who opposed his anti - Ukrainian position and the surrender of national interests. Persecution of people who opposed Sevastopol’s illegal surrender and their families is a powerful example of political repression in Ukraine. The law enforcement authorities do not even try to bring responsibility to those who occupied the positions of opposition and to the deputies themselves from the opposition to the beastly bulls, causing them numerous bodily harm. All the attention of the law enforcement agencies is focused solely on the persecution of people who have defended Ukraine’s national interests and the use of the most disgusting, openly Stalinic methods to combat them. The “For Ukraine!” group calls for an immediate end to political persecution and for the responsibility of the organizers and perpetrators of these persecutions, including the organizers and perpetrators of the dirty provocation against the Ukrainian National Deputy’s own sister, Andria Paruba. We also claim that pressure and intimidation will not keep us quiet and put our hands down, we will not stop fighting to protect Ukraine and Ukraine’s national interests. After us, Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u15	Welcome to Odarchenk's presentation, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Next is Yuri Gnatkevitch, instead of Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I also want to return to the events in the Supreme Council walls that took place on April 27th. You and I are witnessing that today there is an open intimidation of opposition. We've heard from the previous speaker that there are methods of even intimidating relatives today, that the closest relatives of Paris are now under arrest, and Grimchak is being persecuted. Dear colleagues, this is one side of the medal and I want to go back to the other side of the medal and turn to the leadership of the Party of Regions and one of the active participants in these events of the National MP from the Party of the Regions of Stelmashenko Vasil Petrovich. For most national MPs, the activity of Stelmashenko before his office is well known, I'm sure, for a large part of Ukrainian citizens. To make sure that's enough to look at the relevant websites. Law enforcement agencies have been actively involved in Stemashenko, who is today a national deputy, representing the people of Ukraine from the Donetsk region, and they have been engaged since 1983, when he became a figure of the broken criminal case under the article “Scheme”. The following years were particularly beneficial for enriching the criminal biography of a respected national deputy from the Party of Regions known in the Ukrainian and Russian criminal world under the name “Kartava”. In particular, in the 1990s he was one of the most influential organized criminal groups in the Donetsk region of Kushner brothers, who were involved in the murder of Vadim Gethman, Eugene Schhrbane, and former president of the Shakhtar football club, Ahatiya Bragina, known as Alik Grek. Dear friends, why should the Party of Regions have such national deputies as Stelmashenko? Clearly, not to adopt honest and just laws, the fists of such national deputies work better than their heads. Especially on April 27, a series of national deputies arrived from Stelmashenko in the wake of the walls of the Supreme Council. Our colleague Donny is in the hospital today under a serious diagnosis, and God forbid, he'll come out of there with a disability. Today I turned to the Ukrainian Security Service, the prosecutor's office, to bring this deputy to justice. But unfortunately, the kind of operationality that we have with Grimchak and Perubia is not. This question is not being investigated today. Imagine a man who's 60 years old comes to Parliament on the third day, he beats several deputies in a beastly way, he makes them disabled. Is he an adequate person or not? Besides drawing him to responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Yuri Gnatkevitch, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Shentz will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u18	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, my colleague Taran spoke of the authorities starting repression against the opposition. Andrew Pavlovski spoke of the fact that we had essentially no left - hand movement in Ukraine. And I'm not implying to you, but I'm telling you, we don't have an order in the Supreme Council. We have a general blight, impunity of deputies and a lack of action that they do not go to meetings as public officials, as the national deputies of Ukraine. And something Vladimir Mikhailovich used to do -- I didn't get paid in one day. But, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we barely have one third of the deputies in this room who need this pay! If they don't walk, and you do the math, they don't need it. We have a big business wing problem. It is the business wing of the Supreme Council that violates current legislation. I want to remind them, article 78 of the Constitution of Ukraine: that a national MP cannot engage in any other kind of paid or entrepreneurial activity, except, let's say, teaching, creative and so on. And don't go on the board of enterprises or organizations that have the goal of making a profit. And yet we have a large number of deputies, not just weeks and months, but years away from attending meetings of the Supreme Council. Sometimes you can't adopt a law, not because it's a bad law, but because no one can vote, your hands aren't enough. I would like to quote you and not just the Constitution, article 3 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, where it is also emphasized that a deputy cannot be part of the management of the government or the management of enterprises, institutions, organizations that are profitable. But they don't go to work, they become honorable, and in fact, they probably put their signatures under their documents, under their financial documents. The Anti-Corruption Act, article 5 of this law also refers to the same positions. Dear colleagues! I will return you to the Constitution of Article 81. When can we take out the MP? There are seven positions. That's when he wrote his own statement when he died. And there's another interesting position: when the MP is clearly missing. This turns out to be an indistinguishable absence when, over the course of the year, he is invisible to the place where he lives. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! If he's clearly gone a year, he's gone, maybe we'll look for him. Maybe something happened to my husband. Why don't you bring God down or something? There's no man for how many years! We don't take any action. And second position. That's if he's noticed that he's on a path that's incompatible with his mandate. If, in fact, he has a factory or he just wrote that he's honorable and actually dishonest and real, then we can look for them and start doing something through the Supreme Council and through the courts. Thank you for your attention. Until there's no order in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u19	National deputy Shenzev, faction of the Party of the Regions. The right to speak is passed on to Alexander Stoyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u20	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Social Standards Subcommittee. I specifically call this job because I've been tracking down social standards for many years. And my speech will be addressed first of all to our voters. Our colleagues now suspect that the Party of Regions, President Janukovic's candidate, is not running its pre-election program. Here's the pre-election program for President Janukovic, and here's the budget page where the basic positions of this pre-election programme are fully revealed, particularly in the social sphere. Now a few positions. The first category that goes into raising social standards is people who get the minimum wage. What I'm saying is that for the first time in terms of independence, the minimum wage this year will correspond to the per cent minimum wage per working person. In terms of money, this is how Timoshenko's government had 744 bracelets of minimum wage, 884 bracelets in the budget. I mean, from May on, people who get a salary will get an extra 140 dollars. By the end of the year, according to December of last year, the minimum wage would have increased by 178 dollars. It's very important. The second category that falls under elevated social standards is our pensioners, these are the pensioners who receive the minimum pension. I remind you that last December the government of Timoshenko paid a minimum pension of 498 dollars. And only under the pressure of our political power, our colleagues in the “Block of Lithuania”, did we establish a minimum pension of 573 bracelets that the government did not pay. Once again, as of May 1, the minimum pension will now be 706 dollars. So by now every pensioner who receives a minimum pension will have an additional 133 bracelets. And I'm going to add that our government and President Janukovic are going to make up for the promise that they're going to pay back those debts over those months that were due since November when we adopted a new minimum pension. By the end of the year, the minimum pension will be increased by 161 bracelets. The third position is to pay families with children. 130 bucks was baby-sitting, it's going to be 300 bucks. We're under the impression that we don't pay 100,000 dollars when we have a baby. But what I'm saying is, these kids haven't been born yet, just three months in power. But we are fulfilling our obligations. Olena Lukas gave birth to a second child. Lena Bondarenko is preparing to give birth to another child. So we're going to have children in nine months and we're going to be paying 100,000 next year, as recorded in the Yanukovich program. So, dear colleagues, you don't have to put a shadow on your knitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Showtime's over. With regard to the suggestions made in the presentations, in the address of the national MPs, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. And I would like, my fellow Members, to draw attention to Yuri Gnatkevitch's speech, calling on the Supreme Council to be the Supreme Council of Ukraine with only one clarification. When a respected colleague tells us that we have a powerful business wing, I think for the sake of justice we should say that we have two powerful wings. And you have to look at these two wings and be objective when you approach them. We must all be equal and be the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Let us turn to the issues set out in the schedule for today. There is a need, my fellow Members, to consider removing the disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting. [[on licensing conditions]] You've been given these suggestions. I'll read it. “On 10 March 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted simultaneously as a basis and as a whole the Act of Ukraine amending articles 32 and 33 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. An analysis of the text adopted and signed by the law shows that there are editorial inaccuracies, section 1, paragraph 2, and the apparent disagreements in articles 31 and 32 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act regarding the moment of payment of the licence assembly for the issued language license and the appropriate order of the decision-making by the National Council of Ukraine on the issue of television and radio broadcasting on the issue of such a licence. In this regard, in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, proposals are made to eliminate disagreements, contradictions, and inaccuracies in the provisions of the adopted law. First. Paragraph 1 of section 1 of the adopted law should be deleted. The other one. Subparagraph 2 of section 1 of the adopted law should read as follows: “In part six of article 33 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act 2006, N 18, page 155, replace the words and figures required by article 30 with the words and figures required by article 31. Dear colleagues, there is no objection to putting the appropriate clarifications to the vote? You don't? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:38:28]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today we have 11 questions to consider. In order for us to work productively, where we need to work, I would then ask your support to consider short-term bills. You are now proposing two draft laws amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4107]] [[concerning the determination of the amount of fines]] [[4134]] [[concerning the determination of the amount of fines]] The author of the drafts is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sanchenko Andri Vilenović, and the corresponding reports from the Committee on Law Enforcement. If you'd agreed and the author agreed, this is how we would have acted: well, we would have done reports on two bills, then co-reports separately from the committees, we would have a joint discussion, and we would have voted separately, if you agree. Can we have a brief discussion? Oh, no? Well, then let's give you a larger report, and we'll give you a brief discussion. No notice? I'll put this proposal to the vote. Please. I'm voting for a reduced procedure. The offer is, I'll put it to a vote. You make up your mind. I'm voting on my proposal, please vote. We will give the author more time to report. [[10:40:18]] For-188. Decision taken. Please, Oleg Lazko, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko. Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Here you are setting a good example for your First Deputy, who tells us that there is no motive for voting. The Head of the Supreme Council does, and the First Deputy doesn't. But I would like to say about this vote. A very important question: fines, fines, amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations, to the Criminal Code. And it seems that it is not appropriate to deal with this issue under reduced procedure, because this applies to every citizen of Ukraine, this is a question. Do you understand or not? How much for or any other violation, if he does, will pay the fine. This should be discussed in full procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u23	Mikhailo Chechetov. It's a motive, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, after the opposition supported Ukraine's off-block status yesterday, of course, we've given you even more consideration. And today, because of what you have set up, we want as much as possible, out of respect for yesterday's vote, in support of the off-block status, we want as many of your bills as possible today that you have put on the agenda to be considered and positively supported. Therefore, this consideration under the reduced procedure is a gesture of goodwill, a constructive hand, extended by the opposition coalition, to deal with your bills with you and to come to a positive conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u25	Thank you. We understand, dear colleagues. We, when we're doing a good job, can look at about 60-70 questions over the week. At the same time, my repeated attempts to put to the vote a proposal for the Supreme Council to work towards the exhaustion of all the issues identified by the timetable, on one day or another, not to receive support. Then there is the only way, please, that Andrew Vilenovich has the right to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Since 97, i.e. 13 years ago, such a unit has been used in the Code of Administrative Offences as an unnecessary minimum. At that time, the unit had a certain economic sense, so to speak, and was used by the authorities to calculate different kinds of so-called economic processes in the country. But later that unit lost its meaning and remained an abstract constant, and all the fines, all the sanctions provided for in the Code of Administrative Offences and fines provided for in the Penal Code, remained attached to this abstract unit. Naturally, life is moving forward, there is a concept such as inflation, so to speak, which has an impact on the price level, thus being indexed by wages, pensions and so on. As a result, in many cases the fines imposed on a particular offence are already absurd. I want to respond immediately to those critics who usually say how people are going to pay, it's offenders, not good citizens, it's the first. The second is that I want to emphasize. In many cases and in almost every article, fines are provided for representatives of the authorities for violations involving citizens, i.e. the protection of citizens'interests in relations with the authorities. That's what I'm trying to say. During the 13 years that the Code of Administrative Offences is based on this constant, many times there have been various amendments to the Code and it has been found that for the more serious offences, but those introduced by the articles, which were either approved by the Code or 10 years ago, for many offences there have been absurd fines and new articles, due to the later introduction, fines are much higher, although this type of offence is generally dangerous than those for which the fines have not been indexed and are already absurd. Let me give you some examples. If we are talking about the Code of Administrative Offences, for example, the production, manufacture, implementation of the agricultural product that contains chemicals above the limitable concentration level is punishable by a fine of 85 bracelets, i.e. every citizen, coming to the market or supermarket, buying food that is simply dangerous to consume, may be poisoned by him, his children, and the official, on condition that the director of the supermarket will be punished by a fine of 85 bracelets. The same applies to the sale, production, processing and marketing of radioactively contaminated foods, the fine of 255 bracelets, which is just a mockery of citizens. The next example, which is also worth sounding, is avoiding surveys and preventive treatment of patients with venereal diseases and so on. It's already a social and dangerous phenomenon. Yes, these citizens are the percentage of the percentage of the percentage, but these citizens, while avoiding treatment, are ultimately at risk to the entire population, including in domestic contacts. The next question is small thefts of personal property. That's what's most speculation about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u28	A miserable grandmother who'll pay for some chicken, almost a million. I'm telling you right now, there's nothing like it. The small ones are small, they are equally, so to speak, evaluated in this code. Important things, such as concealment from citizens or changes specifically made, are illegal changes to the Earth cadastre. But we do know how many examples, when, with the help of Earth cadastre, it is the simple citizens who have power at the level of areas, towns, villages and cities, and so on, that in fact deprives them of their legitimate rights to land. That's the basic vector in this law, so to speak. Once again, I will stress that this is the first phase, this is a fairly strong two bills, of course almost all the relevant committees will have to work on them in the second reading phase. But the key point is to redecorate fines to minimum wage. That is, to an economically sound, indexed Government established by the Government's economic value. Which will keep these amounts at a level, so to speak, current capacity to pay, so to speak, of the population at every time. I want to add a few words to the Penal Code. Of course, when I was working on these laws, they were meant to be corresponded. I mean, it can't be, I mean, conditionally, fines for trafficking in scrap metal -- both administrative and criminal. Naturally, the gravity of the difference is considered and it cannot be understood that administrative fines are higher than in criminal cases, i.e. the issue is taken into account. But I want to say what happened to the Penal Code because they did not index fines. There's been a gap in the penalty scale. If prior to the judge there was a possibility to choose conditionally on a continuous scale, in this part, fines were imposed and deprivation of liberty continued, now given that the fines had not been indexed and had become absurd, in many cases people were planted at a time when the fine could be fined. That is, some decriminalization of society. It is a matter of protecting entrepreneurs from being fined rather than planted for minor business offences. I think there's a point in that direction to change legislation in our country. And one more thing I would like to say in the process of drafting these bills. Me and my colleague, Deputy Velizhansky, who is the co-author, we wrote to every district centre, every district centre, every district and district council of letters, sent these bills and asked for their conclusions. Here are the answers. I can say that about 500 responses have been received and all the mayors, district councils, regional councils support these bills. I am here from the first stage of Harykov, Marganese, Ternopol, Uzhgorod, Donetsk City Council, Pettyachat District Council of the Dnepropetrov region, the Harciz City Council, Korosten Žitomirski, Gorlovka, Sumo City Council, the Donetsk City Council and so on and so on. Therefore, I think that we must restore to the authorities the opportunity, primarily through these changes in the law, to order our streets. Because the country is in a garbage zone today, and the administrative commissions are in fact not working. I'll get another number. Today, when the minimum fine is 17 bracelets and we have 15 bracelets, it's worth the court's decision. It's just to print this decision, seal it in an envelope and send it out, it's 15 bracelets and 17 bracelets of a fine. Today, a drunken hooligan in a trolleybus can scratch the glass, cut the seats, and the maximum fine is 51 bracelets. How much of a community enterprise will have to spend on bringing this trolleybus, bus, or tram into order? This is the protection of the legitimate interests of law-abiding citizens of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u29	Andrew, thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement for Bill 4107.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement has been considered by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shadowk, and the Velizany draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the determination of the amount of fines]] The bill provides for the application as a basic unit of administrative fines of the minimum wage to replace the 97 year-old basic unit of the non-taxable minimum income of citizens, which is the amount of 17 dollars. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that given the systemic nature of the proposed changes, their volume and the significant increase in the costs that have taken place since the adoption of the project require further work. Thus, the change in the base unit to calculate the size of the monetary charges also requires changes to other existing legislative acts, which provide for administrative responsibility in the form of a fine, the size of which is determined multiplely to the non-taxed minimum income of citizens. There is a question of making appropriate changes to the Customs Code of Ukraine, to article 22 of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. However, the bill does not provide for this. At the same time, the committee notes that the existing system of money formation, which determines the content of administrative responsibility, has now lost its effectiveness as a means of preventing wrongdoing, so it does not provide for the protection of the rule of law and requires immediate change. On the basis of the Committee's presentation, it is possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill in the first reading on the basis of its further elaboration. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik for Bill 4134, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u32	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee has considered the bill of colleagues of Saint-Senchenka and Velizhanski to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the determination of the amount of fines]] The bill provides for the application as a basic unit for the calculation of fines for the commission of minimum wages for the replacement of the 1997 basic unit for the non-taxable minimum income of citizens. According to the bill's authors, the minimum wage is more accurate than the untaxed minimum income of citizens corresponds to the dynamics of socio-economic processes, as well as to the financial content of criminal responsibility for crimes. Even though there are some comments to the bill that are expressed on the committee, the Committee has generally adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted in the first reading on the basis of further drafting of the bills on our committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National deputy of the Oily faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! One more time, a party of regions shows that it supports legislative initiatives aimed at strengthening state order. And in this respect, I want to point out that the ideology with which the authors of this bill came out is true. The point is that the essence of fines is those influences that should be in society so that the offences are as minor as possible. I mean, as they say, it's just popular for a fine to go through your pocket. To date, the basic factor as an untaxed minimum is, of course, not a regulator of social relations, because sometimes there is a lack of even the procedure of this fine to initiate and bring responsibility. Not to mention, he has absolutely no influence on the wrongdoer. So the better thing is, it's a minimum wage, which probably won't allow us to go back to changing these pieces of legislation. Because if we balance the criteria, wherever it is achieved, the fine must be of a permissive nature, and at the same time it must prevent new offences. And one more thing. The problem is not just the size of fines, the linkage to new basic factors, but the problem is that, unfortunately, many of the decisions of the courts and administrative commissions are not being implemented. That's problem number one. A lot of decisions, but it doesn't make any sense. Therefore, we need to go back to the procedure for implementing decisions as is the case in other countries where the system of applying these fines is stronger and stronger and appropriate implementing structures are in place. And that's how we support and think that re-reading is the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u35	People's MP, Timoshenko's Block. None. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u36	Thank you. In support of the author of the Bill, Andrija Vilenović, please note the following. In fact, we have long known the need to increase the fines for those who steal, bully, and so forth, since many of them are really willing to pay 17 dollars in advance and then break more, and more. However, a return to this consideration must be made before the draft law is reviewed after a re - first or second reading, so that those categories of the population that are not malicious violators do not suffer. So let's say it doesn't raise the level of fines on the road, let's say. Since many violations are included in these parts of the Code of Administrative Violations, people would not want to be harmed by those who are not evil violators, they are not thefts, but they are just good citizens, who, by chance, have become like this, not even violators, but they can be called by another word. I mean, I wish that other categories of citizens were carefully considered and we didn't impose any fines on those who can't pay them and are not guilty of the size of the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u37	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Next is Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u38	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the authors for the first time in many years that we have done a systematic analysis of even fines, even if this option is true. Look at the bill: over 200 pages of text is a serious study done, extremely serious. Of course, this project has its flaws, but the system to which the authors want to make changes has far more flaws. Because we have this approach with you: the administrative order and the tax-free minimum is applied, and the multiple attitude towards the amount of the offence – and that is what we have, and the multiple attitude towards the minimum amount of wages – is in the Employment Act, and also in the Advertising Act, and others. And we have these kinds of species. So I agree that this law -- properly recommended by the committees -- should be taken as a basis in the first reading. With article 116 of the Rules, the Rules of Procedure Act, we can always cut down, cut something off when the committees consider the profiles. What's extremely important is that since 1997, this level -- the untaxed minimum income of citizens -- has not changed. He's 17 bucks. And, indeed, many of the crimes of attraction for them have lost all meaning. It is also a matter of harm to our health as a result of the release of a product. It is vital that we take the same approach to criminal matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u40	Only by approach. Because it is bound when you have to watch when you are no longer administratively responsible, and it is more acute, elevated. So I'd like to ask those who have expressed the idea that re-reading is the first reading and so on. Re-reading means we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Mikola Kravchenko gives the right to speak to Peter Czybenko, a faction of Communists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u42	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I'll start with that. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think that the question of amending the codes, the legislation in general, and the codes in general, is not entirely appropriate. Because they are truly extremely responsible. That's the first one. The second is about substance. Uniform, uniform changes that are proposed in two codes, namely: the Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code, these changes are de facto applied to one, to the change in the calculation of fines, namely, to the replacement of the non-taxed minimum to the subsistence minimum. What can be said from this problem. Well, first of all, there is a problem, of course. But the ways we propose to solve this problem, as we believe, are not entirely correct. Let's imagine for a minute, we know that all the legislation goes through untaxed minimums as a form of fine. In some cases, in some laws it is calculated multiplely. And let's imagine when we make these changes to the two codes, there's going to be a previous regulation in the other laws, and we're going to create a discrepancy between the current legislation. So the problem is that you have to solve it in a complex way, stressing that there is a problem, you have to solve it in a complex way. And it means making changes to all the actual legislation on this one problem -- replacing an untaxed minimum with a minimum wage, that's going to be a complex approach. Because in today's situation, let's say we vote, the President will sign, and in this way we'll give birth to a disagreement in the current legislation and problems for those who work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Bills are closed. The Committee proposes that the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences be adopted as a basis. [[concerning the determination of the amount of fines]] The main scientific and expert office concluded that the bill should be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act, ** draft laws** amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the determination of the amount of fines]] [[Registration number 4107]] Please vote. [[11:05:01]] For-147 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion for a bill, registration number 4107, for a re-read. [[11:05:27]] For 362 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, on Bill 4134, the committee's conclusion. Once again, I remind you to take the basis of the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to send to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the determination of the amount of fines]] [[11:06:18]] For-127 The decision is not taken. I'm filing a second proposal for re-reading the bill, registration number 4134, for the first time again. Please vote. [[11:06:46]] For 359 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, George Carmazin for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. You know, Your Honor, if you think that maybe the truth, let the authorities raise fines, everything, but everything has to be reasonable and reasonable. So if we're talking about systemicity and one bill was proposed by the authors to amend the Code of Administrative Offences, the second draft Code, the Criminal Code. What's more systemic? Yes, there are still laws. There are laws, I've talked about some of them that I need to talk to you about. Then I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give you a commission now to the committees, along with the factions that have failed, is a faction of Communists, a faction of regions, to prepare changes, because it's a shame today to answer something to local self-government, to the citizens for those disagreements. Let them have political responsibility for what such differences are. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u45	Note accepted. In response to your request, appropriate requests will be directed to your needs. Dear colleagues! Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Yuri Anatolyevich! I don't want to agree with you. The result of 362 votes in favour showed that today's second day Parliament, rejecting all political biases leaving behind the door, behind the doors of the hall, as Alexander Nikolayevich Tkachenko said, "in the blues" leaving everything that divides us is truly working together in a productive way. And that there were issues with Minust, there were issues with the Ministry of Finance of individual deputies -- we did not reject the law. It doesn't mean we haven't voted or moved the law for five months, even in the fall. And that's literally a ten-day question. Let's get together again, take a look at this bill. But once again, I am glad that the second day in a row the hall is working productively and constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Access to Decisions. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4618]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Bogdan Volodymyrovich Hubski, co-rapporteur-in-chief of the Justice Committee Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich. At the same time, I am informing the honourable colleagues who received a letter from the Ukrainian national deputy requesting that the draft order of the bill be excluded from the draft daytime bill in view of its inability to report it. I'm voting on a motion to withdraw from this plenary session of the draft law. [[Registration number 4618]] Please identify yourself. [[11:10:25]] For 340. Decision taken. The same applies to the next bill amending some legislation in Ukraine. [[on the use in Ukraine of the work of foreigners and stateless persons]] [[Registration number 4684]] There is also an appropriate letter, an appropriate address. I'm voting on a motion to move the matter. Please identify yourself. [[11:11:03]] For 330. Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine. [[on the extension of State support measures for shipbuilding in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 5548]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Šemčuk Viktor Viktorovich. Correspondent: Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please. The proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'm putting her to the vote. Please vote. [[11:12:00]] For 203 Decision taken. Victor Viktorovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine proposes the extension of shipbuilding support by 2016. [[on the extension of State support measures for shipbuilding industry]] State support for the domestic shipbuilding industry was introduced by the Ukrainian law of January 1, 2000. State support at the time proved to be timely, as economic conditions did not contribute to the reconstruction and development of domestic shipping. Thanks to State support, Ukrainian shipbuilders have maintained a trend towards growing production volumes, increased production capacity, increased production volumes, and increased volume of payments and payments to congregations. But despite the measures taken, the financial and economic situation of the sector remains complex. Therefore, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine is being submitted to preserve favourable tax policies for shipbuilding enterprises. The bill is intended to extend the period of state support for the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry until 2016. The implementation of the bill will have an impact on the formation of an income portion of government and local budgets. At the same time, the implementation of the bill does not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine and will allow the final exit from the crisis of the shipbuilding sector, the domestic industry, to continue the trend towards increasing production volumes and increasing production volumes. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 17 February 2010 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine. [[on the extension of the deadline and State support measures for the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry]] And the purpose of the bill is to take appropriate measures to support the shipbuilding industry in Ukraine. It is proposed to continue for 4 years the law on State support for shipbuilding in Ukraine until 1 January 2016. Considering that the shipbuilding sector is important for the development of the economy of the state and for the growth of its export potential, as well as for the construction of vessels, the members of the committee decided to support the draft Law. On my part, I would like to say that industries such as construction, heavy machinery, energy, are at the heart of the country's economic and national security. This is essentially the foundation on which our economy is based. There will be no strong foundation for strong construction, heavy engineering, energy, no strong economy, and no strong political sovereignty. I think that this law should also be considered in the context of joint, serious, major construction projects that we will implement with Russian investors. This would be a real opportunity to raise the judicial sector, both through private investment and through public support. And so, indeed, make it a key, basic industry that, in fact, has to raise the economy of the country. We propose to support this law on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. The names of the national deputies are requested on the information board. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the project that we have been given to extend the period of State support for the shipbuilding sector certainly requires additional measures to support the shipbuilding sector. The truth is, I hardly agree with the author who pointed out that this bill does not require additional funding. I think to myself, what are these additional measures in support of the shipbuilding sector that do not require additional funding? Another thing that, even in spite of this thesis that he has expressed, is sure to be supported by this bill, for in due course the Soviet Union, the Soviet Ukraine, had one of the most powerful and the largest fleets on the Black Sea and in the world’s oceans. And, of course, today, when the economy tends to grow, we certainly need to strengthen the fleet, and we need to support the shipbuilding industry to do so. Of course, it is necessary to do so. And that's why the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill: the extension of state support to the 2016 MP. Thank you. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u53	I'd like to introduce you to Láška Oleg Valeriyovich, the BUT faction. Next is Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u54	The shipbuilding industry really needs state support. That is why the Supreme Council voted in favour of the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry. But I want to pay attention to my colleagues, the previous speaker, and the hall. The law to which we make changes is in force by 2012. We're in 2010 now. We now propose to make changes to continue the operation of this law until 2016. What is the need today? The law is in force until 2012. What's the point in 2010 -- two more years of law -- we're making these changes? I mean. So, about perspective. In order to know the future, I think it would be worth mentioning: and how long has this law created new jobs in the Crimea, in Nicholas, in Herson, in other adjacent companies working in the shipbuilding sector; how much tax is paid to the State Budget? Not the total number of taxes paid there is how much they're paid. And we have people coming to us who are, on the contrary, threatened to "get out of work", in the same Herson, from this company. How much is produced, and how is it interconnected? So if, for example, the initiators said that we're going to continue the operation of the law until 2016, we have arrangements not only with Russians, with Greeks, Cypriots, Americans, English people, that we're going to build new ships on our shipyards, it's going to give thousands of Santa Clauses, criminals, Hersonians, get jobs, get paid. That's why we need this law. Yeah, no questions. Then we vote for it. But it's not there, we don't see it. And we see that the law can work for two more years. And all of a sudden, we're not getting out of this. Give me four more years. Why? Who? Who are the owners of these companies today? The springtimes you mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u55	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u56	They were state enterprises. They're private businesses today. There is a private capital of unknown foreign origin. Not even native. And so when we talk about supporting the shipbuilding industry, it's only through the prism of protecting the interests of Ukrainian citizens involved in this industry, not protecting the private capital of the oligarchs. People need to be supported, not oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u57	I'd like to invite Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you from the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, this is one thing. The text of the law proposes to change the number 12 by 16. The law will continue to work for a while. But let's see if the law works properly today. Obviously it's not working. Why? First. The right Lakota is that businesses were, if they were ours in 2000, they were cut off with the permission of all authorities: both under the government of Yanukovic, and under the government of Timoshenko, and under the government of Yehanurov. With all the power in Santa Claus, Novinsky cut the factories. What's not true? Really. So what if we never build factories? No, we need to control how property is used, which is privatized. Now the question is to do as the Russians once did: pay for what you took, you can't do that. But that doesn't mean we don't have to make any good ships at all, it doesn't mean we don't have to plan for 5-10 years, build a ship -- it doesn't build in one year. So it's about one thing, it's about the company's turnover. But the question is, why aren't they coming up, these factories? The question is that the wages are very low and the question is, there's no debt, there's no lending. There's no credit because he's sitting at the head of the National Bank right now, he's being held by the second president, and the banking system's no good. That's the question. And the law needs to be adopted in the first and second readings, and to stimulate the production of our domestic vessels, and likewise of aviation and all other industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! If you don't mind, Yuri Anatoliyovich, for a brief procedure, there would be a warning to which state policy, that Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Vitaly Alexanderovich the Ingredient would not have expressed the position of the government. Please, Vitaly Alexanderovich, from the place there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! I have some numbers I'd like to inform you. Between 2000 and 2004, the volume of production increased by two and a half times, reaching 1 billion, 700 million dollars, and three and a half times as much as 837 million dollars. The average wage for these companies rose threefold from 241 in 1999 to 764 in 2004. Payments to the budget and non-budgetary funds have increased significantly, with a total of over 1 billion $300 million over the budget period of the law and the Pension Fund in the shipbuilding industry, exceeding the remaining 275 million of the remaining funds under the state-support regime. These are the figures for the period of the law. What happened after the law was overturned. The shipbuilding industry maintained trends in the production volumes of 2 billion 80 million in 2005, 2 billion 224 million in 2006, 2,373, 2008-2,512 in 2009 and 2,920 in 2007. But if you take the course, given that these are export contracts, there is a natural decline in production volume. Another point to be made is that we actually don't have a complete vessel built right now. In fact, machinery companies were destroyed without support. Now, unfortunately, in fact, our companies are working on export, making ship's hulls and exporting them. This is not the product produced by the Soviet shipbuilding complex Ukraine. I want to say another word that in other countries, in those that are evolving and increasing production volumes, there are laws in place in all countries to support the shipbuilding sector. In Korea, that's 40 percent extra, in China, 100 percent extra, and there's an internal market. And these countries, for example Korea, have now occupied 40 percent of the world market for this product in 15 years. Both Japan and Germany and Holland all support each other. Because the cumulative effect that the shipbuilding industry supports is from a miner, a metallurgy, a machine-builder, and high technology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u61	Thank you, Vitaly Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, we'll make decisions. Once again, I would like to remind you that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Shipbuilding Industry of Ukraine. [[on the continuation of State support measures for the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry]] [[National MP introduced by Shemchuk Viktorovich]] The committee is supported. And our Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority suggests that the bill is premature to think about what they have said. Because this is about what we carried from 12 to 16. However, since the committee's proposal is to take the basis for the first reading, I am voting on a bill to approve it on the basis. [[No.5548]] Please vote. [[11:27:23]] For 322 The decision has been made. Let the committee prepare for the second reading. Honorary colleagues thought to adopt a bill as a whole. Anybody got a warning? There's a warning. Dear colleagues, by virtue of the purity of our procedure, I can put to the vote only under a reduced procedure for second reading. I therefore put the bill to the vote for the second reading of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:28:14]] For 252 The decision has been made. I would ask the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, in accordance with our decision on a reduced procedure, to submit to the second reading. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code. [[concerning the right to land of foreign persons]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Tkac Roman Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bebezenko Valerij Fedorovich. Roman Volodymyrovich, please. What general line is your complete procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u62	It's full.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u63	We're going in full procedure. Please, Roman Volodymyrovich. The question is fundamental, important, to the land that has always united and at times separated the Ukrainians, so by full procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u64	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[concerning the right to land of foreign persons]] Registration number 2600 was introduced on July 23, 2008. The bill is designed to establish clear rules for the acquisition of legal property by legal persons created under foreign law or under Ukrainian legislation. However, the founders or participants of which are aliens or stateless persons, or a person without citizenship of land of a non-agriculture assignment and a clear prohibition for such legal persons to acquire land for agricultural purposes. To date, the issue of foreign legal persons is not regulated by the proper law in force in Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian Code of Masters, a foreign enterprise is an enterprise created under Ukrainian law and operated exclusively by foreigners or foreign legal persons. Ukraine’s land code allows foreign legal persons to take ownership of the land of a non - agricultural assignment today. However, the fact that a legal person may be created by foreigners abroad is disregarded. So this omission needs to be settled. What the bill proposes. First. In article 82 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which regulates the right of property to land of legal persons, the term “foreign legal persons” should be replaced by the term “legal persons created under legislation other than Ukraine’s legislation”. It's different. It is pointed out that legal persons created abroad and abroad may acquire property in the land of a non - agricultural assignment in the event of their acquisition in Ukraine of real estate. This right is acquired irrespective of whether within or outside the inhabited area is an object of real estate. I would like to stress once again on agricultural land, and the bill clearly stipulates that legal persons who are founding or participating in foreign nationals, stateless persons or legal persons who are created in accordance with legislation other than Ukraine's legislation cannot take ownership of agricultural land. This establishes the exclusive right to govern agriculture only by the citizens of Ukraine. Thirdly, the notion of “social enterprises” is replaced. At present, the provisions of the Earth Code do not clearly define the concept of “social enterprises” nor do they refer to other valid normative acts in order to define this concept. The current legislation of Ukraine does not provide for an organizational and legal form of the business entity as a joint enterprise. The only definition of joint ventures is contained in the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economics and provides that joint ventures are enterprises that are based on the shared capital of business entities in Ukraine and foreign business entities. But this definition is not a definition of an organization's legal form of business, but rather a definition of economic content for economic, investment and other analysis of external economic activity. In addition, I stress this, it should be noted that the current legislation does not provide for the creation and state registration of new enterprises with the form of an "common enterprise". This is confirmed by the State Classification, the Classification of Organizational and Legal Forms of Management, approved by the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy of 28 May 2004 at number 97. Fourthly, there is an obligation to suspend Ukrainian citizenship for persons who own agricultural land to alienate it during the year. Fifthly, there is an obligation to alienate a land area during the year of an agricultural assignment in the event of a transfer of rights of a member of a legal person created in accordance with Ukraine's legislation to foreign citizens without citizenship, foreign legal persons. In addition, a list of the reasons why the court, under duress, terminates ownership of the land by decision of the court includes nonderogation, alienation, and alienation. Thus, the adoption of the proposed bill of law of Ukraine will help to reconcile the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the current legislation of Ukraine and its international obligations, to improve the legal regulation of property rights to land by the participation of legal persons of various legal forms, individuals and the creation of organisational and legal possibilities for foreign legal persons to acquire ownership of non-agricultural land. This bill is supported by our committee of profile and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So, dear colleagues, I ask you if you need to discuss it in more detail and accept it in the first reading. I'd like to take a few minutes off, and I'd like to stress again, because I've been approached by a few colleagues who may not have fully understood the substance of the bill. I'll try a few more minutes in this simple form. First of all, the third point is that this does not apply to agricultural land. On the contrary, the bill indicates that if a foreigner or a stateless person inherits a property, they are obliged to alienate the land during the year. Next question. There is no common business in the current legislation. That's why we're here. But it is allowed for foreign legal persons to own land. For example. I have information that some embassies want to build embassies or consulates in Ukraine, Kiev, or elsewhere. According to valid legislation, they have no right to buy out this land. They have no right. Because the law in force states that they have the right to own it for business purposes only. And the last. I'll give you a living example. In the region of Ivano-Frankiv in 2006-2007, the Italian company Merloni, the brand Ardo, bought the premises of the former Autolevmash factory. To this day, modern washing machines have been built. Logically, the aliens turned to it, it's outside the inhabited area, they bought the premises, the aliens came to us, since we've already put in a few tens of millions of euros, let us buy the property under the premises. Law enforcement does not allow. I've seen and examined in detail the observations of our Science and Technology Administration. In some parts I agree with them, you can make some clarifications, write out clearly for what purposes, but to do so, they say we need to open the gate. So I suggest that we accept it in the first reading, and then in the second reading, to take it as a base, we can clearly write and settle all of these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u65	Thank you, Roman Volodymyrovich. I'm so aware that we're resonant, and we're going in full procedure. Please write to the reporter. Who would like to ask the author of the bill? Karmazin Yuri, the next Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. You know, I've read the bill, and I have this kind of anxiety that we can, as the Chief Executive says, balance in rights with the acquisition of ownership of land by these legal persons. Because then one term will be applied to them by “juridical persons”. So then we have to write down, absolutely circle around what kind of legal persons are, for what it's all about. You know a lot of countries that don't allow foreign property on their land at all. And nothing, none of them die, and they put in the money, and all the glory of God. It's only for Ukrainian citizens. We have loopholes now: we marry our people or our people get married, then we divorce -- and then the land is already in their possession. We have so many examples. So how do these dangers go? Where the guarantee is that we'll agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u67	An understandable question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u68	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I deeply respect you. But I, even when you asked questions, ask you very much the logic of my question. Once again, I emphasize that the land of agricultural assignment does not have the right of any foreigner to own it, either under the garden or under the dowry. It is just a non-agriculture assignment. And this is practiced in almost all the countries of the world. Here's what we're talking about. Once again, when you ask a question, make a clear distinction. This is a non - agricultural assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u69	Yuri Voropeiev, faction of the Party of Regions, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u70	You know, I completely agree with you that foreign citizens can't or should not own foreign nationals or foreign companies. This is now settled in law. But I think the law requires further refinement in the area of joint ventures and here are the restrictions. Why? Because if a foreign company is in this joint venture, a foreign financial investor that can be called a donor as a financial asset. Well, to invest, and he doesn't own a Ukrainian business, let's say less than 50 percent owns everything, well, then everything will be fine. There is no problem, there is no fear that the owner of this enterprise is changing. And if its share is more than 50 percent, then, of course, restrictions should be imposed. So you're not defined: 1 per cent, 2 per cent, 20 per cent. That's the first question. What is your view on this? Sorry, I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u71	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u72	Dear colleague, I understand the essence of your question. And actually, that's what the scientific expert's conclusion is about. Maybe it's written out more clearly somewhere. But in principle, it doesn't matter. For when a factory was built with foreign capital, and he either built a building, or bought a place, or built it in an empty area. What does it matter if it's 5 percent or 60 percent? What does it matter? The land is reserved for non-agricultural purposes, clearly in a certain area, clearly defined the target and everything, does not change the point. What difference does it make?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u73	And once again I'm talking about SG, it's not about SG. It doesn't matter if it's 5 percent or 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u74	Budimir Ariev, please. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Romane, I understand that this law will, in fact, perhaps open the door to the business that it wants to do, the foreigner who wants to put his businesses here and who didn't want to do it before because of the precarious situation of land distribution. So, for example, in neighbouring Poland, powerful enterprises, big companies, they've made their capacities, and now they're doing absolutely well when they own the land that they're producing. Please tell me, when you wrote this bill, you were counting on how many times foreign investment flows to Ukraine could increase, just under the creation of foreign companies with foreign capital, and an increase in jobs after the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, it's essentially impossible to compare. First of all, there are global trends. So you've been reading for the last two years, somewhere in 2008-2009, a lot of investors in Ukraine have gone. They built, built an enterprise, then for various reasons, not even because there's a bad investment climate, just a crisis. And they're gone. So it's hard to compare. But I know, for example, and that's what today's coalition is talking about, says today's government that's going to be here in the hall to look at, are going to be introducing legislation on areas of priority development, free economic zones. And that's why he can do it. When a regional authority determines the area of priority development and it builds investment projects, they can develop, using this legislation, just land that can be, non-agricultural destinations that can be purchased by foreign legal enterprises to build factories here, that's what we're talking about, we're just facilitating the arrival of foreign capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u77	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Sand faction of the Party of the Regions. The high-ranking reporter! Indeed, the bill you are proposing simplifies the process of opening up the business of joint ventures and investment inflows and so forth. But there is such a problem as whether it is resolved by your bill, or whether it is possible after we make the appropriate amendments. In foreign areas, mixed marriages are formed, when investment comes, they have little capital, they want to process land, or they want to process dairy products, they take pastures, and they usually write this land on their wives. But in the event of the breakup of this marriage, if a wife dies, he is the only heir. Is this problem resolved or not? If it doesn't work out, then it creates problems that these just investors, small investors, they're just going to leave Ukraine. And for Johno-Francischi, Carpathians, the Black region, this is a very important moment because in every village near the border, you'll find 5.6.7 of these families and they're starting to produce or remake hair there, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u79	Understood, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u80	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. It's really important, and this bill doesn't decide if it's possible. So today we're working, by the way, with the government, on the development of two important LLC laws, on the State Land cadastre, and on the land market, and in fact, in the Land Market Act, there's a lot of people who see the Land Market Act as a law on land purchase. It is in the Law on the Market of the Earth that we write rules, clearly rules, who, as, on what conditions, can own the land. But here, in my bill, article 22 clearly says that when, for example, this happened, the family fell apart, even though the land of agricultural destination, even when the right to inherit is passed*** do not have the right of foreigners to have, they are obliged for one year to alienate this land. If the Land Market Act is adopted, we can write these things down in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u81	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u82	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter, interestingly, we're going to be creating joint ventures, other enterprises within the coastline itself, in forest areas outside the population, they're reprocessing, they're many different forms. Then the company is eliminated, the land is sold, how can it be? It's such a form, it's very interesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u83	Ukraine’s current legislation does not allow agricultural land to be created, nor does it allow it to be created. Article 22 of the Code of Land states in detail that it refers to agricultural land. So, you see, the law can't provide for illegal acts. I know that today, after all, we live in one state, we go on a warpath, we have a moratorium on banning the sale of land, and it says, "Sales 10 hectares of grill." Of course it can be, but the sooner we get to a more civilized market on earth, the sooner we write down the standards that prohibit such things. You know, they create underground garden cooperatives and they transfer very easily the land from the destination c/s to the non-destination c/s. This law forbids doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u84	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u85	Dear reporter, I wanted to ask you a question. And do we not, too early, give foreign people the right to own the land? And it's not just about the land of farming. And if hypothetically, it's such a case that a foreign person will take ownership of the land and take it out of the border of yademochemics or some waste and place it on our land. This must be done in a way that regulates the assignment that is passed on to a foreigner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u86	Thank you, Andrey. But once again, I can't handle all the issues with this bill. Again, the earthly code clearly states that land is not an agricultural assignment, land of industry, defenses, and so on and so forth. You can see that other laws already regulate those moments when in Ukraine, for example, a chemical enterprise is being created, some is being produced, let's say, not environmentally clean and it's being exported. But this is no longer a matter of this law. We speak here by principle -- who, under what conditions. And when Ukraine now owns one of the last places in investment, foreign investment -- it's only a little bit helping to sort out the process of alienating land from non-agricultural land. I say again, language is for the law, and those who break the law have to answer, but it is not possible to regulate the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u87	Thank you, Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u89	I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Valerija Fedorovich Bebzenka, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, honored guests! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 3 March 2009 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Ukraine's Land Code, which proposes to amend the standards of Ukraine's Earth Code, and notes the following: [[Registration number 2600]] [[on the acquisition of property rights in non-agricultural land by foreign legal persons, entrepreneurs based on foreign legal and natural persons]] The current edition of article 82 of the Ukrainian Code of Land does not address the issue of land ownership by non-agricultural individuals and legal persons created in accordance with Ukraine’s legislation, while foreign legal persons created under other countries’ legislation have such a right. Furthermore, part three of the current edition of article 82 of the Code of Land does not clearly define the concept of a “common enterprise” which does not allow for a clear definition of the legal persons on which the standards of this part are applied. This term “common enterprise” does not correspond to the terminology set out in the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine and the absence of classifications of enterprises. That is, introducing proposed changes and additions to the Land Code will exclude ambiguous interpretation of the rules on the right of legal persons to acquire ownership of land and clearly determine the legal basis for acquisition of non-agricultural land by legal persons established in accordance with Ukraine's legislation involving foreign investors and will contribute accordingly to Ukraine's foreign investment. Those minor flaws that the bill has can be corrected when preparing for the second reading. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Code of Land, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Tkako Romano Volodymirovic, as a basis. [[concerning the right to land of foreign persons]] [[Registration number 2600]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u91	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Will there be questions for a coconspirator? No questions? Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. I'll remind you again that we're working on a full-time procedure. All ready from the faction, from the national MPs, please, to the record. Who has expressed our desire to speak up, please. Dear colleagues, I'm looking here at us, and give me a general list, please. Three of us. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we have nine minutes, we'll be there by 12. Then we'll finish the question, we'll call it a break. Please, National Deputy Knazevitch. Then it's Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u92	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Frankly, it's obvious that our faction will unanimously support this legislative initiative, and it's not because it's our colleague. Although he personally needs to thank him very much for taking the initiative in a very important matter. A representative of the committee had just spoken and said that, indeed, it had happened that at the time of the adoption of the Code of Earth, this important issue had been overlooked. And ever since the codex was adopted, and this is what God will remember for almost 10 years, unfortunately, the problem has not been solved. This led to, so far no one can count, here Oleg Lazko in his question was somehow trying hypothetically to see how much this could attract to Ukraine's investment. And who counted how much we haven't counted in these years, given that during the Earth Code, those good-quality, let's say, property buyers who have such desires that they have a famous world brand that have known authority that they value very much, among other things, and this brand allows them to own in any part of the world, even though they do not care what kind of activity they do in this country. In Ukraine, unfortunately, they have a serious backlog, which makes it impossible, including attracting through these brands and other parts, for example, a large world capital that would probably want to invest its money in Ukraine, but cannot until the property in which the money will be invested is in its possession. In view of these circumstances, I think the author of the bill will agree with those observations that are the conclusion of the Science and Export Authority. I've read the conclusion, and I think it's to a large extent quite professional. In particular, it is necessary to make clear the purpose and purpose of these enterprises so that no one has any doubt that they will then be requalified at any stage and that the land will continue to be fragmented, including for purposes clearly prohibited by the Code of Earth. One more question. I'd like to give the author a few words. There is concern that even if there is a ban on agricultural land, we know that in Ukraine, despite a certain ban, there is a full market for the so - called change of purpose. And here, again, you have to think about making this process seriously impossible in this part. Because if these questions are removed, I'm convinced that in the second reading, this session hall will basically support a perfectly logical and necessary bill. Thank you. Vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u94	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The reporter was a very beautiful and convincing report. But it is, but it raises a lot of questions. He told me about one thing. But the realities in our country are different. Today, we must understand that there is a huge process of redistribution of ownership by all Ukrainian citizens who are in this room and outside this room. And the fattest piece, the cutest piece, is the ground. The earth of various assignments, as if we were not talking about it. We know, and there have been examples here that many countries in the world are clearly defending the interests of their own countries and not allowing foreigners to own their own land. What we do. We are in the authorities themselves and, in particular, in Parliament, we are representatives of those who register these bills, we are practically promoting the interests of foreign nations to one extent or another, giving the same permission. We speculate on terms. It's going to be within a populated area outside a populated area. Let's see, if there's a processing company, it's going to be somewhere outside the population. Let's look at these companies, if they're some kind of service in the coastal lanes and others. These are the very hairs that we know of. The bill and the answer are no if this enterprise is eliminated and the land is still owned, how will it be used in the future? In fact, we know that this is already happening. And today, in Parliament's walls, the number behind it is going to go back to shaping and adapting legislation to what it is. Many speak and say that in Ukraine they are already trading land and trading on a full self - programme. I'm asking you all and I'm asking Ukrainian citizens who are doing this, who are violating Ukrainian legislation, what these people aren't attracted to, whatever authority is changing, but they're not taking responsibility. On behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian company, I say to all of you and the Ukrainian citizens that the Communists will not support the bill and allow trade in our country of origin, especially if this same land is to be obtained by foreigners. A great deal of our blood, the blood of our people, has been shed to protect and protect this very land, not to sell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u95	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. And we're going to sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u96	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Respectable compatriots! In fact, the goal is supposed to be noble in the bill, but on the other hand is whether or not it will involve foreign investments, the world brands that have been mentioned. A small example is why China is not allowed to transfer land to foreign people, and there are hundreds of billions of foreign investments and very advanced, world brands. You didn't ask yourself that? And I want to ask you the same thing. We give foreign people the right to have land not only for farming purposes, but for other purposes. But, on the other hand, the same thing was said here: “Do we not know these schemes, including our colleagues, when thousands of hectares of land of agriculture are not being converted into agriculture and then used as they wish? ” I want to say that in the world, in developed countries, there is no absolute private property on earth. Try to get land in the same United States. So the state government will tell you 10 times what you have the right to use the land, what you don't have, what you don't have to build, what you don't have. So I think we need to be very careful about these issues. And it is necessary that, before making such decisions, a very strict state regulation should be prescribed, precisely in cases where, as far as the term of the land is concerned. And what prevents the same foreign investors from renting this land for the next year — 25 years, 50 years, and then with the right to continue? It's a very delicate question. And in most countries that care for their national sovereignty, security, and security, foreigners do not have ownership of the land. And we need to keep that in mind. And I want to tell our Communist colleagues. This bill, and other unpleasant bills that will further force your colleagues from the Party of Regions to accept you, you should think that when you went to the coalition to the bourgeois Party of Regions, where the largest oligarchs, the exploiters of the common people, you must think that Karl Marx and Engels have turned ten times into a grave. The Communist Party can't be in one coalition with the biggest bloody bourgeois. So actually the left movement has ceased to exist in our country. And I think the new lefts will be more patriotic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, Roman Volodymyrovich as the author of the bill, please. If we can, it'll take us a minute to figure it out, because it's time for a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u98	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues! It is a pity that the issue of the earth, so important, came to an end in the coalition. I'd just like to remind you again. Ladies and gentlemen, this hall was adopted in 2001 by the Ukrainian Codex on Earth. I have no questions for the Communist faction. I know you have a clear position and she understands. No questions asked. You have a position, you've been clearly defending it for 10 years. All right, no questions. But I have a question for other colleagues. But for today, since 2002, everything I've offered is working. I just want to ask you. Read carefully. I am reading an active article: “Foreign legal persons may acquire ownership of land of non-agriculture purposes.” An active article. I'm just clarifying her legal concepts. It can be written. And I don't have anything else. And I'm just sorry that when my colleagues come forward with such important discussions, they're just going to read or they don't want to read. Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov, I am addressing you. I've spoken to many colleagues. I'm asking you, all the comments that we've made, Valery Fedorovich and I work closely on the committee, we can work on it. I've agreed that there are serious observations from the science and science department. But give us the opportunity to work on that. It's either a month or two from now. This is not a question of the ideology of the new Earth Code, this is a question of technology, which is to regulate legally the points that are currently in the current legislation. Dear colleagues, please come to this without politics. Let's vote it as a base, then we'll work on it. Let's go to each faction to make our remarks, and we can take these important changes for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u99	Thank you, Roman Volodymyrovich, for our decision. Already. A replica? And indeed, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov was mentioned, and he was very active. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u100	Dear People's Deputies, you know, we didn't want to break this constructive rhythm of the work of the Supreme Council that's been going on for the second day. Therefore, the issue of land is the most fundamental issue. And you can see that even I, not calling the name of the minister of the opposition government, who, on one side of the barricad with you, and he blew up into the dust and the dust, even the communists were speaking, and the intellectuals said, criticism, but the communists were intelligent people, and the BUTT, these checkers, they blew you up into the air and dust, into the smoke and dust. That is why we understand that there is a good grain. But since there is no general view in the opposition itself, we do not have the right, the moral right to treat the land this way is the last thing we have left. So let's think about how we can get into the philosophy of the law that will be supported by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u101	Unfortunately, I can't give the words for a replication, because they only mentioned parties that were actually mentioned by Karl Marx, because there are no relatives here, so I won't give a word, so I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Earth Code. [[concerning the right to land of foreign persons]] [[Registration number 2600]] Once again, I remind the committee that it proposes to adopt as a basis the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration proposes to take into account observations and warnings. So we vote on the basis of the first reading, please vote. [[12:05:07]] For-52 There were ideas during the first re-reading to actively work so that all the problems there could be reconciled and taken into account the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration I would like to put the first one again, please vote. [[12:05:40]] For-147 For the time being, the land issue will be discussed without the bill. Dear colleagues! I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 35 minutes. After the break, we will consider the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for child delinquency]] Moskal Hennaday Hennadijovich will report, Mosik will report
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u102	Please come to the session room. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the increase of responsibility for child delinquency]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Moskal Hennady Hennadiyyyovich and co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Mosik Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! But who should we turn to when there is no one else in the room? It is, isn't it? Well, you know what the scream was about children, and the Supreme Council was looking at the events in Artec, paedophilia and other things that didn't end. But I propose real things, to bring legislation, the Code of Laws on Administrative Justice for the Rights of Children to the requirements of the UN Convention, on the Rights of the Child, on the Laws of Ukraine on Organs and Services for Children and on Special Institutions, and on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. What I'd like to say here is what's important and I'd like you to support me. Domestic violence, 80 percent of all working hours, is spent on domestic violence rather than crime. And so it was that the Administrative Code did not state that they had the right to detain a person who commits domestic violence — that is, a police force — with a knife there or with other items beating a woman, wife, children, and so on, it was impossible to detain him. Therefore, I am asking for a supplement to article 262 of the article that the body of internal affairs in the course of petty bullying, domestic violence, so that this person can be detained for up to three days, within three hours, I apologize, as for any administrative wrongdoing. In addition, I ask you very much to support the failure of parents or persons who are replaced by the responsibility to raise their children. You know, those people who don't have money, they don't have anything. What can only punish them completely is public works. Therefore, I ask that the list of public works be added to article 24. And to write clearly what public works are -- they are done by a person who has committed administrative offences free of work and learning time for free community service, whose type is determined by local self-government authorities. Public works are set for between 16 and 200 hours and no longer than 4 hours a day. Civil work is not assigned to persons defined as persons with disabilities of the first or second group, pregnant women, persons who have not reached retirement age. That would be a very good lesson for parents for bad parenting. And complete article 156 “Contraventions of the rules of alcohol trading” to be added after “alcohol” before “smokers”“. ” Because there's a lot of low-alcoholic beverages that mix alcohol that contain other, well, let's say, alcoholic beverages, but they're low-alcoholined, but they're sold completely without any restrictions, without any licenses or anything like that. The law has no political element or anything. This is a law that will only improve administrative legislation to bring it to the standards that are now in reality, and I ask you to support it in the first reading, and I would be very happy if the national MPs would make a note of the law. This is only about increasing responsibility for children. And as I ask again, distinguished national MPs! Since you have paid much attention to your love for your children, show this in reality that it is really necessary to make sure that we do not commit wrongs in our children’s relationship and that children are not now the target of criminal offenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Please sit down, Hennadia Hennadiovich. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. Please, Volodymyr Romanovich, conclusion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u105	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This bill has been passed for a third year. It was registered on April 3, 2008, and, of course, after the February 09 conclusion, much of the legislation changed. Since November 2008, public works have already been introduced into a code in connection with changes to road traffic legislation. At the end of the bill, which touches on increasing criminal responsibility for crimes against children, which affects the police's right to detain family debossiers, the bill supports the first reading on the ground and asks you to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion if you need to. If not, we will vote. National MP Gordienko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u107	The microphone's already working. Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Of course, the coreporter pointed out that two years ago the bill was registered. During this time many things have been settled in this legislation. I have questions like these. We should clearly understand that today, not by drawing on responsibility, we have a lot of legislation worked out in this field and in other areas. But what is the real reality of Ukraine? That neither the Constitution nor the legislation are in practice being implemented. This is the biggest disaster. And we don't regulate if we don't get active legislation to be done or what we're adopting, it's done in practice, there's not going to be any movement. I am delighted and, of course, the very right thing to do is to increase the responsibility for the trade in alcoholic beverages and soft drinks. And these drinks shouldn't be sold to children. But let's go to the trading points of Ukraine today, do an experiment and see if this is happening or not. It says around that by the age of 21, they have no right to sell. But we're following Marx, and I'm one of the ones who's here to care about Marx that where there's 3 percent of the profit, there's capital growing where it starts to grow. And where there's 300, there's no crime to stop capital. Hence, the desire to gain income today is primary in whether to trade or not to trade in these soft drinks. If we're looking after the children, I'd like to finish by saying the following. The biggest problem is that we have destroyed the Soviet system of education that is built on the interaction of schools, families, and the public. And until we return, we will not make the demands of the family, school, and public life unique, nor will we gain anything in this queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u108	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw attention to the idea itself and then to the bill's paragraphs, so let me say, our Moscow, well, more specifically, the people's MP Moscal. And really, we've had the bill for a long time. So once again, I remind you that we are already operating in part of the fact that we have low alcoholic beverages as a form of alcoholic beverages. And we went up, compromised until we were 21 years old, banned until we were 18 years old, but we stopped halfway there. Because we don't have restrictions on, let's say, where it's sold. I read today that in Kiev more than 9,000 MAFs, about 9,000 MAFs. If you've been walking, well, I've come to Obolon to see what the MAF is, for example. It says, "Living beer." So that's how life goes on for you, and there's this girl standing there, and she spills that beer, whether it's a kid or not. If we come out of the ideology that alcohol and beer are alcohol, and we wrote that, of course, it can't be sold there. Because then it turns out that in the subway there's a vodka spill or some other trouble, and so on. So we have to go this way and ban it, and then sell it all, as it comes out of the bill. But I support the author in saying that we are destined to go to public work anyway. Because this is the general principle of the world. And which one of you saw a good story on, I think, "1+1" which ended on May 9th. And they showed the Chrysalis, didn't they? Everything's thrown, everything's thrown with bottles. And the scariest part of this story is not that young drunks sit around and then play with bottles of football. What has been shown is that a young family comes and leads a boy who is 3-4 years old. And he looks at those young boys and he spins those bottles with his feet. And that's why I'm absolutely convinced that if we don't say today that, friends, violations, violations -- and there's a fine in this part or there's public work. You're going to clean up once in Kiev or in the district center or in the village, you're going to realize that you can't get drunk in unestablished cities, that you can't throw away, because there's no other way to raise people. Indeed, the work is very important in that rethought. That's why I would say it that way. There's actually a lot of rules that are contradictory or that are not supported by our scientific expertise, obviously because the law has already been passed, and it was registered in 2008. Yes, but I think we should go to first-reading support, analyze, correct, take into account existing legislation and adopt such a bill. Once again, the ideology that we should influence the administrative path is the right one, and it needs to be guided.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u110	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the bill needs to be supported. The idea is absolutely right. We understand that increasing the responsibility for crimes against children is to vote for our own future. If this is not done, vote against your own future. But I asked for two more things. First of all, I want to go to the author of the bill and to each of us, and ask that when we're drafting a bill and we're trying to narrow it down in parentheses, we don't always spell it out exactly. See, in this particular case, “To Change Ukraine’s Code of Administrative Offences. ” [[on the increase of responsibility for child delinquency]] But the bill’s report already stated that not only is the issue, but the issue of domestic violence, but it does not always apply to children, but the question of increasing responsibility for the sale of soft drinks, which is not in the strictest form. That is, we should try to be more specific, to pass on the brief content of this bill. And then finally, I emphasize, this is a wish for all of us, and I'm just illustrating the example of this bill. And one more thing I want to say. The faction will support this bill. The only one, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to listen to the opinion and the professional ministry on family, youth and sports. Because, as far as I know, they have some warnings that some of these norms are actually in actual legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u112	Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, we support the legislative initiative. The only thing I agree with those who have spoken and said that, unfortunately, 2008 and after, several years of individual issues have been settled, we have three positions on laws related to those or other amendments to legislation on the restriction of consumption and sale of beer and soft drinks, on the amendment of some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of family violence adopted at the end of 2008, at the beginning of 2010, where these issues have already been settled. That's why we support in part, but there are moments that have already been settled in successive years by legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Hennady Hennadijovich, please give some thought to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the Ukrainian government! It's really not my fault, it was written before acceptance. But it will be taken off in the second reading. We will erase what is, and we will leave what is today, and perhaps there will be other additions to the national MPs on this issue. So I ask you to accept today only in the first reading, to refine what is. You say the Road Traffic Rules are about public works, but it's not clear how they're done. We've clearly written out how they're doing. And about domestic violence. You're right. You're right. But today, ask the police, they can't hold a man. That's the question that we leave him, and then the opera group leaves when he killed a woman or maimed a child and so on. These are very important moments. And that's why I'm asking you to accept it in the first reading. For the second reading, all these standards will be in place, dressed up, and the bill will be passed only in part of those rules that are not in force today and that are not settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u115	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office suggests that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative for further development. At the same time, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for child delinquency]] Registration number 2327. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:50:59]] For 352 The bill was adopted as a basis. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing accountability for crimes against children]] Registration number 3558. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine Levtsun Volodymyr Ivanovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Why don't we put him on short notice, don't you mind? The author supports such an initiative to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:51:50]] For the 250. Decision taken. Volodymyr Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! The greatest value for every family is children, the greatest value in the state, its future is children. And our greatest values must be adequately protected. But current legislation, in my opinion, does not provide adequate responsibility for crimes against children. In this regard, a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Criminal Code on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Crime against Children was drafted to improve the effectiveness of child protection and health and to provide a legal basis for accountability for violations of juvenile property laws. This law is designed to increase responsibility for crimes against children. If specific, article 137 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for the improper discharge of duties relating to the protection of the life and health of children, the failure or improper exercise of professional or service obligations regarding the protection of the life and health of minors as a result of unconcerned or conscientious treatment if this has caused material harm to the victim’s health. I emphasize that it is fined up to 50 untaxed minimum citizens' income, or community labor for up to 240 hours, or the right to hold positions or to engage in certain activities for up to three years. The child has lost his or her health to the carelessness of certain individuals, and it is provided for us to do just fines. Therefore, the project proposes that these violations be punishable by a restriction of the will to a term of up to four years, or that they be suspended for up to three years, without the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u117	Please finish. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u118	The second part is also too soft. The same action, if they caused the death of a child, lost a child, the state lost a child. But you can do it with a fine. It is also, in my opinion, totally abnormal and must be a criminal responsibility and the corresponding terms are proposed. Well, article 167, this is children's property rights, this is primarily about orphans, the use of care, or caring for a useful purpose for a minor, the occupation of a residential area, the use of his property is also punishable by fines, the child was robbed, the housing area was taken, the property was taken away, and you can limit yourself to a fine. The bill proposes such abuse, is also punishable by a three - year sentence, or by a three - year sentence. Dear colleagues, I urge you, let's protect our children together, our future, all the children of Ukraine. I propose to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, please, Vladimir Romanovich, and the Committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u120	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Honorary colleagues, the Honourable Vladimir Mihailovich, propose to amend two articles of the Criminal Code to 137, which refer to responsibility for improperly fulfilling the responsibilities of protecting the life and health of children, and to article 167, which deals with responsibility for abuse of custody rights. The committee considered the bill and recommended that it be approved on the first reading as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration's comments are that the author in the explanatory note did not explain how the old rules of law work, but this does not matter in the opinion of the committee. If those sanctions were held back, even though little crime in the field of human rights protection, greater sanctions would be done even more effectively. The committee asks for support as a basis for first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, if there is a need to express your thoughts, please register. Well, if we don't want to speak, we'll make decisions. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u122	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” We support the adoption of this legislation. And we should thank Vladimir Ivanovich. Because when you watch the press daily, it is full of reports that a crime against children has been committed. And it's suggested that it's especially bitter when people die because parents just don't have responsibility and don't think what can happen to children when they leave for a long time. Therefore, increasing responsibility for crimes against children should be viewed as one of the most shameful, most hurtful crimes. And we will vote for this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u123	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u124	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the second part of the proposed bill, which deals with the abuse of custody rights. There may be a discussion, a hypothetical discussion, about the fact that these people have already made certain commitments, and that increasing responsibility for these people and leading this responsibility to criminal responsibility is not correct. From our point of view, that's an improper statement. Because in this case there is a situation where those who care for children have not only legal ties with them, they have an impact on these children. And so if they're the ones that hurt children, it's often, it's often quite indistinguishable, because these kids are completely dependent on those who care about them. And I want to point out that this is where attention is given. It's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad, it's too bad for those kids And even though it has been pointed out in the science-expert manual: which is not in the legislative initiative in the explanatory note of statistics, but we know very well that conflicts involving the abandonment of underage children, that their rights are abused and their rights are not exercised. These facts are and are not unique. And so it seems to me that if we support this legislative initiative, we will increase the responsibility of guardians and the understanding that guardians are not just people who have rights, but that these are people who have serious obligations in relation to the children they care about. That's why we can take this bill as a basis, it's humane in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u125	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u126	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I signed up for the chapter against the fact that I or the faction are going to vote against this bill. We will definitely support him. But I signed up for it, and why am I against it? I'm against speculation on this subject. I am against the one who will vote and will not defend the rights of the children. That's how everyone's gonna protect themselves. And there's a lot of speculation going on. Next. I'm against the fact that we don't have legislation in place to protect children's rights. I'll give you a specific example. You know that children’s work is often used today. Because these are children who can be paid less, you can't pay at all. At times, this leads to tragic events. In the village of Chutovo in the Poltava region, the work of a minor named Lobanov was used to analyze one of the objects. And this young man died on this subject. Today, we know whose facility this work was used and our mother and I are almost two - year - olds there, who have no bearing on Ukraine’s law enforcement authorities, for the child has perished and the water itself has been destroyed. They're terrible child's wages. And we need to strengthen these very moments in legislation first, but most importantly, we need to enforce existing legislation. Because Ukraine’s biggest problem is that neither the Constitution nor the legislation of Ukraine are being implemented. And that leads to what? They want to have profits, profits in human work that end in death.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is to reject the bill. I am betting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing accountability for crimes against children]] [[Registration number 3558]] Please vote. [[13:02:49]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of the Governmental Authorities of Ukraine and Officials. [[on the abolition of the status of military organization in the Ukrainian State Protection Authority]] [[Registration number 2266]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal Correspondent: Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. [[13:03:33]] For 247 Decision taken. Please Hennaday Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Most of you know that the KGB of the U.S.S.R. had the 9th government that protected senior officials. But it happened that there was a lot of money in the state, and we have fertilized so many services that there are no Europeans in any country, I'm not talking about our neighbors anymore. In the same way, the State Guard, which is a government, is made up of 2,000 people. Well, today the President has a lot to do, what to do, who to protect and what to do. I think these functions I propose to pass on to the Cabinet of Ministers. The status of the military organization from the State Security Authority to withdraw and make a specialty. And everything will remain as it is. In what form the flags and captains stood here, they would stand. So they're just going to be subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I think, will determine whether it is appropriate to keep two thousand people in financial crisis today as permanent or to send them back to the Security Service or to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. I refer to the conclusion of PARE that only in dictatorship can military organizations protect the Presidential Administration, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Military forces in peacetime are to be in barracks or in schools, not to be protected by higher public institutions. The same is true of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that the armed forces and other military formations can be no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u129	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u130	To limit the rights and freedoms of citizens. Dear National Deputies! Remember how much shouting there was when the government liaison service was taken away from the Security Service and subjected to it by the Cabinet and removed the status of the military organization? Tell me, does the government bond work worse today? Not worse. That's how it works. So for 2,000 people to be a military organization, and today to be protected by military, well, I'm sorry, it didn't save us from smoke checkers or fights or anything. So I propose that the status of the military organization be lifted. Individuals will have special titles, such as internal affairs or special liaison, and will be subject to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u131	Thank you, Hennady Hennadiovich. Please, Head of the National Defence Security Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, this bill was considered more than a year and a half ago under well - known circumstances. The committee’s decision was to support the first reading. It wasn't uniform: 7-by-one, 1-to-1, held up. I want to remind you that it was in time. There was a strong opposition. The President's efforts were to concentrate all the power structures in his hands, including the Information Protection Service, the Border Guards, the Presidential Armed Forces Regiment, and the National Guard to turn them into such military, separate formations, and so forth. And that's why there are three factions among the authors, including the opposition and the majority. I understand that this bill is not going to be adopted right now, and obviously we need to look at the President and his team systematically on what's going on in the power structures, based on the basic principles that have emerged on the committee and in the hall here. The form should actually only be worn in the army, nowhere else. And where they put on uniforms to get status and benefits, and everything that a public man needs, they need to be provided, but without form. And that's what Mr. Moskal's bill was about. Besides, we need to find out what's under the Kabmen and what's under the President. Because really more than a dozen power structures, 745 thousand people in shape -- that's too much for our country, without having the threats that we have. So in this particular situation, I will personally abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u133	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Beales, Communist faction. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in principle, really, the problem is not new, if so, at large. I'm going to push away from what Anatoly Stepanovich said. The country is just full of military personnel. We're all in shape, starting with the hazelnuts and ending up with the same national security. The problem is, and the subject of the legislative initiative is the National MP Moskal, who is absolutely right. But the problem must be solved in a complex way. We can't have 300,000 more militias today than two times the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It's nonsense. The same with the State Guard. Although it certainly makes sense that the employees of this unit should have a special title rather than a military one, starting with the rank and ending with the generals. That's clear. So, understanding the whole problem and supporting it to some extent, we still consider it appropriate to address it in a complex way, and at this point to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u135	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u136	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I'm going to be more radical in terms of my inadmissibility to this bill. Well, first of all, I'd like to push away from what the committee head said about the uniform being to be worn only in the army. Frankly, I don't know any country where the army is uniformed. There's always institutions and offices -- I say what's been said -- the offices that wear the form. Evidently, the form should be worn by those who are legally wearing it. And those who are illegally wearing uniforms -- and in Ukraine there are many such cases, including at the masquerade level -- obviously have no right to wear uniforms. But there's a more serious point here, why I'm saying it's more radical in not accepting it. Let's see. Subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers of this organization is what structure, which institution: the College Institute. Maybe not possible, but collegiality is good. When decisions are made at the level of government, local governments, and so forth. When it comes to formation and which are called upon to provide national security and defence, including officials, should be based on the principle of unity. And when this principle is violated, then there are appropriate “collegiate” in the paws, the consequences, when no one really bears responsibility for what has been done, I do not mean to say crimes, but problems have been committed. Next thing you know, there's an explanatory note in the bill that the implementation of the project doesn't need any additional spending from the State Budget, but that's not true. Because when it comes to reality, you have to consider the unplanned payout for the release of military personnel. And apparently not all who work at the U.S.A.U.U.S.A. today will agree to change their status as a substitute. There will be a form of dress, signs of distinction and so on. It's real money. And the fact that not everyone agrees to change their status is a fact, because there will be consequences, and you know it, I don't think this bill is just premature.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u137	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to change the order of the subordination of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority by transferring the power of the President of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and demilitarizing the UDF by changing the status and personnel of military personnel to members of the military and the chief of staff. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine is beyond the powers of the President of Ukraine on the management of the UDO, as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security, the President of Ukraine, as Head of State, guarantor of State sovereignty, territorial integrity of Ukraine, respect for the Constitution of Ukraine, human rights and freedoms and citizen, the Supreme Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Head of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, is exercising general leadership in the areas of national security and defence. Moreover, the subordination of military formations and law enforcement bodies of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to a collegiate body is not in line with the principles of the leadership of the force structures, in particular article 3 of the Act on State Protection of the Authorities of Ukraine and Officials, which refers to the fundamental principles of State protection as the principle of unity. We cannot agree with the statement in the explanatory note to the draft statement that the implementation of the project does not require additional costs from the State Budget, as mentioned by the previous speaker, to take into account the unscheduled payment of the out-of-service allowance for the release of military personnel who do not agree to change their status, the replacement of the form of clothing, the distinguishing marks, the forms, and the forms. and so on. On this basis, I fully agree with the proposal of the previous speaker not to vote in favour of this bill. Moreover, he will bring nothing for the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u140	They were. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Yuri Carmazin, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a few questions in the air. First. For 2,000 men, do you need the Lieutenant General's office, or should you introduce the rank of Lieutenant General? Obviously you don't have to. And here right here is General Moscal, where he clearly asked the question that the maximum title that could be is Major General. And it's a long time ago to settle it, and at least to do it. Because it's just a little funny, you know, 2,000 people or 3,000 people in our intelligence of the Ukrainian Army. And we have a lot of such army generals now. But I'd like to ask you one more question. It's not about the president, the presidents are changing, the system's staying. Another question. Is there a turn in the Department of State Protection? No, it's not. When we rule out Gennady Hennadiovich, this position that Ukrainian law is extended to military personnel, which establishes the general order and conditions of passage, are we going to improve their conditions? No, we're not. So you can take part of it and you can't take part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u142	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u143	In some parts, that's understandable. That's why I'm in favour of comprehensively reforming all the power tools that we're talking about, and the Security Service is now absolutely out of the number that we have, and that's the number that doesn't do the tasks they're assigned to them, and the IMF said that we need to go to the shortening and the substantial reduction of those who are driving.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u144	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! The bill has been completed. Obviously, we must draw everyone's attention to the committee head's words that this bill was largely born of a political moment -- the events that took place. We obviously need to move away from what we do by reflecting on the situation. And obviously we need to propose to the committee that it should work out systemic proposals for strong military organizations in Ukraine. And as far as we're concerned, we're in the middle of a dictatorship. Dear colleagues! Which one of you was in European parliamentary structures, obviously saw the shoes being taken off. And we have just to demonstrate that we have protection mostly. Therefore, respectable colleagues! I'm voting on a committee proposal, it's meant to adopt a bill as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office is that the bill is intended to restore the right of subjects to the legislative initiative for further development. I mean, the bill is off-limits. The first is a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Protection of the Authorities of Ukraine and Officials. [[on the abolition of the status of military organization in the Ukrainian State Protection Authority]] [[Registration number 2266]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:39]] For-22. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, I propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. [[on the size of pensions in case of loss of a breadwinner]] Registration number 5108. The rapporteur is Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, and he is the author of the bill. Why don't we put it in a nutshell? There is a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure, registration number 5108. Please vote. [[13:19:38]] For 257 Decision taken. The interview will take four minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, this bill on our committee has been unanimously voted in favour of all factions. First of all, I'm talking to the faction of the Party of Regions and I want to reach out to, if you want, hearts, I know you've decided not to vote for it, but I want to try to change your position. Because this is the situation where you have to think about people, there are no party divisions. Imagine that our legislation now states: “If a person dies or a civil servant dies, his wife will receive a pension of 70 per cent of the salary, and if there are incapacitated family members, up to 90 per cent.” Remember these two figures: 70 - 90. And if something happens that dies, whether a soldier dies, whether it's in the army, in the U.S.A., in the State Security Department, the border guard, the militiaman who goes on the knife and so on, then the numbers are not 90-70, but 40-30. It doesn't make any sense, there's no explanation! And a man in pursuit, and a man without a chase, if in the public service, they serve the state, the people. You can argue about who's more. I don't want to do this. But there has to be a single standard of social protection. Here's the bill. Nothing else. In order to protect the one serving the State if he died or died, his family was protected and not discriminated against. Because now it's hard to explain to the wife of a military officer who comes to take the head of a committee with two children, an officer has been killed. And she says: “How? I can't live!" 40 percent. And next door, it's the same thing. The district government employee is 90 percent. You can't explain it. That's why this bill, I think, needs to be adopted. To correct the error that has been made in our legislation for some reason. That's why our committee was unanimous. There's a warning from the Chief Science Administration. And I agree. These suggestions can be taken into account in the second reading – no problems confirmed under the transcript. There is a warning that perhaps the deadline for entry into force is necessary, either from the next one or even from 2012. And I don't deny it. But we have to send a normal signal from the Council that we're levelling this situation. Although the head of the budget committee is actually present, he has provided guidance that this year requires 24 million dollars to fund the bill. So you know, even if there were 240 million, you'd have to take it anyway. Those aren't the numbers. So the offer is to support it in the first reading. I'm talking to Michael Chechchev to get you to raise your hand, yes. Believe me, this is what the President will be interested in as the Commander-in-Chief. Because they are officers, soldiers who are directly subordinated to him. This will be understood by the head of government. Because the government also has the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Minister of Defense, and it's hard to explain in any way. How long will it take to enter? Please decide to read in conjunction with the second reading. Please support, the committee's decision is unanimous, to support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u147	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” We support the legislative initiative of Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka on pension insurance for persons released from military service. A truly timely initiative, but timely, for those who really do hurt people, not for those who want to improve their lives today, and for all others never. So unfortunately, the last social initiatives and the bills that have been tabled in this room, I don't think we should be wasting any time and looking at these bills knowing that the coalition will never vote for them. Because every Sunday such drafts are considered, submitted to the hall, time is spent, and the result is the same. And so to hope, Anatoly Stepanovich, that you can convince the person who runs the vote in vain. We will vote in favour and we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u148	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Company's faction will support the proposed bill because there is such a concept as equality of all before the law. In this case, Anatoly Stepanovich is absolutely right. Let's bring it all in line with the current legislation and the Constitution and support the proposal of the people's deputy Griesenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u150	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u151	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues! I'd like to start my performance and remind you of one movie in the late '80s. In 1989 it seems that Stanislava Speech “This is not the way to live. ” There was this analogy, which was then shown by a Soviet militiaman, who lives in a dormitory with his wife and three children, who have a meager salary, and now I think it's not more proportional than it was back then in 1989. And they're showing a New York police officer with almost a million dollars worth of insurance, with three guns, manned, protected and all that. And there's a question. Who will protect people better? Apparently a New York police officer, because he knows that in the event of his injury and even his family's death, he won't be left alone. The same applies to Ukrainian military personnel. For example, I would like to look at this perfectly correct bill of absolutely correct legislative initiative because of the prism of the general prestige and the place of military service in Ukrainian society. This prestige depends on how confident he is of how protected he is, how protected his family is, his children in the event of a tragic event. This is the first moment. And second moment. It was correctly said to colleague Valérie Bealez on the basis of what should be equal terms. And I want to add, there has to be basic justice. And this justice is that those who serve the State should be in the same conditions. Moreover, let us honestly say that the risks to a military official are far greater than the risks of just a civil servant. We need to understand that. The Lithuanian bloc unanimously supports this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u152	Yuri Sameilenko, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u153	Respectable colleagues cannot deny the need to strengthen the social protection of military personnel, as well as the desirability of creating equal conditions for the determination of pensions for family members, dead soldiers and public servants. As a member of the committee chaired by the rapporteur, I also voted in favour. At the same time, however, the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office explain in detail that the problem in general is not resolved as outlined in the bill. That's correct, I agree with Anatoly Stepanovich. But I, too, have had a bill of 2778 since April 2008, which was sent for further work. Why? Because it destroyed the social pay system as a whole. Therefore, Anatoly Stepanović, I am also addressing you, and I am ready to participate, perhaps we need to set up a working group so that we do not destroy the existing system of social payments so that we can take into account all existing legislation and the one front that we have gone to raise social payments, without any political considerations. Therefore, of course, I would also like to raise my bill to the mothers who lost the breadwinners, and they are receiving a miserable salary today. I get a lot of letters from this category in order to increase their payments. But I will probably go along the path of uniting efforts and establishing a working group to work on the points discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. Who insists on speaking out from factions who have not exercised such a right? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is to send a bill for further work. So I'm going to put it to a vote in this sequence. First. A committee proposal. Then, depending on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will be determined. I mean, then maybe we can re-read it. Unless, of course, the Supreme Council supports it. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, registration number 5108. [[on the size of pensions in case of loss of a breadwinner]] Please vote. [[13:29:57]] For 206 The decision is not taken. In view of such support, we obviously have reasons. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 113, Our Ukraine – 49, Communists – 25, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 0. I'm voting for a motion to re-read the bill, registration number 5108. Please vote. There's a note, I think we need to take them into account, the scientific expertise, and bring them up to date. [[13:30:40]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The next bill deals with amendments and additions to some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[concerning the prohibition of the use of alcohol on board an aircraft]] Registration number 5081, author of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bogdan Hubski. Once again, however, there is a letter to pass on the consideration of this bill. I'm paying attention to the faction that this is the second time a bill package is introduced, but there is no author. Please see what you have to offer. You can't do that either. I'm voting on the postponement of the draft law. [[Registration number 5081]] I'd like to make a statement. No, we'll look into it. [[13:31:51]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Please, who's going to report? Please. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u155	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Transport and Communications has considered the bill tabled by the People's Deputy of Hubski. The bill is designed to amend the State Aviation Safety and Civil Aviation Programme and article 112 of the Code on Administrative Offences. The Committee's analysis showed that the State Aviation Administration was operating in accordance with European international standards adopted by ICAO International Civil Aviation Organization. There are no restrictions in any ICAO documents or projects that the law provides for today's Deputy Gubsky. Moreover, a compendium of aviation regulations in force in Ukraine provides for a ban on service and admission on board passengers in heavy drinking. As we move to European standards and will discriminate against our aviation, Ukrainian and international carriers, the Committee has decided unanimously to reject this law. The Scientific and Expert Office has also concluded that it should reject the bill, which is fully introduced by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please, please, who. Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Alexander Stoyan will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u157	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. You know, unfortunately, we didn't hear the author's report. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the breadth of the legislative initiatives of this person, beginning with the earth, continuing with the decisions of the judges, continuing with questions of citizenship, and conducting civil aviation. But jokingly, the problem is becoming more and more resonant. Moreover, when I read the first section of the bill, where the following words are proposed: “A passenger has no right on board an aircraft.” Because it's a very unique case when we're faced with people in the airship crew, well, let's say, not exactly in a sober state. The argument about what's nowhere. There's no such thing as, well, it's, of course, that argument. But perhaps nowhere else in the world but Ukraine is flying planes where aircraft, let’s say, are not so cautiously sober. That's why the problem is, it needs to be solved. From which end, from which side, is the other thing. But without knowing the profile committee's opinion, we actually planned to support this initiative with factions, because it's about extremely serious things. At the back of the aircraft’s commander up to a hundred, about a hundred, and far, hundreds, of people in charge of his life. And of course, passengers also influence the situation on the aircraft itself. We think there is a problem, and we need to think about how to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u158	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u159	Well, really, it's good that Mr. Hubsky cares about ordinary people, because he doesn't fly Aeroflots, Aeroworlds, he has charters, and there he's being poured as much as he wants. I think it is. The question is, when a colleague of their former coalition broke up here in Kiev and flew to Frankfurt and set up a deboss. Well, that's right, we have to make sure that drunk militias don't fly. But here's another question, namely, compatibility, a compatible flight, for example Airworld and the Swiss company, Airworld and ER France, they're flying. The French pour beer, and our poor passengers are insulted: it is a violation of human rights and so on. I think we need to take this seriously, and the ban should be when. or at a stage when a person is going through a checkup. Because there's not a lot of water in the plane. Before that was possible for a trip abroad three drinks, and now if you give a hundred grams of beer or wine, you will not get drunk. So you have to think, really, and put control when they fly out, including the deputies there and other officials to sniff them out. Let him fly, give him a beer, let him sleep, let him drink, and let him sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-19-m0.u160	Thank you, dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? I can't see. Dear colleagues, the conclusion of the committee: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate to reject the bill. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act, registration number 5081, amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prohibition of the use of alcohol on board an aircraft. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:05]] For 1 For - 1, against - 13, held - 0, did not vote - 375. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, considering that the list of issues identified for consideration on May 19 is exhausted. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary meetings at 10 a.m. At 15 hours, committee meetings, factions, and work on drafts.
