ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:29]] Cards were registered in the 364 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Darda Aleksandr Panasovich, Igor Hennadyovich, and Yagofer Anatoly Mikolaiovich. Please welcome the people's deputies, wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 21 to 24 September 2010. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 82 issues of the agenda were discussed, 12 laws and 15 regulations were adopted, 17 bills were adopted, one bill was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 3 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 29 bills and one draft decree were rejected; 4 laws were adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, one law was rejected; 94 parliamentary requests were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, and according to personal statements submitted, I report the entry of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Kiselova Vasila Alexiyovich, Savchenka Igora Vasilovich, Vreevski Andrija Mihajlovich, Ivanenko Volodymira Grigorovič, Shepeleva Alexandra Alexandrovič, Kuzmenka Petra Pavlovich, Bogoslovska Inina Hermanovna, to the MP of the Party of Regions. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and according to a personal statement made, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Long Stanislav Alexiyovich from the MP’s faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” and his membership in the MP’s “Block of Lithuania” faction. [[Applause]] Another ad, my dear fellows. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the formation on 4 October 2010 of the parliamentary majority of “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the sixth call, which currently has 227 national deputies. The majority of parliaments have been created on the basis of an agreement on the formation of the parliamentary majority of the “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, signed by the heads of the parliamentary factions: the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the faction of the “Block of Lithuania”. [[Applause]] Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, statements, messages, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Yes, please put your name on the board. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, Mikola Tomenko. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u2	Honorable colleagues, trouble in a country where they do not respect authority, but even more so when there are problems with the legitimacy of this authority. What happened after a well-known decision by the Constitutional Court is, in my opinion, an extremely serious problem in understanding how the country will move forward. You know, in constitutional law, there's a so-called principle of legitimacy. If you ask the Ukrainian community today: does it think it's right that we erased six years of life and decided to live under the Constitution six years ago? – such a study has been carried out, and 13 per cent is the legitimacy of the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court. Instead, the wise Ukrainian people -- almost 60 percent -- said that the authorities needed to learn how to follow the Constitution and act on the Constitution. As far as legal legitimacy is concerned, I think without Parliament, the adoption of a decision on the old new Constitution is a cynical disregard for both laws and the Constitution. Parliament was so smitten that it was not even allowed to publish this decision to Parliament that, God forbid, something was confused. It has never been in our history that Parliament is afraid to make changes to the Constitution and even to print in its newspaper. Minust printed it. I'm not talking about the degree of political legitimacy of this decision, because everyone in this room on television shows swore that changes to the Constitution were only through Parliament. Today we have a text of the Constitution that is clear on what it's made for. Yesterday, I finally realized the main goal of why it was done. We were told: “Now Viktor Yanukovic has the right to fly for the third term.” Got it. Now I ask: What is the right of the Ukrainian people to do under this Constitution? And it's quite obvious to us that this is a decision that has effectively annulled the key function of the President as a guarantor of the Constitution, which has turned Parliament into a voting body, where there is nothing at all on this composition, any decision, because we can't even publish this decision. The government, which is a technical body, because right now, obviously, the President's Secretariat is deciding everything, and I'm not surprised that one day Victor Yanukovic, like Kuchma, will be called president at the President's Secretariat because other people will run the country. Therefore, our demands are simple, we would like to discuss at the Supreme Council meeting the situation that has taken place today in the country, because from our colleagues in most of the world we hear the third day when elections are to be held, the different mechanisms of the status of Parliament, government and the Supreme Council. So the sessions where we would listen to both the experts and the President ideally, the Constitutional Court, as our country's further development, which has survived the constitutional counter revolution, shows. Second position, we demand to register a special commission that investigated how it happened, that, practically, half of the same members of the Constitutional Court, who, a few years ago, did not even take such a submission into consideration, voted today that we had not lived in that country for six years. By the way, today we're going to be discussing an interesting question. If we make a decision on a special commission under the Constitution, the Supreme Council will do something to abolish the laws that it has adopted for six years, a unique mission to Parliament, to clear up the wrong decisions that we have approved in previous years. Therefore, we will also require a decision on the responsibility of the members of the Constitutional Court and the decision whether to rule on the early elections of the Parliament and the President. Two words regarding the local elections that are ongoing. It seems that the ideology proposed by the prime minister that everyone in the country should think by instinct of fear is being carried out daily, but there was no such thing as a tax police running around at night, and at what point were you asked: are you a member of the opposition party, or are you not a member? If you are a member of the U.S.B., you can go in and check at night. Therefore, we demand a special commission to protect businesses from political persecution that work in Ukraine in a civilised manner. By the way, fear of the governors is spreading, and in Cherkas region, we've been locked up on the floor where the governor was stationed, a helicopter was set up, and we can't even approach him alive. Evidently, she is already following the instructions in Azar. So once again, if the President is not a guarantor of the Constitution, society and opposition must become a guarantor of the Constitution and protect the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u3	Viacheslav Kirilenko, the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", will be followed by Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, NU-NS faction, Party “For Ukraine!” On October 2, 1990, 20 years ago, hundreds of students were on the edge of the Yellow Revolution Square and began protesting against the then Communist regime. We, the participants in the “Granite Revolution” did not demand anything for ourselves, but merely wanted to see our country free, rich and independent. And we've done our part: we've retired the government, we've removed the question of a bonded union treaty, and we've opened the way to Ukrainian independence. On this day, I welcome all the brothers who participated in the student “Granite Revolution” with the 20th anniversary of our campaign. I wish everyone the happiness, health, and political struggle that will result. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, neither the participants in the “granite revolution” nor any patriotic citizen of Ukraine can be at peace during the 20th year of independence: constitutional and linguistic problems are growing in order. I'd like to pay attention to these two problems. And not from a political point of view, but to look at the language bill that was introduced by the coalition, which now called itself the majority in terms of scientists. I quote a few conclusions from the National University of Kiev-Magilian Academy. Just a few standards. First, the analysis of the draft "Proton of Language" bill introduced on 7 September 2010 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine shows that it is based on the arbitrary interpretation of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. Secondly, the whole content of the bill gives us reason to believe that if it was adopted, in fact, the Russian language would be given the status of the second state language, which was contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thirdly, the bill distorts the essence of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which calls for the protection of such languages rather than establishing the status of languages and the order of their application. Fourth, Ukrainian-Russian bilinguality is interpreted in article 7 of the bill as an important acquisition of the Ukrainian people, ignoring the dramatic circumstances of the 18th to 20th centuries, when Ukrainian language and its bearers were under pressure and brutal repression by governments, both royal and Soviet empires. Next. Article 21 of the bill completely destroys the educational practice that has been established in Ukraine since the adoption of the Language Act in the Ukrainian RSR in 89. The introduction of the principle of free choice of language of learning and at any time of learning causes conflict on a language basis within the educational institution, seriously complicates the educational process, requires additional budgetary allocations and a significant expansion of the material base. Six. The bill does not take into account the fundamental requirement of the European Charter of Minority Languages that the protection and development of regional languages or minority languages should not harm the official languages and the need to study them. And the last. In the event of the adoption and implementation of the proposed language bill in Ukraine, a marginalization of the Ukrainian language will inevitably take place, the removal of it from the most important spheres of social life, which will lead to the disappearance of the Ukrainian nation as a systemic factor of independent Ukrainian statehood, the absence of motivation for the learning of Ukrainian language will lead to the prospect of linguistic isolation and the alienation of regions from one another. [[by communists, regionals and “Lithuania Block ”]] And the conclusion of the scientists at the Kyiv-Magilian Academy. It is necessary to develop a conceptually different, new law for the participation of professionals, not for individuals of separate political powers who have long been celebrating their lack of love for Ukrainian as a national language. And the last. This raises questions about these constitutional excuses that have been discussed in recent times in some parts of the country. These additional powers will lead to the President’s further attack and the Ukrainian language coalition, the national memory, the social protection of workers, the economic freedom of citizens, or will they lead to anything else? We are convinced of the first. And now that we've read about the need to review all the laws that have been passed over the past five years, I've thought about what the Constitutional Court is, which now writes that tens of thousands of laws must be reviewed within five years, probably hundreds of thousands of decrees and government orders, probably millions of local authorities' orders, and all of this is over the one-man agreement that has decided to concentrate absolute authority in its own hands. If this power is enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u6	If this power given by the Constitutional Court, which we consider to be a violation of the Constitution itself, will be used by Yanukovitch for the anti-Ukrainian rematch and the struggle against the Ukrainian people, our opposition will be strong and extraordinary. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u7	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Of course, the main event of the past week was the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish constitutional reform. And today, together with the need to bring legislation in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, in our view, a number of very serious problems must be addressed in order to protect the mere man in charge of the serious consequences of the financial crisis, and to protect many of them: both workers, peasants and students, and pensioners, to protect the fraudulent investors of credit unions and debtors of banks affected by criminally irresponsible policies, including, above all, the orange team. What do I propose on behalf of the faction? First, to return without delay to the issue of the imposition of a moratorium on price increases and tariffs until all payroll debts are repaid, irrespective of the form of ownership of the debtor undertaking: either a budgetary organization or a commercial enterprise. To commit the Government to present the country's energy security programme, coal industry recovery and the transition, where possible, to solid fuels for alternative energy sources. Secondly, along with the simplified way in which subsidies are granted to reduce the price of electricity for the population and thus compensate the cost of housing for the family. Maintain existing benefits for veterans, pensioners, disabled persons and other socially vulnerable sectors of society, and prevent the monetaryization of benefits, i.e. their replacements, called targeted subsidies. Thirdly, to urgently address the issue of the allocation of 1.8 billion grevens to repay the hopeless debts of the fraudulent investors of credit unions who believe in the State, believe in those they have chosen, believe and hope for support. Amendments to the Credit Union Act should also be prepared as soon as possible with a view to strengthening State control over their activities. Fourthly, prohibit banks from taking property from citizens to pay off consumer credit debts. To oblige banks to restructure such debts. All foreign exchange debt should be converted into currency bonds at the time of their completion. Fifthly, we insist on the inclusion in the Tax Code of a progressive tax on income and an additional tax on luxury, on vehicles costing more than $50,000, on yachts, aircraft, helicopters, villas, expensive jewelry, antiques, other objects and real estates in line with the approved legal list. We are also in favour of lifting the value added tax. Sixthly, with a view to ensuring food security, the budget for 2011 should provide the resources necessary to fill the reserve and purchase of grain from the villagers at prices, including world exchanges, in order to deprive grain traders of any opportunity to speculate and profit from the labour force of the village and budget money. It has already come to the conclusion that the Board of Entrepreneurs at Kabmin proposes to introduce food cards, as it did after the Great Homeland War. Seventhly, Ukrainian legislation entails liability, including criminal liability, for non-payment of wages, but in practice the offender is separated by small fines, that is unacceptable! I would like to inform you, dear fellows, that our Communist initiative is currently under way with the “Work. Protection. Salary.” Throughout a number of enterprises, we have been able to force owners to pay what was due on wages. Respected voters, Ukraine's dependence on international financial institutions and various international economic organizations have reached a critical point, and threatens the complete neocolonization of our country by transnational corporations. In cooperation with the IMF, it cannot be taken for granted as State surrender. It is at the request of the IMF that prices and tariffs are being raised today. It is at the request of the IMF that salaries and pensions are frozen, the retirement age is increasing, social programmes and public programmes are declining, and support is being provided. It is at the request of the IMF that people's labour resources are optimized that they get out of work. It is at the request of the IMF that education and health are fully commercialized. Therefore, I reiterate my appeal to the MPs, to the Government, to the President to show political will and to give up cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Let us, if there is doubt, hold a referendum and let people say whether they want the IMF's credit loop to linger on their necks, deprive the future generation of any hope of getting out of the debt pit. In the meantime, the court must seek alternative credit resources and investment sources for our economy. We should call upon those countries and organizations that would offer more favourable conditions than the International Monetary Fund for these loans and conditions that would allow us to make flexible use of our borrowings so as to send them as effectively and without prejudice to the social rights of workers to rebuild domestic production and the village. I think that's the kind of action I'm taking today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u10	I believe that this is what must be done in the Supreme Council in order to help producers in Ukraine to fill the market and our ordinary citizens to provide jobs and wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u11	Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block faction. Next is Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The country has embarked on another campaign. It is a time of various promises, cloudy and groundless, excessive and real, but life after elections does not end. It is known that ten national projects have been launched by the President of Ukraine. For Ukraine this approach is promising. I can say that on the basis of my own experience. It would be desirable if candidates for local councils, city, village, and rural positions were familiar with their content, since we would all have to work together on their embodiment. At the same time, we would like these national projects to have a more clear regional basis, since our country is not only Kiev or district centers, but also small towns, villages, where the roots of our people come from. A strange paradox: The more adult Ukraine becomes, the worse its roots feel. And near the point where the village's degradation process becomes irreversible. Poverty is recognized as the main problem in society. But let us ask ourselves: What do we mean by poverty, what steps are we taking to overcome it? If you take GDP per capita and average wages, compared to the European states, Ukraine looks like a state of total poverty. However, there is poverty caused by objective conditions, and it is due to negligence and linearity. There is sober labour poverty and there is drunkenness. And there is no need to match the general recipe for the treatment of these diseases. What do we have in the country today? On the one hand, powerful agroholdings that grow grains for export. I will send it to the National Report “New Reform Course in Ukraine 2010-2015”. Thus, from 2002 to early 2009, the number of farms owned and leased more than 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of land increased by more than threefold. The area of their ownership and use has quadrupled. At the same time, the number of enterprises with between 500 and 5,000 hectares has been steadily decreasing during this period. I'm going to notice that all of this is happening in the absence of a land market. As the classic put it, what is the nature of the earth’s order and the nature of the nation? On another pole, there is poverty and high unemployment in the countryside, catastrophic aging and shortage of personnel, which causes social tension and social conflicts, and this leads to economic risks. Investments, the more foreign investment will come only to large enterprises capable of making profits. There is only one hope for a small host: the state. The solution could be to develop a system of State support for the population and to restore a moderately progressive scale of taxation. This is not only about overcoming poverty but also about improving the health of the nation. Today, the private sector itself remains the main producer of fruit, vegetables, potatoes, milk, and meat. Ukraine is proud to be the leading producer of grain, but we must not forget that we are the leading importer of innocuous meat. By destroying fertilization, we produce vegetables and fruits. So let's take an area like animalry. Today, there is a resurgence of large - scale production. And that's right. Yet, much of the headquartering remains in the population. To develop successfully, it takes four elements to my mind. The first is the stern base. Credits are needed for peasants. Create a network of concentrated food-producing enterprises. The other one. Developing a network of veterinary control and tribal animals. This goal requires the development and implementation of targeted programmes with funding from all levels of budgets and control over the efficient use of these funds. Third. The private-houser’s system of purchases at economically sound prices. Four. Rural infrastructure development. We need to make the village populous, then the country will live. This requires a desire, political will, and professional MPs on local councils. The corporately selfish majority, who now dominate the local self - government, act only in their own interests and do not want to help the peasant, they just exploit him. So I hope that on October 31st, the electorate will make his choice consciously, vote in favour of professionals and their affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u13	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u14	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Ukraine has taken a decisive step towards restoring the rule of law, restoring conditions of efficiency, consolidation and accountability. The Constitutional Court made a long - awaited decision in contrast to the so - called 2004 polytreform. The illegal, chaotic, unsystemic changes in our Basic Law in 2004 destroyed the balance between the branches of power, the balance of authority, responsibility, and control functions. Normally and objectively, when ideologies, political powers, programs, State, social, and economic strategies compete. It is shameful to see a few years of opposition between the branches of power, enmity between the high-holders, which in fact damaged the development of Ukraine and undermined the authority of our state in the world. We need to recognize, directly and honestly, that over the past few years, the talented and hardworking Ukrainian people, Ukraine, as a state with enormous possibilities, have become hostages to the adventurous opposition of deconsolated power. The whole world is moving forward. And Ukraine lost its opportunities. 2009 The worst indicators of socio-economic development in Europe. The competitiveness of the economy is 152th place in the world. The level of corruption is 148. Questions relating to the tax system are 181 places in the middle of 183 nations around the world. The physical and moral wear of the core funds is down 60 to 70 percent. The quality of life of citizens. Wages are the lowest in Europe. The last of Moldova. Albania is behind us. It's a demographic situation. The rate of population decline is, unfortunately, one of the highest in the world. Human policy has turned into a portfolio trade, a fight for resources, which in the end has dramatically reduced the level, quality, efficiency of the government system as a whole in recent years. Therefore, honourable national MPs, respected compatriots, the need to form conditions of effective, consolidated authority, to increase society’s trust in the state, this is not a temporary political or personal situation, it is a requirement of time. The main prerequisite for Ukraine's exit from a deep, systemic socio-economic crisis is the formation of conditions for further development. No problem can be solved alone, only by uniting the efforts of society, the President, parliament, government, local self-government, to address the most painful problems that today are in the agenda and in parliament and Ukraine: the adoption of the Tax Code as a balance between fiscal enabling functions, including the middle class development strategy; investment and innovation development problems; and modern methods to improve the capacity of the internal market as a basis for Ukraine's economic security; the formation of an effective national export policy, energy conservation, energy efficiency, energy security. All of these issues need to be resolved almost immediately. Therefore, honourable national MPs, honourable fellow countrymen, we call upon everyone to consolidate political will, responsibility, to ensure the irreversibility of Ukraine's development as a modern state, to improve the quality of life of our citizens and to ensure confidence in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. With regard to the suggestions made in the presentations that need to be addressed properly to the authorities, I ask you to prepare these suggestions. As to the requirement to consider the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. When the document is registered, I mean, that's what I mean by studying the issues related to the decision of the Constitutional Court. The draft of the relevant decision has not yet been registered. We'll look into it. Regarding the proposals, a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be held. On Wednesday, let's ask this question for inclusion in the daily order. He'll include the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ask the committee to review it promptly, and we'll hold a special session. With regard to the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a Decision on Distrust of Members, Judges of the Constitutional Court. Let's put it into the agenda tomorrow, and we'll consider it according to the procedure. But provided that the decision is a positive or negative decision by the relevant profiling committee. With regard to the proposal for a decision on 20 years since the famous events in Maidan. Tomorrow this draft decision will be included in the agenda. I think the MPs will respond accordingly, and that's what they're going to do. With regard to the draft Law, and seven of them, speaking of languages, I would like to ask, honourable colleagues, not to impose passion, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not considering these documents. They're meant for expertise. When there is expertise and our political will, we will be responsible. Now this problem is not in time, and let's not excite a society excited by local elections. And as for the honourable colleagues, a variety of suggestions on the date of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's work. I know that the law can't be reversed, but together with you, dear colleagues, we have to adopt a bill amending the Constitution in this part, that the elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should take place in October 2012 and remove any speculation after 2015. Next, the election of the President of Ukraine will take place in March 2015 and remove any speculation on this subject. And the term of office of local councils and city heads will be four years. And if we take the changes to the law with you, the next election will have a five-year term, we'll have to enter a five-year term. And let's, my fellow Members, this week we're going to send an appropriate little amendment project to the Constitutional Court, and we're not going to be dealing with speculation. And for some smart people, I'm reminding you that there have been different kinds of decisions, you have to read the Constitution, which clearly states that now the election declaration is the prerogative of the Central Electoral Commission, not the deputy, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let us not show such a stirling political activity. As for the other suggestions that were made, I would then ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Now, pay attention! Now we're going to have to look at a number of issues and put them in the agenda first. Please prepare for the vote. This is the question of the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Ordinance on the enforcement of the Constitutional Court Decision of Ukraine of 30 September 2010 No20-pp/2010 on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the Act on the amendment of the Constitution of Ukraine of 8 December 2004 No2222-IV. Please vote. [[10:35:48]] For 238. Decision taken. I am voting on a motion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. And now the factions will be, let's vote. [[10:36:10]] For 239. Decision taken. Please, from each faction for 1 minute from this point. Sergey Sass, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, Sergey Sas, Liulija Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I'm addressing you, not your hairstyle, I'm sorry. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please! Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are obliged as chairman of the meeting to abide by the Rules. The Rules, part five of article 47, provide that they may only be included in the agenda of the day, and they may be considered at the next meeting. So you have no right to violate the Rules, now to decide on its consideration now, this issue. Please pay attention to this. And I ask you once again to make a point under article 29 of the Rules that we are obliged to follow the rules of the Supreme Council clearly until you have broken them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u17	Thank you. My dear colleague, I always take note with gratitude. I would like to point out that this will be discussed at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why you don't have a fever. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to tell you again, you have no reason to burn. I know the rules in this part, but thank you for keeping your tone. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov, then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u18	The distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, is the Constitutional Court's decision, which is recognized by all European institutions. The decision of the Constitutional Court is not contested. The so-called “polite reform” has landed in Lithuania. Today there is a version of the 1996 Constitution. Therefore, it is absolutely right for us parliamentarians to set up a commission so that we systematically and expeditiously implement the necessary legislative changes and harmonize Ukrainian legislation with the provisions of the current Constitution so that, based on the new Constitution, we can move as quickly as possible towards economic reform and the conversion of them into higher social standards of human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u19	George Carmazin, then Valentin Matthews. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you very much, you know the Rules of Procedure Act and you know the Constitution, there is no committee decision on this issue. What does he think? No one knows. The Constitution is also distributed to the Constitutional Court, which is now due to be overrun, sort of in a new version, but I would very much like to become six years younger, probably to you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich. But that's impossible. It can't be because the Constitutional Court's decision, as you understand it, is not constitutional, and it can lead to very serious consequences in society. That's the first one. And the second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Constitutional Court went beyond its authority, article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine did not authorize him to rule the Constitution. So let's not think about it in a shortcut, we don't have a right to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u21	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction. Then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have been given a fairly clear draft of the relevant decision to ensure the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 30 September of this year. I think there's nothing to argue about here, it's just that we need to look at this issue fully and make the right decision. In addition to the project. I'm sorry. In the statement added to the draft, the explanatory note clearly defines the basic positions of the project for which they are proposed. However, it is important to note that in the second part of the explanatory note there is a discrepancy because of the regulation. We both need to approve the commission's head and its deputies at the same time, and then we need to decide on the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u23	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, we are now discussing not the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I think the controversy, the discussion will still be in the media, and in civil society about the content of this decision. We have to do what we need to do, well, actually, the mission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The creation of the Temporary Special Commission is a necessity, and everyone understands that. And it's because of work, through the work of the Temporary Special Commission that you can analyze, and you can implement decisions. So if we don't do this now and we're going to run a lot of choroids around it, then there'll obviously be a lot of lawyers who will say that we can do without a temporary special commission at all, that in paragraph two, the Constitutional Court has decided definitively and otherwise. So I would like to draw attention to the content of the draft decision and to what is of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. At the same time, there is a requirement for two factions — the BUT factions and the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” — to announce a 30-minute recess to hold the Conciliation Council on the agenda of the plenary meeting. So the Conciliation Council was not enough, and another Conciliation Council was needed. I'm calling an 11-hour recess for 15 minutes. To the leaders of the MP factions, please meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will continue our work. Two factions demanded a break, and they took a break for the Conciliation Council. It took place emotionally and essentially on the basis of calls for compliance with the Rules and compromises. But at the same time, from two factions he is entitled to Boris Tarasyuk's performance with information about why the factions demanded a recess. Three minutes, please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Boris Tarasyuk People's Movement of Ukraine, NH-NS faction. I have the honour to announce, on behalf of the 10 opposition parties, an application for constitutional rebellion. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to return to the 1996 Constitution, adopted on October 1, 2010, led the country to a political crisis. The Constitution was found invalid in Ukraine after it had been the Basic Law for six years. In adopting this politically motivated non-professional decision, the Constitutional Court clearly went beyond its powers and violated the Basic Law of the State itself. The Constitution clearly provides for a special order of amendments to its text: “With the compulsory participation of the Supreme Council as an organ of the peoples of the world”. The Constitutional Court, called to protect the integrity of the Constitution, has the right to interpret it, but it cannot change the Basic Law of the State. And to determine, in place of the people and their legal representatives, which authorities are empowered to give. However, the Constitutional Court, which had previously replaced parts of the judges to the political-loyal to President Yanukovič persons, without taking into account the opinion of the people and the position of Parliament, had unlawfully given the President so many powers that the people did not give him in the elections. President Janukovic had sufficient authority before the Constitutional Court's decision: the full support of the government, most in the Supreme Council, the subordinate judiciary gave him the widest possible opportunity to fulfill the electoral promises. In seven months, however, no structural reform was initiated. This gives us reason to think: why does the current President have so much power for reforms that are not there, or for the satisfaction of his own political ambitions and the uncontrolled redistribution of financial and material flows? Among us are supporters of both the parliamentary and presidential forms of government, but we are the only ones in that the decision of the Constitutional Court has been rendered in grave violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine under the clear pressure of the President. In order to resolve the political crisis provoked by the Constitutional Court's decision, we demand. First. Retire the current composition of the Constitutional Court. His judges passed a series of apparently unjust political decisions, violated the oath of judges, disgraced themselves personally, and discredited constitutional justice in Ukraine. The other one. Urgently call on the Parliamentary Constitutional Commission to resolve problems related to the declaration of a decision by the Constitutional Court. Do not allow any changes to the Constitution without the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provided for by the Basic Law. Third. The Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u29	Let me finish. The 1996 Constitution has no less flaws than the 2004 text. Similarly, it is not in the interests of Ukrainian society today. We testify to the need for constitutional reform, which will give more authority to local self-government and reduce the powers of central executives. Four. Considering that the decision of the Constitutional Court greatly enhances the influence of administrative resources in the local elections, it is urgent to amend the electoral law that we have proposed to ensure that all parties have equal opportunity to participate in the elections and to monitor the integrity of their conduct. We are obliged to stop the machine of total forgeries running by the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u31	Fifth. I'm asking you to give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u32	Thank you, thank you. Time's up. I'll put it to the vote to continue the speech. Unfortunately, time is running out. Who's in charge, dear colleagues, was three minutes. 30 seconds – finish. Anatoly Sergiyovich, don't control it. 30 seconds. Finish up, three minutes. Huh? Finish up, please. Did I say 30 more seconds what do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u33	Fifth. We encourage candidates from our parties to conduct coordinated actions at the level of each area, the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u34	Calm down. Well, Andrew Anatolyovich, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u35	villages and cities. Six. Since the President and Parliament were elected on the basis of another Constitution for other terms, under other powers, to hold the presidential and Supreme Council elections on March 27, 2011. In the February presidential election, Ukrainian citizens did not give Viktor Yanukovich the much larger amount of authority he expects to gain through the restoration of the Constitution in the 96th edition. We declare that we will act together in order to prevent usurpation of power and legal chaos. We call on parliamentary opposition parties to take a consolidated position during the Supreme Council’s consideration of issues related to the Constitutional Court’s decision of October 1, 2010. The European Party of Ukraine, the National Movement of Ukraine, the Civil Position Party, the People's Self-Defense Party, the Reforms and Order Party, the Ukrainian Platform Party, the Fatherland Party, the Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u36	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich! Thank you, Your Honor! Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Conciliation Board discussed the proposal that tomorrow be an opportunity to consider the issue, and before that, to register the ruling, more specifically, the draft decision establishing the Temporary Investigation Commission on the investigation, as it were, of the circumstances associated with the Constitutional Court’s decision, even though there are certain factions that arise here, if you go to law. Is there any reason in the Supreme Council of Ukraine whether it has the right to review the decision of any court, including the decision of the Constitutional Court? But since there is such an insistence, please make sure that the relevant procedure and procedure are in place and collect proposals from all factions on this interim commission of inquiry. With regard to the special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will consider tomorrow the question of including it in the agenda. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine includes an appropriate committee, let it prepare a meeting, including with regard to the question of. consideration of the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Distrust to Judges of the Constitutional Court. Let's put in the agenda, prepare the relevant conclusions of the legal committee -- let's look at it, but as called for at the Conciliation Council, everything has to be done exclusively in the River Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And finally, I'm going to the press. A meeting of the Conciliation Council has just brought charges that yesterday, at the Conciliation Council of Journalists, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. I'm going to the press with an offer, with a request. Please tell me who got you out of here for a minute! – who escorted you out of the Conciliation Council Hall so that we could conduct a proper investigation. And at the same time, I call on the members of the Conciliation Board: press conferences and briefings you give after the end of the Conciliation Council. And since you have a lot of news, journalists are obviously a part or all of them coming out to listen to what we're going to do next. I'm asking you, without a scream, we'll figure it out if, dear fellows, we can work it out, please calm down. Don't shout. Now let's get on with it. I beg you, we continue to consider draft regulations for parliamentary hearings. This is a draft of Decree 7162 on parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine, Youth for a Healthy Lifestyle. [[November 3, 2010]] Do we need to include this in the agenda or has it been included? Jehovah’s Witnesses, 11 / 22 Since the draft decision was proposed 23. 09 is obviously not included in the agenda, right? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People in Ukraine "Youth for a Healthy Lifestyle". [[November 3, 2010]] Please identify yourself. [[11:37:51]] For 347 We've included this issue in the agenda and we can only consider it at the next meeting, obviously in the evening. I would like to vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the draft Ordinance on parliamentary hearings in 2011 on the health and rest of children and young people. [[February 09, 2011]] I remind you again, registration number 7117. About getting into the daytime. [[11:38:38]] For 345. We've included the question in the agenda. Then I ask you to prepare for the report on the basis of these suggestions at the evening meeting. At the same time, I inform the distinguished national deputies that we already have parliamentary hearings, as required by the Rules: 6.10 of the issue of the "Strategy of Humanitarian Policy of Modern Ukraine", 17.11 of the "State of Industrial Security and Labour Protection", 8.12. of the Ukrainians in the world and 12.01 of the "On the state and prospects of the production of hydrocarbons in Ukraine and the introduction of the State monopoly on this activity". Let us turn to the issue of ratification of draft laws. I announce for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Strategic Cooperation. Registration number 0180. The rapporteur is Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mohilov. Correspondent is the head of the Tax and Customs Committee's subcommittee, Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Strategic Cooperation is proposed for your consideration. The purpose of the law is to make the Supreme Council of Ukraine binding on our State on this agreement, which was signed in Kiev on December 4, 2009. The ratification of this international instrument testifies to the consistency of Ukraine in its decision to improve cooperation in the area of combating transnational organized crime. The European Police Office carries out general administration and coordination of the activities of the national law enforcement services of the European Union. Europol has already concluded agreements with international organizations such as the World Customs Organization, the European Drug Control and Drug Control Centre, the European National Bank, the European Commission, Eurojust and Interpol. Similar agreements have been made with countries such as Bulgaria, Iceland, Canada, Colombia, Moldova, Norway, Russia, Romania, the United States, Turkey, and Switzerland. The position of the agreement at this stage provides for the exchange of information that does not constitute a state secret, including strategic and technical information on the state and development of crime, new forms of opposition to it, methods of investigation and expertise, channels of money transfer obtained by criminal means. In the future, it will be possible to increase cooperation by entering into separate agreements that allow for the exchange of information with limited access. The procedure for making such an information exchange will also be agreed between Ukraine and Europol. The conclusion of this agreement will be the beginning of long - term cooperation between Ukraine and the European Police Office. The draft law is accepted without notice, according to the ministries, with the Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Committee of Financial Monitoring, the Security Service, the Ministry of Finance, the Administration of State Foreign Service, the State Customs Service, the State Tax Administration. The bill is also supported by a session of the parliamentary committee. The implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Strategic Cooperation does not require expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. Given that Ukraine is not a member of the European Union, it will not pay contributions to the European statutory fund. The adoption of this law will create the legal basis for a treaty to be valid for the purposes of our nation’s aspirations to deepen its practical interaction with the European institutions. Ukraine will be able to significantly intensify the fight against organized crime at the national and international levels. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the minister. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Odarchenko, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u39	“Paternity”. I give the word to Peter Petrovich Hashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u40	Repeat who you're giving the word to. Hashuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u41	I've got no questions. From the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u42	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u43	An honourable reporter, in principle, in support of this Agreement with the European Police Office, because the police do not always behave adequately with the opposition, could there be another decision to enroll Ukraine in the list of police states? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u44	Make an offer. I believe that you, as a national MP, have the opportunity to make such an offer, so make such an offer, and Parliament will consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u45	Andrew School, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u46	Thank you. I, of course, support the fact that Ukraine has to join the Europol, Your Honor Minister. Ukraine would have liked to have taken on the experience of the European police instead of using the methods that unfortunately are now being applied. But I want to ask you a very clear question. You tell me how the forces of Ukraine and those countries that enter the Euro gender will interact. And in what way do we make this deal, and what initiative did the Ukrainian Police and the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u47	Well, on part one of your first questions, I'll tell you what, you probably saw the events in France in 2007, the police there, the events in Germany, the police there. After this, if this experience is to be downloaded, let’s take a picture. He was pretty tough there. Regarding the interaction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the structures of the police countries of the European Union. This exchange of information is ongoing and now. The signing of this agreement will first demonstrate to the European Union our desire for Europe. Secondly, this interaction will have a legal basis. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u48	Victor Terrence, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u49	Dear reporter, the issue of transnational crime is really important, but you will probably agree that the issues that are related to crime within the country are equally important. And we have to be at the level of European standards clearly. So the whole country knows that a student was killed in the Shevchenkov Police Department. Last name, if you haven't forgotten, Indillo. And would you please tell me this case has already been put on hold? That is, there are absolutely no messages from either family or the media at all. So what are we going to Europe with? That's, you know, a very simple question on a very simple example.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u50	On this issue, which you are referring to, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has conducted all necessary official investigations. All verification materials are sent to the Office of the Prosecutor-General, which will take a final procedural decision. Prior to this procedural decision, it is not possible to refer to the guilt of any person. That is, the body whose competence it is to consider the matter must take the appropriate procedural decision. I think the D.A. will pick him up soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Minister, I have read this treaty carefully, and I am surprised by article 15, which says “Special warnings”, that the exchange of information does not refer to issues of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. As a result, no position of this agreement will interfere with any agreement on mutual legal assistance. You realize that this is extremely serious. On the contrary, I felt that I needed to keep working. Although this is not a claim for you, it is the previous government that made this deal, on December 4, 2009. And I have a question. This is about new ways of committing crimes, trends, and developing ways to commit crimes. Does the IMF now follow up on what is being done on the basis of the agreement of the Soviet Union with Cyprus, which is binding on Ukraine, to avoid double taxation? So money comes out of Ukraine. Are you investigating this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u53	Well, that's, you know, it's already these, more global issues that don't apply to this agreement. I will tell you that legal assistance between Ukraine and the countries of the European Union and Cyprus and other countries is ongoing. The acceptance of the deal that we are talking about today will enable us to do it more dynamically and more effectively, because so far, many of the issues of our mutual requests are ending in nothing, and we have no legal basis for it. Talking directly about Cyprus -- well, it's a big topic, it's separate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u54	Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u55	Dear Anatoly Volodymyrovich! Garbage, Party of Regions. Please tell me if we ratify this agreement, if we go back to the information, you remember, to your predecessor, Lucenka, who became a scandalous story at Frankfurt Airport. And then the authorities, the law enforcement agencies, including Germany, referred to this as confidential information, classified information. And this did not allow an objective consideration of the matter in Parliament, in which the commission of inquiry was created. If we ratify the treaty, will it really be possible in the future to get information when, in such a scandalous history, that corrupts Ukraine and us as a whole, we get it at the right time and without hindrance? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I'll tell you what. In principle, these are the first steps towards our integration into the police community of the European Union. Therefore, the exchange of information will undoubtedly be clearer. I'll tell you, from the Frankfurt conflict, well, for me, for example, there was only one surprise, and this year I flew to the Interpol Assembly, to the Interpol workshop, flew across Frankfurt, and I was escorted from one plane to another by three police officers in uniform and said that five more were out of shape. I said, "What's the problem?" They say, "We actually thought you'd turn in your cell phone." But my cell phone was left to me, thank God. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine in Frankfurt is now particularly concerned. To be honest, three were accompanied.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u57	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u58	Dear Anatoly Volodymyrovich, Minister, I'm here. Talk to Easy later. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, I have a specific question. Well, first of all, what I'd like to say to the predecessors about legal aid in specific criminal matters is that Ukraine signed nine years ago a corresponding second European protocol, but from now on we don't have ratifications -- that's the first. And as for the specific office of Europe, here is one question: what is the difference, let's say, from our membership in the international criminal police organization of Interpol and specifically the European office? What's new here, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u59	I'll tell you this: the Europol is more dynamic in its structure, let's say, it's more dynamic, as it were. Interpol, it's more conservative, requests go through longer periods of time, and Europol is more dynamic. And given that we are seeking to join the European Union and we are part of Europe, the European community has the advantage of speedier exchange of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u60	Vladimir Stretović, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u61	Mr. Secretary, please tell me how much money it will take to equip this office, because, I understand, Interpol will not be able to afford it. We're going to have to go from a government budget that's already tense to make some money to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u62	Our contributions to this structure will not be there, because Ukraine is not a member of the European Union and therefore no statutory contributions, we will not do so. And based on our existing Interpol structure, Interpol staff, we will build all relations with Europol on the basis of this structure. Therefore, we will not spend any extra money on this. The tasks of Europol and Interpol are close.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u63	Zabarsky National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u64	The well-respected Anatoly Vladimirović, of course, needs to support this law, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask you a question on the initiative to reduce the number of militias, because this issue is very serious and causes many of the curves around it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u65	I am. Thank you for asking. I have said on several occasions that the IMF system, in my view, requires major reform, and the problem here is the following. Indeed, the number of militias is specified by special law. So far, the militia's making up about 300,000, 295 with a small one. I'll tell you what the problem is: if you take those units that directly fight crime, they're public security units, criminal police units, investigations, investigations, expert services and so on, they have a total of 142 thousand out of 300. 142 grand. These are the persons who are engaged in the fight against crime and the protection of public order. 35,000 and a small one are the Department of State units, and 118 000, I stress, 118 000 are the units that provide police work. This figure, of course, is very high in my opinion, and her country's budget cannot be drawn. That's why those 118 grand are the ones we need to talk about. I want to assure everyone that those inspectors, the senior inspectors, the sergeants, the officers, the senior officials, the investigators, the senior investigators, the experts and the senior experts do not necessarily need to be reduced. It's just a management unit. Because this device itself gives birth to a bunch of papers, it provides for itself, it also loads up those who fight crime with unnecessary paperwork. The reduction would therefore be limited. The aim of this reduction is to raise the material welfare level, the welfare level of the militia, and the material level. He said very correctly at our meeting with the people's deputies, Deputy Beaz, he said the very right phrase, which Szeklokov said in due time: “The police, with such wages, are dangerous to society.” It's not supposed to be anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u66	Yes, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, please sit down. Any comments after the question has been resolved. Dear colleagues, now the word for co-reporting is given by the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u67	Stepan Kurpil, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Paternity Party”. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I represent, in this case, the Committee on European Integration, which is a profile in the consideration of this issue. Apparently, there has been some mistake in the daytime routine, which is likely to be corrected in the transcript. Our committee considered at its meeting the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Strategic Partnership. And he made a decision, recommending it to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. This covenant was concluded in Kiev on December 4, 2009. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and the Committee on Rules have also provided positive conclusions on the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, according to its conclusion, also notes that it generally supports the ratification of the agreement. This agreement is a framework international treaty aimed at strengthening the cooperation of EU Member States operating through the European Union with Ukraine in the prevention of serious forms of international crime, their detection, cessation and investigation through the exchange of strategic and technical information. Ratification of this agreement will create new legal principles for initiating strategic cooperation, primarily through the exchange of information and special knowledge between Ukraine and the European Police Office. It is this office that carries out the overall management and coordination of the activities of the national law enforcement services of the member countries of the European Union. Ratification of this agreement will also mean increased international cooperation in the fight against organised crime and will contribute to the tasks defined by Ukraine and the European Union in its relations. In particular, such a position as the establishment and implementation of a strategic agreement with Europol to strengthen cooperation in the fight against organised crime is foreseen in the Ukrainian-EU Action Plan on Justice of Freedom and Security, and the conclusion of an agreement with Europol is provided for in the agenda of the Ukraine-EU negotiations on association. For information, Europol has already signed similar strategic cooperation agreements with Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Colombia, Macedonia and Moldova. Russian Federation, Turkey. The Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. In addition, operating agreements are signed with Australia, Canada, Croatia, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland, and the United States. On behalf of the committee, I ask the Supreme Council to support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, this is the co-head, what questions might be before him? Well, please, if you have any questions, please, microphone. Please sign up for the questions. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u69	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Please tell me, was there at least any previous statistics on the committee that I would like to report today, in my opinion, to the deputies in relation to that -- and what is happening today in the plan for the transmission of such information, for example, how many European Union states have been calling on Ukraine for what assistance? Were they denied? How many crimes were committed with the participation of citizens of the European Union? On the contrary, in order for us to understand the need for this legal aid, which emerged from the plan of ratification. What I understand is, if we ratify a treaty, it prevents crime from being fought, and crime can't just fight if there's no strategic data, or if there's no data that tells us that we need to make decisions right now, including the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. The committee deals with various issues, and a very large amount of information, including statistics. And we invite government representatives, other organizations involved in the consideration of this matter, to our meetings. I have already mentioned in my statement that the agreement is a framework. This is not some Ukrainian know-how and Europol. Such an agreement exists between many countries members of the European Union and world society. So I don't think it's due to any special statistics. This is simply a necessary basis for the exchange of technical information, special knowledge, in order to combat international crime more effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u71	Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u72	Please give my word to my colleague Odarchenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Stepan Volodymyrovich, would you please say this ratification will help combat the spread of narcotics? Why do I ask that question? In Herson, U.S.A. chief Litwin made a statement to the media that the following term “Sicilian Mafia” is resting. He claimed that the woman head of the Reichsgericht of the district of Nimitulayeva in her lands was growing 20 acres [20 ha] of marijuana. After he did so, the U.S.V.A. quietly silences these questions, overturns them, and no one responds. I have a question for you and the minister. How it responds to such a European world level: 20 acres [20 ha] of marijuana is grown in Geneva.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Undoubtedly, this agreement provides a tool, provides the necessary legal basis to deal more effectively with both international crime and internal crime, particularly illicit drug trafficking, illegal migration, and so forth. But the effectiveness of this fight will depend on whether our law enforcement agencies, in particular the militia, will actually fight crime, whether they will "breathe" this crime. Here, if they do not “breathe, ” there will no doubt be success.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u75	Oleg Lazko, “BUT” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u76	Oleg Lazko. I agree with the Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Mohilov, that the poor police are dangerous to the state. That is how Anatoly Volodymyrovich is dangerous, for many crimes are committed by police officers apparently because they lack wages. But failure and the state, where expenses on law enforcement agencies are greater than education, medicine, and culture combined. This is our country’s problem. We're always talking about that you're running out of money instead of spending more money than I've already said on medicine, culture and education. And I think the government will take this proposal into account when preparing the budget next year. We have to take care of the future of the state. To do this, there must be healthy people, and there must be highly educated people and high - culture people. And if we care only about the number of handcuffs and rubber stakes, there is no such future. And with regard to the treatment of foreigners. Not just in Germany for everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u77	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u78	Not only in Germany, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, all over the world, but unfortunately, our citizens are treated with disrespect, starting with Moscow, where they are forced to take off their shoes, belts and so on and ending with your Germany. And this is where all the government has to work to make our citizens respect each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u79	Thank you. It was a wish. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. We talked about the agreement, but the binding text that is added, which we will ratify, is three more appendices to this agreement. In addition, the third is that according to the national legislation, the competent authority responsible for preventing criminal offences is seven bodies, i.e., besides the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there is the Ukrainian Security Service, which you know is now in favour of a company called Rossukre Energo, a fully criminalised, State Border Service Administration, State Customs Service, State Tax Administration, Financial Monitoring Committee and the Attorney General's Office. I have a question. Please tell the Explanatory Note that there are no risks of corruption. And you don't consider the State Tax Administration's work to be the kind of thing that now generates at the value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u81	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Indeed, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has noted that the treaty needs to be ratified with additions. In this case, these plugins, which you are talking about in particular, are integral parts, and the references to all three plugins are in the text of this agreement. Therefore, a separate saying that it is not just a supplement agreement that needs to be ratified is not mandatory. There is no doubt that some things were declared, promised when the President went to power, and other things are happening now. We remember that there was an automatic VAT return. There is absolutely nothing about it, but the amount of unreturnable VAT has increased several times compared to what happened before. So this is undoubtedly a violation of Ukraine’s international obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u82	Thank you. Time's up. Stepan Volodymyrovich, you may sit down. Your Honor, no objection to putting this document to the vote? Please prepare for the vote. The proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Police Office on Strategic Partnership is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0180]] Please vote. I asked if I wanted to discuss it. Everyone kept quiet. There's a vote coming. I offered you. Everyone said they didn't want to speak. [[12:07:28]] For 302 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we should consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in ensuring the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. [[Registration number 0181]] There's a proposal from the committee to consider this issue in a simplified way, because we have a lot of ratifications. Please vote. And while the vote is coming, a great request is made to you, dear fellows of honor. Since we have already had our breaks, we have to work without interruption until 14 o’clock. [[12:08:06]] For 201 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the State Committee on Nationality and Religions, Popok Andriy Andriyovich. And the co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! The foundation for initiating bilateral cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova was the agreement on good neighbourliness, friendship, cooperation ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in November 96. Articles 7 and 8 of the Treaty contain mutual obligations of the parties to guarantee the rights of persons belonging to national minorities in full compliance with international standards of expression, preservation and development of their ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity. To protect against any attempt at assimilation against their will. According to the 2001 census, there are 258,000,619 people living in Ukraine. In Moldova, according to the 2004 census, more than 442,000 Ukrainians, 160,000 of whom live in Transnistria. During 2007-2008, the Statecommunity, together with other interested central executive bodies, prepared for an agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in ensuring the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. The draft agreement is prepared in accordance with article 9, paragraphs 2, 3, of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. In order to implement the provisions of the agreement, to support, to consider joint programmes and actions, an inter-governmental Ukrainian-Moldov Commission on the protection of the rights of national minorities, as provided for in article 12 of the Agreement, should be created. In this area of legal regulation are the following legal acts: Constitution of Ukraine, Law of Ukraine "On National Minorities in Ukraine", Act of Ukraine "On Ratification of the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe for the Protection of National Minorities", Act of Ukraine "On Ratification of the European Charter of National Languages or Minorities". There is no need to amend existing legislation. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional funding from the State budget. It is predicted that the costs associated with the implementation of the agreement and the provision of mixed activities by the Intergovernmental Ukrainian-Moldov Commission on the protection of the rights of national minorities will be met.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u85	The bill is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Education and Science, the State Committee of Television and Radio, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics. Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova in ensuring the rights of persons belonging to national minorities will ensure the implementation of constitutional provisions to increase the level of satisfaction of national cultural and linguistic needs, both for Ukrainians living in the Republic of Moldova and for Moldovans living in Ukraine. In view of the foregoing, please ratify the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Belarus Oleg Grigorovich. Please, Oleg Grigorovitch, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u87	Dear Head, Honourable People's Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on Cooperation in Guaranteeing the Rights of Persons Belonging to National Minorities and has unanimously recommended it before the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ratification of the Treaty will indeed contribute to the expansion of the sphere of humanitarian cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova in ensuring the rights of persons identifying themselves as national minorities, creating appropriate conditions for the preservation and development of their ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity. The implementation of the law, as the reporter has already reported, does not require additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the treaty. Please support the committee's recommendation decision on foreign matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u88	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Peter Petrovich Hashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u90	National Deputy Hassuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u91	Thank you. I have a question for Andriy Andriovich Popak. Please tell me now that the ratification project is being signed, whether Kabmin is considering increasing aid to the thousands of Ukrainian diaspora living in Moldova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u92	And I think that after we're done with this question, you're going to have to answer it, because there's no way we're going to answer it. Please, Gregory Smythech, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies, Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Of course, as a result of integration into the international community, Ukraine needs our documents and legislation to meet and protect international standards, so to speak, and to protect our citizens first. And what today, you know, is that there's a Moldovan Republic next to our country, and there's a large part of the Ukrainian diaspora that has our citizenship. And it often needs protection, including intervention on the part of our nation, but not just protection in terms of ratification of treaties, but protection in terms of their need to be maintained, including materially. When it was a question of whether or not they needed money to ratify the agreement, I think they needed money. And it's going to have to be said to the Ministry of Finance that if we ratify such agreements, and, indeed, this agreement is not just a symbol, and this agreement is aimed at supporting our citizens and their interests, and their rights as our countries that are outside our country, then, of course, Ukraine needs to also allocate funds to ensure that these rights or these interests are protected by financing one or the other cultural or other programs. And if this funding is going to be, then it's going to be a reality, it's going to be a spirit, and it's going to be an answer because the state really cares about citizens who, for some reason or another, are outside but are citizens of Ukraine. And this will be a concrete contribution from Parliament. So I'm going from this rostrum to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Ministry of Finance to predict in the budget each year an increase in funds that will actually be sent to implement this agreement, including this agreement. I ask you to support this agreement, but I pay attention to the questions that I have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u94	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this treaty is, of course, to be ratified. But it is totally false that government officials claim that the implementation of this agreement does not require spending. Any man who reads this agreement will understand: well, for example, article 4 stipulates that the parties recognize the rights of persons belonging to national minorities to use their written and oral languages in private and social life, to have access to information in that language, to disseminate and exchange information freely, including the right to have the media in their own language within the limits set by the laws of the parties. I want to ask. Today, we were given xerox from the 1996 Constitution. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, sadly, cannot return to Xerox six years ago. I want to ask you, how are Moldovans going to get xerox in Moldovan or not? Well, that's, you know, we're getting ridiculous. Or Article 5 of the Constitution: “They favour persons who belong to national minorities in the teaching of their native language or in the learning of their native language in public educational institutions”. It takes money. Or article 9, which says “that the parties must create their social associations and have the same rights as the others.” Or 10th, we have and are now obliged to teach: “Study in the general educational institutions of the history, traditions and culture of the countries to which ethnic minorities belong”. I would like to say, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, that it would be very good if you gave your story to our officials and, in particular, to Mr. Azarov. Then he would realize that he cannot be completely ignored today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u96	Interesting, please, let it end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u97	I'll finish. That you can't completely ignore the rights of the Ukrainian nation. And what we're talking about is we're molded, we're Bulgarian, we're ignoring everyone else we've made these deals with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u99	So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, special hearings will have to be held.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u101	And your story.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u102	Thank you. That's good, that's true. Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u103	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor to ask a question to all of us. We're in the middle of two agreements right now, ratification of two agreements. The first is humanitarian, the second is free trade. I think the hall will support them and do the right thing. But another question arises: How do we view our international relations with each individual country as a complex process, as a system process, or as a production of individual contracts? In 99th year, everyone knows about it, and I've talked to you from this rostrum over and over again, we've concluded a border agreement, we've ratified it in 2000 with the Republic of Moldova. The Moldovan treaty has not yet been implemented. Ukraine has passed part of the coastline, Moldova has an exit to the Black Sea through the Danube, 7.7 miles [7.7 km] of road in the area of Palanca on the side of Moldovan Ukraine, and it has been 10 years. I have a question: Or are we going to have a complex and systematic approach to our relationship with a friendly, fraternal, neighboring state, but is this going to be a process of confrontation? We can't go to the riverside of this process, and we're sorry, we're just spitting, by the way, not that big a state anymore. I don't know how to qualify Vladimir Mikhailovich, but there's something to be done about it. We can't go in the same direction when the other state isn't going in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded, the committee proposes approval of the relevant law. I am voting on the proposal for approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in ensuring the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, registration number 0181. [[12:21:03]] For 271 Decision taken, thank you. I am announcing a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the removal from the free trade regime of the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova since 13 November 2003, registration number 0168. The offer, fellow believers, to consider this issue also through a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:21:44]] For-183 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Muntián Valeriy Ivanovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Belarus Oleg Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, the Free Trade Agreement, signed on 13.11.2003, is in force between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, according to the Law of Ukraine, since Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Under this agreement, the parties do not apply tax and congregation duties, nor do they apply quantitative restrictions on exports or imports from both sides. At the same time, during the operation of the previous agreement, the party, motivated by the need to protect the internal market, adopted appropriate decisions by governments to remove free trade: Moldova first removed sugar, sugar syrup, sugar syrup, sugar confluence, alcohol and alcohol; Ukraine from its side sugars, sugar syrups, sugar beet seeds, leather and black metal scraps. At the same time, Ukraine’s laws became effective. The provisions of these laws require the removal from free trade of black, laminated black and colored metals and the use of semifabricated metals. For the purpose of resolving this issue, it was signed on 21/04. In 2009, the protocol in Chisinau between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the removal from the free trade regime of the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova since 13 November 2003. Thus, the protocol signed on 21 April 2009 in Chisinau actually recorded the deletion previously introduced by the parties in a unilateral order. Added: black, alloy, and colored metal scrap metal, as required by the laws of Ukraine. Returned to free trade Ukrainian sugar confectionery. Given that this document deals with the issue of the regime of Ukrainian-Moldov trade by way of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u107	ratify this Protocol by adopting the relevant law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovitch, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u109	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed and discussed in detail the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol and adopted a recommendation decision to the Supreme Council on the ratification of the Protocol. The effectiveness of the committee’s stated protocol will, indeed, provide an opportunity to protect the interests of domestic producers both in the internal market and in the external market. According to the Mineconomy, the implementation of Ukraine’s legislation will not require additional costs from the State Budget. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Rules Committee, the Committee on Budget Affairs reviewed the bill and also concluded that its implementation would not have an impact on the income and expenditure, but that the preservation of the removal from the free trade regime would provide some protection against imports of particularly sensitive sectors of the economy of Ukraine. Please support the committee's positive recommendation decision in foreign matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If anyone insists on speaking, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u111	Of course, the honourable colleagues that we need to ratify this agreement are expanding Ukraine's economic potential. And it's a good thing it's marked by ours. Our own ships will have a prerogative, our merchant fleet will have a prerogative when entering the ports of this country. I think there's general phrases, but I think that's something that needs to be supported today, because that's a positive thing. And I want to read one quote to you with a few more seconds. I quote: “You shouldn’t invent a new constitutional bicycle or go back to an old model of power that the vast majority of political powers refused in 2004 is unrealistic. The attempt to abolish polytreform will be regarded by most societies as a return to the era of totalitarianism and will never allow this to happen," is a quote by Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u112	That's Gregory Smythew, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u113	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Of course, when it comes to ratifying such agreements, it is the first time that the MPs need to give statistics, then it is understandable why we include them in the goods of free trade between countries, why we exclude them. And then it'll be clear. For example, I don't understand, at first glance, if we're like an agrarian country, if we're producing sugar, especially alcohol, we know today that our alcohol industry is in decline. Why? Because markets restrict our access to raw materials that have traditionally been with the Soviet Union. For example, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and other countries have severely restricted the introduction of tariff or excise taxes. If I look at, at first glance, the previous government before these protocols were signed, it was done correctly. Because Ukraine has these opportunities, Ukraine needs a market crash, and another plan needs to protect them. Did Moldova produce enough sugar for export? Not with the Soviet Union. Does it produce enough sugar today? No, it's not. If it's producing raw materials, then we have to make such an appropriate change that this production was their local or vice versa. And so I think that this approach would have a more concrete effect. As far as the confectionery is concerned. Well, you remember that last year, when he was Minister of Prague, he signed this agreement on behalf of the government as part of the expansion of the Free Trade Zone. Of course, this should be welcomed, or supported, in that Ukrainian air conditioners have the prospect of entering the market and the same way that the free trade area is being introduced. But there are more important issues of Ukrainian production where export opportunities are needed. For example, machine-building is a wider agricultural product that has a high degree of processing and other products that Ukraine still has or is able to enter one market or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u114	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u115	So I certainly support this agreement. But I would like Ukraine to take a pragmatic approach in the future and to defend its interests in the priorities of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. On ratification matters he never writes like he wrote this time. “To make an informed decision” is the quote, “we consider it appropriate to provide information on the possible impact of the ratification of the protocol on Ukrainian-Moldov economic relations”. Thus, the expert board says no to this agreement. Why does it say that? And the answer is in the list of goods that lie there. So the molded ones will not give us 5 groups of goods: sugar, other sugars, sugar beet seeds, ethyl alcohol and ethyl alcohol undenatured – 5 positions. And the Ukrainians have 36 positions. Look closely. Including what we produce, i.e. ferrochrome nickels, ferrospytes, wastes, scrap of black metals, alloys on sleep copper and lead, based on copper and zinc. I will not vote in favour of an agreement that makes my country's economic situation worse. And I urge the government of Azarov to do a good analysis, a thorough analysis of what is now being written about by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Speaking of which, we still have a deal in GUAM, in the middle of GUAM. And now here our colleague is referring to the decision of the Constitutional Court. I'd like to tell you an unprecedented thing. There's a stenographer in front of me. A colleague once spoke: “The government, which was usurped in one hand, was handed over to representatives of the people. These changes, which are proposed by constitutional reform, are extremely positive and we should vote for them." This is a performance by the national MP Marcus. Now the same national deputy as the Constitutional Court judge voted in favour of unconstitutional changes, or recognition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u118	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u119	I'm finishing up, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I'm telling you. This is an unprecedented event. Man had no right to vote on the matter. But once this has happened, at least note this. That's what I'm going to do now, especially your faction, after lunch. Don't do that because it's a disgrace to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Elimination of Free Trade Regime to the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova of 13 November 2003. [[12:33:05]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on trade and economic cooperation. [[Registration number 0172]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:33:38]] For-198 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Muntián Valeriy Ivanovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Belarus Oleg Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft law is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on trade and economic cooperation signed in Kiev on 9 October 2009. The agreement is aimed at developing a partnership between Ukraine and the Republic of Pakistan in the commercial and economic sphere on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. The agreement provides for the provision by the contracting parties of one regime of the greatest contribution in all matters of trade and economic cooperation in accordance with the GATT WTO. Each contracting party will provide goods that come from another contracting party or export to the territory of another contracting party a non-discriminatory regime regarding the use of quantitative restrictions on the granting of licences. Under the agreement, contracting parties encourage the opening of representatives of external economic organizations of companies, banks, and other commercial institutions. They promote relationships between individuals and legal persons through visits, delegations, and business meetings. The effectiveness of the said agreement and the implementation of the provisions will contribute to the development of bilateral trade and economic relations between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in various areas of cooperation. The implementation of this law does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on Trade-Economic Cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u122	Thank you. You. Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u123	Dear Head, Honourable People's Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on Trade-Economic Cooperation and recommended it before the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This was preceded by a special meeting with the newly appointed Ambassador of Pakistan to Ukraine, which noted that Pakistan is a huge sector of the Asian market in Ukraine and the regulation of time trade and economic cooperation. Ironically, until now, Ukraine has no direct aviation connection with Pakistan. Therefore, the implementation of the law will undoubtedly contribute to the development of a mutually beneficial relationship between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, in the commercial and economic sphere, in the military and technical sphere, in an educational series based on the principles of equality and mutual benefit. According to the Ministry of Economics, as has been said here, implementation of the law will not require additional spending from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Committee of the High Council on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Rules, the Committee on European Integration and the Scientific and Experimental Administration consider the ratification of the Agreement to be possible and appropriate. Please support the committee's recommendation decision on foreign matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u124	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up and discuss the matter. Names of the national MPs, please. Gregory Smythech, then Eugene Good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have once again taken the floor to say that I do not agree with the view that the committee and the representative, the deputy minister of the economy, are saying that if we ratify an agreement between a country, especially in the field of economics and cooperation on economic issues, the country does not need additional financial resources. I don't get it. If we have to ratify the agreement with the same Pakistan, and this is really a big country, it's really a big market for us, because our competitiveness of our products doesn't always correspond to quality and quantity, especially with European countries if we combine countries or countries of the great eight, right? Of course, Pakistan is a very important trading partner. Then I understand the following. If that's the priority of the state, if we give bilateral attention, why don't we invest money, why don't we say openly that the state needs money and needs to anticipate it. If funds are provided, if there are responsible people, if a special trade mission is created in the same Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then more attention should be given to this direction and the best possible contribution should be made so that our manufacturers do not seek for opportunities that are very often small, yes, and that the State should actively offer support to these enterprises. I'll tell you a little bit about it, the budget needs to provide for costs by type of export agency abroad, such as the United States, Japan, Italy and other countries, which specifically provide for costs aimed at supporting export opportunities, especially in fixed-term investment and other programmes. This will enable our businesses, especially those companies that can still compete in machine building, shipbuilding, aircraft building, etc., to contribute to the ability to export high-tech industries to markets that we can still defend. So I want to call the Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u127	Please note this. And let's open up funds and contribute to our Ukrainian businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u128	Eugene Goodyak, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u129	Good guy, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, despite the global financial crisis, which had a major impact on the economic development of both Ukraine and Pakistan, there was a very positive trend in the Ukrainian-Pakistan trade in 2009: with a positive balance towards Ukraine. However, one of the promising articles in Ukrainian exports was, and remains, the production of the metal industry, the chemical industry, the machine-building, the agricultural production. However, in some promising areas of economic relations, trade and economic relations have been sporadic: the absence of regular high-level political and intersectoral contacts reduces Ukraine's chances for all projects in which Pakistan's leadership seeks to enlist government support and appropriate Ukrainian authorities. And the main factor that has a negative impact on the dynamics of bilateral trade is the lack of development of a contractual legal basis. Therefore, the request, colleagues, to support this draft law on the ratification of this agreement, bearing in mind that the Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan has ratified this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on trade and economic cooperation. [[Registration number 0172]] Please vote. [[12:42:21]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Georgia on free trade since 9 January 1995. [[Registration number 0173]] Suggestion: To consider this question by a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:42:59]] For 208 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Muntián Valeriy Ivanovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Belarus Oleg Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u131	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, is now operating a regime of free trade under the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Georgia on free trade since 9 January 1995. Under this agreement, the parties do not apply customs, taxes, congregations, or quantitative restrictions on exports, or imports of foreign goods, which are the most favourable conditions for party owners. In order to properly comply with the terms of the contract, such as regarding mutual preference to the goods of the parties, paragraph two of the articles is one provision for the application of the rules, the identification of the country of origin of the goods adopted by the SND framework in the entry into force of September 24, 1993. At the same time, with a view to determining the country of origin of goods within the SND, an improved rule is now being applied, according to a decision of the board of heads of government of the SND “On the rules for determining the country of origin of goods” signed on November 30, 200 in Minsk. With a view to bringing the provisions of the bilateral Treaty of 9.01.95 into line with today's realities, the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia was signed between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Georgia on free trade in Kiev on 17 June 2009. The draft law went through all internal procedures to improve their validity. In view of that, I would like to support the proposal for the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u132	Yes, thank you, too. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u133	The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, committee in foreign affairs at its meeting on 22 September, carefully reviewed the draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia on free trade since 9 January 1995 and made a positive recommendation on the ratification of the instrument. The ratification of the protocol will indeed contribute to the development of the regime of free trade between Ukraine and Georgia and to the development of trade and economic relations and to the increase of trade between our two countries. According to the Mineconomy data, it will not have any additional expenditures from the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Rules, the Committee on Budgetary Questions addressed this issue, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office also supports the ratification of this agreement. Please support the committee's positive recommendation decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I have this document, which we are ratifying today, and the essence of it, and to attach it to the previous signed documents between Ukraine and Georgia, to the decision of the Heads of State of the SND. But I went up to this rostrum to say this. Just a few years ago, we thought of Georgia as, forgive me, just an unfortunate country that had fallen into such colossal patches that had survived, literally, three civil wars that destroyed its economy, destroyed its people, in principle destroyed even the normal mood of the Georgian nation. Especially was the last war that broke through and literally swept its waves right under Tbilisi. It would seem that Georgia would be permanently stuck in the past, long ago, to deal with these internal conflicts all the time. We were also told that the opposition was already literally one step ahead of us to move from opposition to power. So today we have a wonderful country, which, if you'll excuse me, I'll say, literally wiped out everyone's nose. Today there is a government of young Georgia, where only two ministers are 32 years old and the rest are many younger. It was those perhaps Chicago boys, but the Georgian spill, who ended up in prisons abroad, who were highly educated, who were not corrupt. And today Georgia is on such a colossal rise. Let's go to Georgia today, big investment. All of this is being built today by the most modern, newest hotels. Today, really, not like last year's Party of Regions on paper has doubled their wages to their people, and now they've forgotten forever and ever about it. On the contrary, the wages of inflation continue to decline. But today, you know, the police have completely changed. We were just talking about the Ukrainian militia. There's an absolute youth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u136	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u137	There's people all over the place. The interior ministry is built literally out of glass as evidence that it is a completely transparent structure. This is where we need to set an example. Once again, Saakashvili proved to Yashchenkov and to us that even such a small country could rise very quickly if there was democracy, if there was a political will of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u138	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Prepare the Smiling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u139	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party, “Block of Lithuania”. An interesting suggestion was made about the Chicago boys. But I don't think Ukraine has to go this way, because Georgia is successful that it's not the Chicago boys that came, but the Georgian boys, actually, the Georgian patriots. I don't think we should take that kind of experience. With regard to the content of this agreement, it benefits Ukraine first and foremost. And largely because of the fact that there is a fairly influential Georgian diaspora in Ukraine. As a rule, our Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has to cooperate, is well understood by this word, presented by a large number of active young businessmen of Georgian origin and citizens of Georgia. And that's why that's exactly what this fence is in a good way, this placer that can be used by Ukraine to develop relations with Georgia. I would also like to add that Oleg Grigorovich said it would facilitate the trade between Ukraine and Georgia, adding that it would be a full-blown or full-fledged regime of free trade, which unfortunately there are not many other countries in Ukraine that we would like. So I think there are no obstacles to our positive decision. And the relationship on the economic plane with Georgia can be a measure of activation and dynamism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u140	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. On the previous speaker, I'll tell you what Ukraine has done in the last five years. If Ukraine had the opportunity and did nothing, we refer to what was done in Georgia. So why and who prevented us from taking at least some steps in this regard that we would be proud of or saying that we did. And we did it like a country that can do something. Another question. You know what I've said before, unfortunately, there's no statistics, of course, I predict that Ukraine really has more opportunities than Georgia does. Because Ukraine is a bigger country and to contribute to Ukraine's ability to have an expertise better – it will be a positive one for our economy. At the same time, I pay attention to the Ministry of Economics, when meeting with the population of Ukraine, it is often said that there are a lot of goods in Ukraine that do not match the quality or do not match the mark or the country of origin. These are primarily wine products. Because there are many complaints that wines that are not produced under the brand of “Georgian wines” are not produced in the quantity in which they are distributed in Ukraine. You remember that in Russia it was a scandal and Russia closed up, so that the surrogate or counterfeiting of the Georgian brands that have a world, so to speak, did not affect the health of our people. So I would really ask that Ukraine pay attention to statistical data: how much is being sold, how much is being imported. This refers, by the way, to the water "Borjomy", which is distributed in Ukraine in every food establishment, and unfortunately, it is not, in my opinion, imported into the quantity in which it is distributed. I have a question: Where is it made, why is it done, and is it not a surrogate that affects the health of our citizens? As far as the deal is concerned. I certainly support her. And I ask my colleagues to support the plan because Ukraine really has the opportunity to go to this market, the Caucasus market, and allow our goods to take a decent place in the market of Georgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the draft Law. [[Registration number 0173]] The committee believes that this agreement can be ratified. In case you have no objection, I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Georgia amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Georgia on free trade since 9 January 1995. Please vote. [[12:54:40]] For 330. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to put a number of issues in order right now, please. It's about putting the daily draft of the Cabinet of Ministers Act into order. It's about getting into the agenda. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Ukrainian Act, which you're given, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7208]] Please vote. About getting into the daytime. What's not happening? We're not looking, we're just putting it in order. We're just putting it into the agenda. [[12:55:52]] For 246 The bill is included in the agenda. Now there is reason to continue working on it. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on rent relations. [[Registration number 7098]] Please vote. [[12:56:34]] For 244 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on natural gas and electricity calculations. [[Registration number 7115]] Please vote. [[12:57:07]] For 225 May I have your attention, please? Who's in favour of going back to that question, please vote. To return to the consideration of this matter, please vote. [[12:57:33]] For 244 We went back to discussing the matter. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on natural gas and electricity calculations. Registration number 7115. Please vote. [[12:58:04]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Market Surveillance and Product Control has been announced. Registration number 6694, 6694-1. Taking into account your persistent request and even your request, I am voting on a motion to consider the matter in a simplified manner. There are two suggestions. I put the first one to your vote. Not yours, and then yours. [[12:58:51]] For 199 Decision taken. Reporters: President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko and head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u143	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko is a representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine is introducing a draft Ukrainian Law on Market Surveillance and Product Control for consideration by Ukrainian national deputies. This project establishes legal and organizational arrangements for market surveillance and product control. The aim of the bill is to further adapt Ukraine's legislation to the EU's technical regulation legislation. The main problem faced by domestic producers is the numerous monitoring, surveillance and inspection bodies. In order to compete effectively with foreign producers and benefit from the advantages of trade opportunities from WTO membership, it is important to base and minimize administrative supervision and control as far as possible. Thus, market surveillance will not be an additional system of government oversight and control in the field of economic activity, but will replace the existing system of State oversight of compliance with standards, norms and rules. The adoption of the Ukrainian Market Surveillance and Control Act will allow the introduction of an active market surveillance and product control system in Ukraine in accordance with European and world practices, increase the transparency of the product market introduced in Ukraine to ensure a more effective implementation of consumers' right to product safety. The proposed bill is supported by the government and is recommended for adoption by the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship in its first reading. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have already approved in our first reading a law on non-inclusion of dangerous products in Ukraine. They go together, so there is actually a proposal to support this bill in the first reading and shorten the deadlines for its preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u144	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u145	With the next plenary week to review and regulate these two laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u146	Thank you. Please have a seat. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please. Mikhail Chechtov, please, for this matter. As it should be, we'll ask Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u147	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished deputies! The Committee considered two alternative bills and the President's Act and the author's law. [[6694]] [[6694-1]] It must be said that the Committee on Industrial Policy, in fact, when making decisions, never put political expediency at the top of the agenda, but, above all, looked at the content of the law and its importance for the country. The Committee therefore supported Presidential Bill 6694 in its first reading, in favour of and against and professionally evaluating both bills. And I propose the same thing: to support the Committee's decision by adopting draft 6694 Presidential on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u148	Xenia Leapina. Kseniya Mikhailovna, please refer to Bill 6694-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u149	Thank you, fellows of honor! Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear ones, we are considering a bill that we have dreamed of for many years. In fact, it was originally developed by President Yushchenk's Administration. Sadly, then, he was not supported by that valid coalition. Then the people’s deputies made their choice. Now, fortunately, President Yanukovic has brought in. And despite the fact that I am political in opposition to the President, nevertheless, a bill that is actually a serious reform will be supported. I understand that there is much more chance of supporting the Presidential Bill today. Moreover, I was surprised that many positions there were reflected even more boldly and less compromisingly than we did in our parliamentary bill. Because it's a matter of change in radical, virtually profound change in supervision and control of ready-made products in circulation that is actually today, well, question number one for all of our further efforts in the area of product safety control reform. Moreover, it is today a stumbling block in the negotiations on the free trade zone with the EU. Because the old way of controlling what we still have, but look, Russia has already given up on it, and I'm not talking about Georgia, which has completely eliminated the state standard as a phenomenon, has accordingly given up the old way of controlling it, and so on, in fact, it's never worsened the quality of production on the web in a fragmented way. On the contrary, it has contributed to the improvement of other modern systems of effective control. Because in government control it is very important to ensure its effectiveness. And that means efficiency and the minimum cost of control. Today, unfortunately, that control that's going on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u150	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u151	by the old law, it's different by two things. It's very burdensome for entrepreneurs, it's expensive for the state, and it doesn't really guarantee that you get online, really, safe products. It's like all the bugs there are. The bill that's being proposed, and one and the other, but we also support the president's, because it has more chances, in fact, allowing for a system of control that will be unburdened, sufficiently optimal in terms of state spending, and will actually provide security of production in a fragmented network. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. If we don't, we'll vote. Names of the national MPs, please. Natalia Royal, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, both bills have the primary objective. The first objective is to ensure market transparency and to introduce standards that will help determine the origin of products that are dangerous or do not meet the requirements. The system of State control is now extremely irrational. Monitoring is not based on product characteristics but on production processes. It's like cooking bordello using solid meat, but it's very careful to monitor the mixing and preparation process. It is not enough that an illogical and foolish system of control is taking place today and interference with the business. Today, government control is unfortunately performing a more repressive function. The supervision system is aimed at punishing enterprises, rather than using the mechanism of State cooperation with business representation authorities and the introduction of a system of self-control by business actors. It is time to remedy the situation and, instead of a surveillance zone, establish a field of interaction in the Ukrainian economic field, to which the bill is sent. And I believe that we need to support Bill 6694 in the light of the proposals made in Bill 6694/1. And in preparing this bill for second reading, I believe that we will be able to build a system of reliable market control and implement a complete system of technical regulation and certification reform, which unfortunately is still in place for the guests of the Soviet Union. We need to change the system of assistance and support for our domestic market producers from a system of total control and punishment, which will enable us to protect the internal market from underquality products and at the same time encourage our domestic producers to maximize.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u155	I would like to reiterate my colleagues' position that the committee had decided to adopt the Presidential Bill as a basis and that the individual provisions of Bill 6694/1 should be taken into account in the drafting of the Presidential Bill. Also, the Committee's proposal for three Bills 6694, 7064 and 6711, all three bills in the package to prepare for second reading and in the Supreme Council to consider three bills together because they are all aimed at a system of technical regulation and standardization in the country today. If we break these three bills in time, we can do much more harm than the benefits of reform today. support for the internal market. And I think that the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers will fully support us here, because only three bills together can make a real difference today, both in the internal market and in the certification system of standardization in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u156	Thank you. I think the Supreme Council of Ukraine will support such a proposal by the head of the committee, and please prepare these three bills for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then there'll be a speech by Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u157	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Of course, I support a reasonable point of view in that if we are to reform, we need to address these issues in a comprehensive way that affects our health or the lives of our people. Regarding the position that the Soviet Union had or was not State control. I'll tell you, there was state control because there were fewer surrogates in the Soviet Union, especially the food industry that affected human health, and fewer people were sick, I think, because of that. In our time, unfortunately, I don't know what statistics would say about another question: that some entrepreneurs, even though publicly speaking, have made a decision that they have been deprived of the right to produce one or another product because they are violating it. Can a state today be without State control or a population without state control? Of course, I did not want government control to exist at all, provided that those who produce the products were not affected by the fact that they were responsible for the quality that would make it impossible for the population to have a negative impact on the environment, and so on. Unfortunately, we've joined the WTO, we've opened borders, we've made priority development zones, we've given private ownership to most of the sectors of the people's agriculture -- and unfortunately, what happened in this chaos was what we had on the benches. If we take only food industries with you, you know that most products, especially dairy, that do not meet the standards, do not meet the standards. Who should be responsible? Can the buyer force the seller to provide? He can't. Who should do that? State. And the state in this respect needs to increase control, not by increasing the control bodies, but by increasing the quality. I'm in favour of less testing, but I'm in favour of finding those or other shortcomings that affect the health or the life of the population or nature, and I'm going to have to let this organization or these people do these things. So only a comprehensive approach to addressing such issues will enable, in fact, to move this issue from a step, not through reforming or partial switching.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u158	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u159	or by transferring from one organization of control bodies to another organization. And thus, no one knows who controls it, but manufacturers who have a good attitude toward production know that in turn, another loving body can test and prevent them from working at any time. Please support the bill of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u160	Thank you. Jaroslav Jodzik, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u161	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. By supporting the project's design to improve the quality and safety of products, I point out that there are a number of important points to the drafting of the proposed bill, because adopting it in this way is more likely to contribute to the deterioration of the quality of the product in the market. The draft law provides for the introduction of market surveillance of products already placed on the Ukrainian market to comply exclusively with technical regulations. It should be noted that the current technical regulations for production in Ukraine are virtually lacking and the pace of their development is very low. The question is, How can we test the product to match what is not available? The answer is itself asked, most products due to lack of technical regulations will not be subject to market surveillance for a long time. If not recognized for a period prior to the introduction of technical regulations, the obligation of standards will arise in the absence of laws, other legal acts, in the area of regulation of requirements for safety and quality of products, which will result in the saturation of Ukraine's market with dangerous, inequitable, falsified products. In addition, the bill establishes a list of types of products that are not covered by the law, including food products, food supplements. These types of products have special legislation that requires State oversight of their production and circulation. That is, in order to ensure the requirements of national legislation and European directives for the implementation of an effective market surveillance system for these products, it is necessary to create additional market surveillance bodies, a significant increase in the state of control and a significant increase in budgetary funding. I'm asking you to finish the date. I'd like to agree with the Chief Science Expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u162	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u163	I would like to agree with the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and send the bill to work with the comments made for re-examination in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 6694, which is the presidential bill, and to take into account the proposals put forward in the alternative bill in preparation for the second reading. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Market Surveillance and Product Control, registration number 6694. [[13:15:28]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and at the same time the commission of the committee to prepare these bills so that they can be considered in a package in a second reading. Is there not? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're asking. The factions? Please. Yeah, one minute: Region Party – 172, Block Timoshenko – 0, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 17, Communists – 27, Block Lithuania – 20, non-fractional – 15. I'd like the committee to do the work quickly. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? And three bills are put together for consideration in a second reading. The committee has such an assignment, let it work. Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Unfortunately, you haven't listened to the scientific and expert board in the first place, to the voices of those deputies who say it is now the destruction of their own Ukrainian economy. So I want you to know that you voted in favour of a law that allows today to import uncontrolled food products, additives, aromatizers, dietary supplements, animal products, alcohol, alcoholic beverages and all that, and all this will be a long time until technical regulations are in place and are not made, will not be covered by this market surveillance that will lead to the saturation of the consumer market by non-quality and dangerous products. Therefore, honourable national deputies, when you work on a set of three laws, remember that we still have a village that wants to be destroyed now for one purpose: to sell land for a non - agricultural assignment. It's the same thing that's happening today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Individual Offences. [[on the completion of sanctions through public works]] Registration number 6634. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:18:05]] For-200 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of the Interior of Lazarev Anatoly Anatolyevich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Shemchuk Viktorovich. I'd like the head of the committee to report to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u167	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Individual Offences, which has been prepared by the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out the Government's mandate since 14 August 2009. [[on the completion of sanctions by a type of compression such as public works]] The current nature of amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is caused by the fact that sanctions for individual offences are only for fines, which are, by the way, quite minor today, from 51 bracelets to 255. At the same time, a substantial burden is placed on the family budget, which often leads to delinquency and, at times, family crime, does not function as a reeducation of the offender and warnings of new offences based on administrative responsibility. Thus, 776,000 827 administrative offences have been documented in 8 months of the current year. Of them, over and over again, almost 80,000. Today, a fine of 1 million 43,000 dollars has been imposed on wrongdoers. However, only 51.1 percent were drawn. First of all, this situation is caused by socio-economic problems and other negative social phenomena, such as joblessness, low wages, etc. The project therefore proposes to strengthen administrative responsibility for such offences by complementing their sanctions with an administrative commitment such as public works. This will help to rehabilitate and strengthen the impact on the lawfulness of wrongdoers, forcing them in this way to compensate for the harm inflicted on the public interest and to prevent the perpetrators from committing new offences. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Romanovich. Please, the committee's decision. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u169	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In November 2008, when we passed the Law on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of the Road Traffic Rules, a new merger was introduced in Ukraine: administrative public works. It is active and appointed, applied, and carried out. To date, the government has proposed that this form of punishment be supplemented by public works — petty hooliganism, domestic violence, malicious disobedience to the legal requirements of the police. The Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs reported that fines are usually minor and are generally not enforced. The penalty is paid from the family’s budget, not by the individual punishment of the wrongdoer. The government therefore proposes to three articles, to the types of punishments that are included in these articles: “or corrective work on terms that are defined in the general part of the Administrative Code”. And the honourable colleagues, the committee supports the bill, and Adam Ivanovich, you know that the Constitutional Court has approved the new Constitution of Ukraine, so I don't know if today we could ask questions about the adoption of this whole law, because there's nothing to be done about it -- and it's still a code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If there is a need to discuss it, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yes, Andrew School, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u171	Thank you. Well, it's usually a big job of the government to fight crime in Ukraine to offer, like a type of attraction, public work. I appreciate the quality and everything. Although it is even surprising that the government that is implementing the totalitarian system and supporting the current president in Ukraine is on the one hand trying to decriminalize the Criminal Code. It's not bad, it's strange and inconsequential, but nevertheless I think it would be worth supporting, so giving the opportunity, well, I don't know, if I don't make amends, at least help make money to those officials who are launching a delicious hand into the state budget of Ukraine. Because I think that's why they came to power. To that end, they struggled to eliminate the constitutional order in Ukraine by bringing chaos into the country and incomprehensiblely what was happening in the country. And as they say on the subject in more detail, I want to say that in general right now, understanding that there will be total persecution and media and opposition, of course we, as an opposition, have to support the decriminalization of the Criminal Code, because according to it, you will be persecuting us. While not forgetting that everything in life is changing, it is changing, so I would recommend that today's majority, a recently formed majority, also support this bill. It'll be useful in life. Because you don't always have to be in power, no matter how much you want to be there for 15 or 20 years. Well, I think it would be worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u172	Valerius Beaz, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, there's a request: let's talk in essence about a bill, not throw political slogans here, that's the first. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it has no relation whatsoever to these “decriminalization” attitudes, if spoken in a professional language, rather than in political language. And the third. It's a bill on time. It's necessary today. Moreover, it implements the very basic principle: the principle of irreversibility of punishment. And the last. I would like to ask all of our colleagues to support the government's proposal for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u174	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor on this bill because I believe that the decision of this bill, the support of this bill, does not essentially solve the problem that is in our society. You know that statistics are so specific and she has every reason to say that Ukraine is on the verge that its already critical standard of drinking by one person is the amount of alcohol that is produced or imported into the country. And the state can't hold back from interfering with this issue, because the figures cited by the deputy minister say that more than a million protocols have been put in place and fines have been applied accordingly for drinking or for drinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u177	6634.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u178	Public works, of course. Of course, it's about public work, it's about public work. Because if we give the courts or give the law enforcement authorities to apply, or not just a fine, but apply and sanction in the form of forced labor, I say that if we give the opportunity, we have to consider, and what happens in the family. And whether it's appropriate or not. And the problem that concerns the imposition of administrative penalties in the form of extending them by, in a way, needs a substantial, so to speak, stately. consider these problems that are in our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u179	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I call on our citizens to know that the essence of the addition to the four articles – 173 and 173.2, 178 and 185 – is only to supplement the sanctions with a new type of engagement such as "civil works". There is no relation to criminalization or to increasing responsibility as stated in the title, this bill does not exist. That's the first one. The other one. This bill I would be ashamed to sign on behalf of the great government. Why? Why would he be ashamed? I'm talking to people who don't know how to behave. They're screaming here. So it's because it's plagiarism. The previous government prepared this bill, and it was completely out of it, not even a single coma. October 15, 2009, issue 5231. Therefore, if someone is yelling, please consider whether you are yelling wisely. And the next. Dear National Deputies! I have repeatedly pointed out, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we must end what we are spending time in Parliament, in a large parliament, because this is a constitutional body that Ukrainian citizens have the right to represent themselves, even though they want to humiliate it with the decision of the Constitutional Court, where the judges have gone beyond their powers. I emphasized that it was a long time ago that I would introduce a new, completely new edition of the Code of Administrative Offences. That's the first one. And the second. I emphasize both the Security Service and the IMF and the President as the guarantor of the Constitution that we have to deal with serious matters. In Kharkiv, for example, one boy, the son of a great boss who is still working, is detained. The court lets him go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u181	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u182	I'm done. The court has released this man, who for 120,000 trampoline pills for the digestion of our children. Therefore, corruption must be dealt with seriously and eradicated there. This law will be passed or none of us will be better off. We can accept it, but I'm asking you to make an appointment. And I think this will also be done quickly by Lavrinovich as a change to the Constitution on the same day that the Constitutional Court adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u183	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues who are forced to take the floor for only one reason, because I have the text of this law, you know. And there's not much in the text that's happened during the discussion, obviously. And here in the bill itself is a perfectly correct message. There is an alternative, as an alternative form of fine and correctional work to some types of wrongdoing, still public works are envisaged. That's the point. Is that right or wrong? That's right. And not just because public works as a measure of punishment, but also because of the restoration of what man has done, what he has broken, the telephone booth and so on is absolutely correct and used in many countries. So a perfectly correct bill, you just have to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Certain Offences. [[on the completion of public works sanctions]] [[Registration number 6634]] Please vote. [[13:31:26]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us consult. Here was an offer that could be accepted. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, as a matter of fact. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a note, dear colleagues, I can't. Let's put it in. There's a note in Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote a proposal to have the committee prepare it for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote: a reduced procedure for second reading. [[13:32:19]] For 243 We've made up our minds. Dear colleagues! I propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[concerning the import and export of alcohol]] Registration number 6379. The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:32:57]] For 205 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Finance Andrey Mikolayovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please. Dear colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers sent a letter. In view of the fact that the ship is in service, a document is requested. Please, where's the reporter? Who's the reporter? Oh, I'm confused, that's it. We're looking for a letter now, my dear fellows. Please report, we'll find it now. Oh, dear fellows, I'm sorry! This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations, well, this is the law I read. Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Skorchenko Anatoli Fedorovich will report. I'm sorry, I read the wrong paper. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Agrarian Policy has developed a draft law designed to bring alcohol into conformity with the requirements of effective legislation on brandy and fruity alcohol and to specify the conditions for licensing companies for the right to import and export horse and fruit alcohol. That's the problem. The Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of alcohol, ethyl, equine and fruit drinks and tobacco products, adopted on 19 December 1995, defines the term of horse alcohol and its endurance with oak wood, cognac spices, alcohol, obtained by the processing of horse wine with special technology for further long-term stamina in contact with oak wood, which enables the manufacturer to increase the attractiveness of horse alcohol and cognacs by adding fine oak wood, oak granulate and other similar substances, which are deemed to be falsification of the cognac of Ukraine. In view of the fact that many manufacturers have been asking for clarification, according to various interpretations of these terms, and considering that the Ukrainian Wine and Wine Act of 16 June 2005 and the corresponding national standards of 2 January 2008 define the conditions for the endurance of horse alcohol in oak or non - brown or painted delicacies with oak glue for the production of official horses in Ukraine, a domestic producer, it is really difficult to understand what law to use in the manufacture of horses. [[I'm sorry, it's such an official technical term.]] In view of such different definitions of the term horse alcohol, the Minagropolitics propose to support the changes that have been made. In addition, with a view to clarifying the conditions for companies to issue licences for the right to import and export horse and fruit alcohol and the criteria for defining these enterprises, the bill is also proposed to be supplemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u187	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u188	I'm done. That imports and exports of horse and fruit alcohol are subject to the right of the holder who is licensed for the production of horse and fruit alcohol, thus exclusively producers. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u189	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee we have Hometic Vitaly Yuriovich, head of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u190	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the committee considered a bill on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, cognac and fruit alcohol submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6379]] The reporter's got your attention on the overall characteristics of this document, so I've narrowed it down enough. First of all, the bill regulates the technical conditions for the processing of the horse's wine products, and the reporter tells us exactly what the technical conditions are. Secondly, the bill proposes to import and export horse and fruit alcohol exclusively to producers of horse and fruit alcohol who have the appropriate production licence. And thirdly, these manufacturers have an appropriate export and import licence. The Committee, on the basis of its consideration of the bill, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u191	Yes, we'll discuss it. Is alcohol understood? Please sign up. Carmagine is indifferent. Please, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u192	Please pass the word to my colleague Lemsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u193	Lemza, please, Lemza.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u194	Lemza, Yulia Timoshenko. That's the question. The increasing requirements for packaging, which will certainly affect the quality of the wine, are understandable, oak or oak barrels. But the question is, how will this be controlled by importers? Is this mechanism envisaged or not? What will they do for us, and will this be in harmony with our requirements? Second. On the issue of the introduction and cost of the licence. I don't quite understand the essence of this license. If it's just a registration fee or something, let's say, kind of earn money at the amount that needs to be paid. We believe that these are sufficient amounts. 780 bracelets don't understand what it's doing. Is this a regulatory equalizer, and are we protecting our manufacturer or not in this case? And the last. The law, if adopted, shall enter into force from the time of its adoption. And if we adopt it by the end of the year, how will all those importers or exporters who do not have such licences address the issue of licensing?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u195	Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u196	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. I'll pass on the word to Karmazin. Turns out he's a better alcohol specialist than I am. I just wanted to say that it's very good that we didn't put together two committees: tax and banking -- because you can imagine how hard it is to look at the subject of alcohol -- and now you're looking at the country's monetary and credit policy. Mr. Yuri, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u197	You've been handed the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you to my colleague, Arjevitin. And I want to say the next thing. Honourable National Deputies, the root of this law is buried here: amending paragraph 4 of the first article of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. It is now suggested that “the spirit of brandy is alcohol obtained through the processing of the horse’s winery with special technology for the continuation of many years of stamina in oak packaging or stainless or enamelled delicacies with oak glue”. Dear national MPs, it is obvious that if alcohol is prepared in stainless or embalmed pots, it is no longer a cognac – it is already a barrel. We are encouraged to make this legal today. I don't mind making changes to other articles, but I want to tell you that before me and the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, there's an interesting thing written here that we haven't heard from the rostrum. I quote: “The committee, generally in support of the need to adopt this bill, has made a warning about the proposed draft definition of the term ‘cone spirit’ in the use of many years of alcohol, in addition to oak packaging, also stainless or embalmed containers with oak glue, which may affect the quality of Ukrainian brandy. This issue should be discussed further in furthering the second reading. From my point of view, this will completely undermine the export capacity of Ukrainians and not know how their health will be affected. So I urge you not to make this change, because soon we won't know what to eat or drink or anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u199	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, why did I sign up against this bill? Because just recently, I don't remember the exact date, but it was the spring or summer of 2009, when you and I were amending the bill on government regulation of production, circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac alcohol, and so forth, where the, the, the cancellation of the import licenses, the export of alcohol. And then we were with you, remember what we were talking about? The need to boost the competitiveness of our liquor plants. I was curious to hear why I actually signed up, and that's not my theme, it's not social policy. Manufacturers ask questions. Spirit manufacturers, including in the Ternopil region, ask one question: On what basis does the State’s “Ukrispirt” concert create artificial obstacles to the implementation of the finished product? On what basis have former independent industries been deprived of legal personality rights? This right has been taken over by one State concert “Krispret”. What licenses are you talking about? Who will accept import and export licences if they are not legal persons? This bill has either been written for King Panka, or it needs to be reviewed now, which is, in fact, the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I was really hoping that the consideration of this bill would give us a reason at all to talk about what's going on in this once golden field? This is the branch that can turn Ukraine into Kuwait. Where's the bioethanol? Where's the supplemental bill, bio-additions? Where's Biodiel? All of this was suspended in the air and no one needed it. Look, even, Mr. School and that surprised, surprised, and he's outraged by this approach of the state concert "Ukrispirt," I'll remind him of his last name so that he can speak up and sharpen our question of what this bill needs, if even in the first reading, further reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u201	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] The line will be after the vote, don't get upset, we need you still healthy. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the first reading of Bill 6379 amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[concerning the import and export of alcohol]] Please vote. [[13:45:47.]] For 235 Thank you, copy. Please, the school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u202	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. But the vote took place, and the result was clear. But there are two positions, two lines. Well, line one, I'd like to emphasize that we understand that cognac is produced in France in Cognac Province, and in the world it's called brandy, which is brand alcohol, and that's what we need to talk about. And I can't imagine a cognac made in Cognac Province with some sort of glue in aluminum packaging. It's only us in Ukraine that can come up with something like this. And to Mr. Suhigo, I would like to pay attention, not to the opposition, but to the power that is now destroying the alcohol industry in Ukraine. I fully agree with the fact that now the industry that has made profits and jobs to Ukrainian producers and workers is now being destroyed by the current government in an agreement of unknown quality to alcohols that will be imported without any restrictions to Ukraine. This is the most important part of this bill. I don't know what it's like to have a chat or an oak or not, but without a chat, this bill has been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u203	The main thing is to have a good cognac. The draft Law No. 7034 amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds in Ukraine is under consideration. There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[13:47:30.]] For 218. Decision taken. Reported by Deputy Minister Kravec Andri Mikolaiovich. From the Polunie Committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u204	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds in Ukraine proposes to allow banks to open the current accounts of UEFA by 30 November 2012 for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the 2012 European Championship. Today, the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds in Ukraine does not allow foreign legal persons to open bank accounts without creating a local representation. This addition to article 6 of the aforementioned Ukrainian law is primarily due to the need for legislative consolidation of the possibility of UEFA opening current accounts in Ukrainian banks without creating a permanent representation in Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will create the necessary conditions for the sale and distribution of UEFA tickets to the final part of the 2012 European Championship. The draft law, taking into account all the comments made, was further elaborated by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Banks. For financial and banking matters, all comments are taken into account. So I would like to support the amended bill and adopt it in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u205	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Secretary of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Poloneyev Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u206	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! By a decision of the Committee on Finance and Banking since 08.09.2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 7034]] At the meeting of the committee, it was agreed to propose a new edition agreed with the National Bank of Ukraine, which would be more specific to the purpose of introducing the bill. Therefore, I would like to propose to support the Committee's decision and article 6, paragraph 6.1 of the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds in Ukraine, to add the following: “For the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship, the banks have the right to open the current accounts of the EUFA by 30 November 2012. The committee requests that the bill be supported with the proposed text in the first reading and in general. He's unconscionable with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the State Committee on Financial Monitoring, with observations taken into account by the State Tax Administration. The National Bank's proposals are fully accounted for. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u207	I just have a question: Why did we improve the law without perfecting it? It said exactly what accounts might open. You're suggesting we take this, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u208	Yes. The point is, Adam Ivanovich, that according to the Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds, the introduction of standards that determine the mode of operation of the account, that is, a clear list of transactions, does not correspond exactly. That's the law. Therefore, it is suggested not to regulate what operations. Transactions under existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u209	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yes, who else would want to share in the discussion besides Arjevetin? You don't? Then please, Stanislaw Arzevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u210	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the legislative initiative is right. Because we have to do everything we can to make an enabling environment, including in the financial sector, to make this European football championship a success. Of course, these are new investments. Of course, it's a new, new image of the country, it's a new joy. But I would like to point out that similar standards should be like exclusion. Because if we open locks for many other non-residents, I think we're going to violate the system of international transfers that exists. In fact, I had a previous editorial and I wanted to vote against, well, more faithfully, the first reading, where it was pointed out that accounts were allowed to be opened, that we were allowed to sell packets to the living room, and there were different words that were not understood how to interpret. For example, various services, operating expenses. Well, in case we take this down and we limit it exclusively to allow you to open current accounts and dots. And according to the National Bank Act, it's the National Bank that determines the order of such accounts, of course, if the National Bank implements and develops this order, I think it's possible to accept it as an editorial, in short, to open up the current accounts. Period. Without deciphering these packets, incomprehensible services, incomprehensible operating expenses. So I would like to support such a new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. I think you've been happy to read the latest UEFA decision on where the match is going to take place. And what's important is that what was planned for Ukraine, we got even more. The championship will be held in Kiev. And God forbid, if Ukraine's collective had played in this final, we wouldn't have had prices with you. So let's support Euro-12. And I propose, in an editorial that was proposed on behalf of a committee of profile, in agreement with all the bodies that were called here, to accept as a law as a whole. 7034 is a bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Funds in Ukraine. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u212	[[From the Hall]] As a whole, the law was not passed out of the voice, Adam Ivanovich. [[13:55:13]] For 242 The law is passed. There's a note in Yuri Anatoliovich, we'll listen to it. Microphone, Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We're about to make a decision. In violation of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, which provides for adoption in the first reading. I had warnings, there were warnings from other MPs, and you know that even the Chief Scientific Authority wrote that “this law can be adopted on the basis of observations and suggestions.” Neither those remarks nor my right as a national deputy of Ukraine, for, both by the old Constitution and by the new Constitution, the National MP has the right to make amendments as a subject of the legislative initiative. Therefore, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, you have now restricted my rights as a national deputy and I ask you to give me back my right to amend. Come back, Adam Ivanovich. So cancel what you said was just the first reading. That's it. And let's civilizedly think that they have to pay, and taxes and so on, foreign bankers, nothing to fat here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-05-m0.u214	Don’t take advantage of the enemy in the person of soccer players. The law is passed. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. It's 4:00 a.m.
