ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:30.]] The 409 National Deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, the national deputy of Ukraine, who today has a Jubilee of 65 years. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 4 November 2010. Twenty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, six laws and eight regulations have been passed. Eight bills were adopted as a basis. 1 Bill has been sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading. 5 Bills Rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to announce their requests. I'll call in the questions, then let's do it. As far as the “hour of the Government” is concerned. Regrettably, the proposals did not come about which member of the government would have to listen and ask questions. That is why today we will not spend “the hour of the government. ” Because there are no suggestions. Let's do it next week. Dear colleagues, now I ask, and then everything else. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Arsenija Yatsenuk to the President of Ukraine on the use by the President of Ukraine of the measures necessary for the holding of the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the definition of an immediate bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 (to ensure the holding of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 27 March 2011). I'll put it to a vote to support the request. I think those who support this should be given the opportunity to come to the elections, to go to the elections in March 2011. [[10:03:51]] For-84 Not supported. Olga Bodnar to the President of Ukraine on the delay in the establishment of the Inter-Knowing Commission on Military and Technical Cooperation and Export Control of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:27]] For-75 Request not supported. Lesi Orobec to the President of Ukraine on compliance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’ requirements for Ukrainian legislation and international obligations in the field of tobacco prevention. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:58]] For-74. The amendment is not accepted. Request not supported. The Greeneweckian branch to the President of Ukraine for the preservation of the State Enterprise "The Scientific Research Institute - a mobile technology field". I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:32]] For 203 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:05:52]] For 224 Who in favour of returning to Sergey Greenewecki's request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:06:16]] For 248 We're back to the request. Who's in favour of supporting the request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:06:38]] For 242 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Asking the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:04]] For 243 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Jury of Lithuania is headed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of targeted subsidies from the State Budget in 2011 for the financing of municipal and social objects in the city of Kirovograd. Anatolia Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the question of the eviction of museums and other cultural and scientific institutions of the Lavrian Reserve. Vadim Grivkovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of educational facilities at the University of Technology School No.24 in the Spaz district of Ternopil. Vadim Grivkovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the removal from the town of Herson of an anti-tuberculus hospital of the Ukrainian State Department for the enforcement of sentences. Valeria Bevenza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the transfer of prominent sanatoriums located in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Valerija Suškević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take measures to properly organize the healing of disabled people with spinal and spinal diseases and to provide them with travel to specialized sanatoriums. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation at the Zacarpathian Helicopter Association State Enterprise in the village of the city type Dubov, Tachiv district, Zakarpatsk district. Victor Turmanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the write-off by the Pension Fund of Ukraine of small businesses from insurance contributions and debt for the reimbursement of pension benefits for coal-based enterprises. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an additional grant from the State budget of Ukraine to compensate for the financial security of the Lipowodoline District Budget of the Suma Region. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of being the Director-General of the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve "Prayaslav" of Paul Longshii, appointed to contradict the collective, during which many destructive events took place during half a year, could soon lead to the loss of Ukraine's unique acquisition of our historical reserve "Pereyaslav". Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences for the Protection of the Rights of the Society of the Odessa Region, and the Despair of Land for the People of the village of Kuchurgana of the Odessa Region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, requiring true information on the amount of money that has been spent by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out an audit of the activities of the previous government by legal companies where there are no auditors when pensions and wages in Ukraine do not increase, and prices for gas and products are raised at a jet rate. Grigory Omelchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 12 September 2002 on the approval of copies of civil status registration books and descriptions of civil status certificates issued by the State authorities in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 26 June 1992 on the approval of passport regulations for Ukrainian citizens, birth certificates and passports for citizens of Ukraine to go abroad. Igor Golovchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the Poltava Central District Hospital in Poltavsk. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase the drilling volume of the Artesian well in the Kirovograd region in order to provide quality drinking water for the population. Igora Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to build a factory from the processing of solid household waste in Kirovgrad. Irina Bellousov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the completion of the construction of social and preschool facilities in the region of Colomia. Irina Bellousov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the state support for the construction of an inter-regional grain elevator in the Zalestice region of Ternopil. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for speeding up the payment of a one-time salary to a group of women in the Volin region, who were awarded the Honorary title of "Mother Hero" by Presidential Decree of 27 January 2010. Mikoli Derkac to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of energy conservation measures from the reconstruction of heating systems in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to solve the problem of providing quality drinking water to the inhabitants of the town of Pre-Travenska Dnipropetrovsk. Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-exportation of the creative heritage of the famous Ukrainian artist Mikli Głuschenka. Mikoli Schmidt to Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding in 2011 the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Nevicke Uzhgrad district of Zakarpatsk. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring food manufacturers' requirements of the laws of Ukraine on the identification of GMO products and their threat to the health of Ukrainian consumers. Helen Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the delay in financing the construction of pipelines to the villages of the Burditch region of the Žitomir region. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the examination of the facts concerning the abuse of office by the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev and the illegal obstruction of the operation of a non-carrying vessel, the special complex "Pharaon". Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the Gribovic dump in the Lviv region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the non-admission of the reduction of health care facilities in the Donetsk Region for the purpose of medical and social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care and for the purpose of protecting children with disabilities from birth, taking appropriate measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution and the laws of the State authorities and local self-government in the Donetsk region. Lilia Grigorovitch and Andrija Paruba to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cancellation by the Minister of Education of Ukraine of Dmitr Tobacco of the International Competition for Ukrainian Language by Peter Yatzik. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the immediate application of measures to restore the rights of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, on social protection, on the protection of their lives and health, on the elimination of violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, which resulted in the victims of the 4th Chernobyl disaster not receiving from 264 to 888 dollars per month, the 3rd category from 353 to 1776, the 1st category from 350 to 3,000 dollars and more, ensuring the continued compliance with the requirements of the specified legislative act, the duty of the State to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Valentina Matvijeva to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the issue of housing for the retired teacher Olga Shumilo, resident of the village of Honcharov, Chernigiv district of Chernigiv district. Vasila Wondernova to the head of the High Council of Justice regarding the loss of an administrative case under the term Larisa Pavlük to the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Pecher district of Kiev. Valerija Barabanova to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine, on the regulation of the legislative level of discrepancies in the use of the accounting counters of the total calculation of electricity for the consumption of energy in multi-unit buildings where the joint owners of multi-household buildings are merged. Valerija Suškević to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the state of financing of immunoprophylactic measures. Vladimir Lemza to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the illegality of the appointment of a company with a foreign investment called Ironimpex-Ukraine. Vladimir Lemza to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the irregularity of the violation by the investigators of the Primorski District Office of the Odessa Municipal Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa area of criminal matters concerning officials of an enterprise with foreign investment in Ironnimpeks-Ukraine. Vladimir Litvina to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the unlawful actions of the head of the Hadjatsky District Council of Poltava and the inaction of employees of the law enforcement authorities of the city of Gadjac. Vladimir Stretovic to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the use of measures to protect the monuments of architecture, the construction and history of the city of Kyiv, which are located at Khrestyk Street, 40/1 and Bogdan Hmelnitsky Street,3 and 3B. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the call for responsibility of organizers and perpetrators of the robbery against the rebels and patriotic song "Guidamak". UA' in Irpen on September 26, 2010. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of residents of the village of Grigorovka in the region of Montenegro to contribute to the gasification of the populated area. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Road Service of Ukraine, the State Enterprise "State Road Traffic Research and Project Institute", the Kiev City State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the All-U.S. Society for Road Traffic Safety and the use of urgent measures in Kiev to ensure road safety in the use of unregulated pedestrian crossings by schoolchildren and older persons. Eugene Kzarkov to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of the illegal use of State property and the damage to the State on a particularly large scale. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Society's representatives with limited responsibility "Melleni Korostene District of the Žitomir Region" in the village of Meleni Korosten. Oleg Tishchenka to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine in the handling of complaints by Ukrainian citizens. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine for non-execution by the limited liability of "Polish Land" from the city of Berdichov in the region of Žitomir, his obligations to establish state-owned land rights for the residents of the village of Meleni Korosten district of Žitomir. Mikli Tomenka to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on Inadmissibility on National Television Channels of Illegal Advertising of the Ukrainian Alcohol Trade Mark. Alexandre Shepelova to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to increase funding for the Kyiv City Hospital of Emergency Care. Alexander Šepeleva to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the use of measures to improve the situation with the provision of housing and facilities and the prevention of thermal accidents. Sergei Gordienka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need for extermination to the Offices of the Attorney-General of the Attorney-General and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of a criminal case brought against the resident of Poltava Alexander Doubiša, a thorough and impartial investigation of the matter, and the protection of the constitutional rights of the suspect. Sergei Gordienka to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration, for the non-admission of the conditions of education and the education of students in the elementary classes of the Koshmaniv Public Education School of the 1st grade of the Mashiv region of Poltava. Ms. Grenevetsky’s Sergey to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the violation of legislation during the release and assignment of the pension. Sergei Pavlenko to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the completion of the construction of the second line of water in the village of Mirne Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Sergey Chrapova to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the actions of Judge Ordjonikidev, City Court of Dnipropetrov, Natali Gorbenko, within the criminal case of the defendant Alexander Hohli, for part 2 of article 307 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Sergey Chrapova to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the clarification of the right of commercial banks to lend foreign currency loans to one Ukrainian resident in advance for this currency with other Ukrainian residents in Ukraine. July Kovalevski to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the provision of regular free transportation of children to preschool institutions and clarification of the manner in which buses are used, maintained, serviced and accounted for by public educational institutions under the School Bus program. Anatolia Yagoferova to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to a parliamentary appeal by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. Andrija Škila to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an incomplete response by the prosecutor of the Lviv region to a parliamentary appeal to verify the legality of building a residential building in the area of fire on the street of General Chuprinka, 3 in the city of Lviv. Vasil Kravchuk to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of the district community of the Danube area to the safety and health of the environment. Vasil Har to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the reaction to the inaction of the prosecutor of Kiev Yury Udavtsov to the corruption of the director of the Executive Directorate of the Social Insurance Fund at the temporary loss of employment of Sergey Sanchenk. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the danger of the destruction of the Star Stadium in Kiev. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the offence of the death of a citizen named Alexander Yakovenka. Eugene Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of material on the possible organization of corruption schemes by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Sergey Tihypco. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the organization of a review of the inactivity of officials of the State Tax Inspectorate in the Primorski district of Odessa, which paralyses the activities of a large domestic manufacturing company and leads to a substantial reduction in the income portion of the Ukrainian State Budget. Helen Bondarenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper conduct of investigations by internal affairs officials. Ulysses Mistpane to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the criminal offence of the personnel of the Mironov District Police Department of the Kyiv Region, which led to the death of a citizen of Valerius Plachotnuk. Olga Bodnar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the Senior Prosecutor's Office of the Solomonian District of Kiev, Alexia Grunsky, in relation to the leaders of the Private Shareholders Association, Production and Trade Company Radosyn. Anatolia Matvienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the individual actions and inactions of the Vasilk Election Commission of the Kyiv Region in the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads on October 31, 2010. Thus, the honourable national deputies, 93 MPs, have been questioned. Since we have returned to a parliamentary motion for the President of Ukraine to maintain cleanliness, I will return with your permission to the three previous requests that have not received support. I am voting on the proposal to return Arsenius Yatsenuk to the President of Ukraine on the use by the President of Ukraine of the measures necessary for the holding of the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the definition of an immediate bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on the provision of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 27 March 2011]] I'm betting on the vote to return to this request. I'd like to make a statement. What are you doing? [[10:27:57]] For 131 I didn't go back to looking at that question. I am voting on the proposal to return Olga Bodnar to the President of Ukraine for delay in the establishment of an Inter-Agency Commission on Military and Technical Cooperation and Export Control of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. [[10:28:34]] For-100 We did not return to that question. I am voting for a motion to return to the request of Ukrainian National Deputy Lesi Orobec to the President of Ukraine for compliance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation and Ukraine’s international obligations in the field of tobacco prevention. About the return. [[10:29:07]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, as you can see, when we consider this issue, we have followed the Rules fully here. You are scheduled for Friday, November 5. If you'd like to exchange your thoughts, please, one minute from the faction. From the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" who will it be? Mikola Martinenko, right? On a day-to-day basis. None. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I draw your attention to the following. There are a number of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council who serve from 3 to 9 months in positions that are incompatible with the parliamentary mandate. According to the National Deputies, the Rules Committee reviewed the statements made by the national deputies of Solomatin, Jiga, Illashov, Horbal, Vasiliev, Demeshkan, Zločevsky, Fesenka and made appropriate decisions regarding the early termination of their powers to the Supreme Council. However, in violation of the requirements of article 3 of the Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy”, 78 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine by the Supreme Council have delayed consideration of this issue by means of the inclusion in the agenda during the last few months of Friday. The faction requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u3	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u4	Thank you. In order to avoid violations of the Constitution, consider this issue first at a meeting of the Supreme Council today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Yes, please, Valery Baranov, please. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very long time for us to have discussions on various topics that have little to do with practical application and little interest in the society that awaits us with radical action, radical reform. We had an election with you. They passed differently, but they already happened. New advice has been chosen. These councils will come to their buildings tomorrow, sit at their desks and discover that they have an empty budget, that they have no money, and that they have 0.7 per cent of the total budget for all urban economies, because the entire budget of the city and the population centre is a payroll fund. So here I am again calling on all of us. Let us finally start preparing for the budget process. It's been, by the way, September 15. Let us focus our energy on decentralization of power and finance, so that the local councils, for which we have all fought, will receive the resources for which they will do something useful for our society. Otherwise, no one needs our entire application policy on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u7	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The election campaign is over. Thank you to all of us for having been calm, tolerant, honest, objective and, in the opinion of all international voters, an opportunity to further strengthen the image of the country of reputation in the international arena. But now the main thing, very quickly, without delay, is to form the authorities very quickly on the ground, because we are going to winter, we need to adopt budgets and so on. Here, too, we need this kind of cooperative friendly work to complete the electoral process at the last stage. But I also wish to note the constructive work of Parliament. Indeed, we have entered a constructive path. And it was remarkable that yesterday, in favour of the Attorney-General's candidacy, the BUT faction, “Our Ukraine”, was voted by the Comparty, the Party of the Regions, and the entire Parliament elected the Prosecutor-General by constitutional majority, thereby demonstrating its willingness to constructively build on the President's programme. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u9	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have been using almost 35 minutes to announce parliamentary inquiries and talk about the order of today’s session. Is it time for us to consider, Vladimir Mikhailovich, specific questions that await a solution? We're just doing this to delay the consideration of those bills that have been waiting for months, even years. And the second. We have long been given this opportunity to the people's deputies, on Friday, at the Supreme Council on Friday in connection with the blockade of the rostrum, as we remember, to express our thoughts on some of the thorny issues in the “Variable”. So I propose from the faction to the consideration of the agenda with this chapter “Variable” taking place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! There were such suggestions that we would generally work in order of the day. There was an offer from Sergei Sass that we would now change the order of our work. First, questions were put about depriving the MPs. You see, your honor, we have such a strange situation here. Last Friday, when we were to consider the matter definitively, we blocked the rostrum and prevented it from being considered. Worked, you can see, on those deputies who are accomplices. Today they're trying, they're demanding that we put this in line. So let's do it this way. I will now put to the vote a motion to change order, to change the order of the debate. And first, consider the question of disqualification. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports it, then we will be considering it. It won't support -- we'll look at it today, too, but it's in the order it's scheduled. So I'm putting to the vote Sergey Sasa's proposal to now consider the issue of the early termination of the powers of individual national MPs. Please identify yourself, please identify. [[10:36:39]] For 132 The factions, please. Dear colleagues, that's democratically what I did. Please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 93, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 37, Communists, “Litvina Block” – 0, non-fractional – 0. So the Supreme Council of Ukraine is advocating that we work on the plan that was agreed on Monday at the Conciliation Council, and we call a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. [[concerning the establishment of honours]] [[registration 5182]] The reporter is the national deputy Leonid Kojar. The rapporteur is Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u12	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Leonid Kojara. [[concerning the establishment of honours]] [[Registration number 5182]] The bill proposes to introduce the honorary title “Deserved Diplomatic Officer of Ukraine” in order to identify the professional qualities of the better diplomatic service staff, their contribution to the process of state-building, the national interests of Ukraine in the field of external relations, the status and development of the service. The bill also proposes to extend the scope of State awards by incorporating the concept of “State administration”. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the proposed bill to comply with its requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, noted in its conclusion that the bill was generally registered in compliance with the requirements of the Rules. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budgeting, as a result of its consideration of the bill, noted that it would not have an impact on the income or expenditure of part of the budget. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs, having considered the bill, approved at its meeting to recommend it for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the bill, supported it as part of the implementation of the honorary title “Deputy Diplomatic Officer of Ukraine” because, under the current Ukrainian Law on National Awards, the sphere of diplomatic service as a professional activity of Ukrainian citizens, aimed at the practical implementation of Ukraine's foreign policy, the protection of Ukraine's national interests in the field of international relations, as well as the rights and interests of our people and legal persons abroad, is not rightly included in the list of branches and spheres in which relevant honours are established. At the same time, it is the view of the administration that it is not right to treat government in a certain sphere, because government is a type of State activity that is subject to the exercise of governance, i.e. the organizational influence on those spheres and sectors of social life that require a certain intervention by the State by the exercise of the powers of executive power. Thus, the management believes that the result of the first reading may be that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made. During the discussion at a meeting of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule did not agree on the conclusion of the bill. As a result, the committee decided to submit a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian State Prize Act, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Leonid Kojara, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its final decision. [[concerning the establishment of honours]] [[Registration number 5182]] Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u13	No questions asked by the reporter? Is it? Please sign in. Three minutes. Names of the national MPs, please. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u14	Pass the carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u15	The right to speak is passed on to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u16	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear reporter, please tell me I didn't get it. What is the decision, how many people, how many people have voted for, let's say, to recommend a decision to the Supreme Council, or to just divide the votes. This is the first time. And second. As you personally as a representative of the Communist faction, as a national MP, you feel that all the decisions that we are making right now are totally illegal because nine cards of national MPs vote as ministers, governors, heads of state committees. And that's for nine months! So there's a brutal violation of the Constitution. How do you personally evaluate this because you are not voting for this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. I bring it to your attention that a committee of eight Ukrainian national deputies voted in favour of the bill by three members of the committee against – 4 and a national deputy of Ukraine, which resulted in no decision being taken by the committee, and the committee proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be appointed. As for the second part of your question, I would recommend to you, as a very experienced national deputy of Ukraine, that you address the regulatory committee, and in another way that you have and are provided for in the Act on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine: to address and ask this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u18	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Javorovski Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u21	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, 100 constituency, Kirovograd. Dear reporter, I think that we, the people's deputies, are very, very talented. With what? But what immediately, on the second day after our election, is assigned to us the term “national”. I think that, at first, it would have to be “deserved” as well as actors and then “national”. Well, we can't do anything anymore. That's what it is. That's why I'm asking you questions. Let's, maybe, because today we have such a luxurious life, in Ukraine, all the problems that have been solved, there's only one thing left to do about the title of some of these things, so let's think about it, maybe we'll do it, and we'll really do it, "the worthy MP of Ukraine for the first time," then, second, third, fourth? Also, I think it would be very good, since we have refused today, the Party of Regions has refused to actually consider the question of the co-conspirators, so how do you view such a term, say, “deserved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. I'd like to tell you that the great state, which was the Soviet Union, could have allowed itself to assign titles, and these titles were proudly worn by ordinary people. I would also like to remind you that the very political forces that you have supported throughout the whole 20th century have brought to the presidents of Ukraine for their importance, for them to take the image to assign these titles. I believe that in a normal state there should be a normal term. And these people are far abroad carrying out an appropriate mission, and it is diplomatic that comes, including at the right time and to help you, and "Deserved Diplomatic Officer" for those who have worked for many years that it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u23	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Time's up. Sit down. Dear colleagues, since they did not support the proposal to deal with this issue under a reduced procedure, I now propose to sign up, register first from factions and then from deputies. If we don't, we'll put those who want to vote. Please record. May I have the names of the national deputies? Yes, and now please record directly to the national MPs. Name, please. So let's do it because 15 people, well, not more than 25 minutes. No objections? Valentina Matviev, Communist faction, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, what is the introduction, in particular the honorary title “Deserved employee of the Ukrainian diplomatic service” about. The question raised in his draft law, colleague Kojar, will contribute, indeed, to the further enhancement of the prestige of the diplomatic service, to the promotion of its authority as an important tool to ensure Ukraine's interests in the field of external relations. I don't think it does, no doubt. This is true and could be supported by this bill, but there is one great “but”. Notice, if you have this draft decree, that the honourable national MP, the author of the legislative initiative, went on. At the end of his legislative proposals, he stressed in particular that the honorary titles of Ukraine are assigned to individuals, i.e. this refers to absolutely all the honours we have today in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards. Thus, they are assigned to persons working in the appropriate field of government. So I would like to ask, and what about the question of assigning the honorary title "The People's Architect", "The People's Artist", and more "The People's Teacher"? They're working in the government? That's if you do. As far as educational institutions are concerned, they are most relevant to municipal institutions, even private ones. Thus, it is certainly not possible to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u25	Alexander Steshenko, BUT faction, please. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, our constituents! The Kingdom of Heaven to the beautiful man of Chernomyrdin. If he had become president, perhaps we would have another Russia today. But that's another question. But he said a beautiful phrase: “Speak, our companion hangs without work. We have a lot to do, but we have to work.” It's a brilliant absolute phrase. I am leading this to the fact that, indeed, we live in a remarkable country in which a budget was to be made in September, and it is not to this day and is unknown when it will be. We have a unique country in which to this day we do not know how much, not how many percent, but specific people voted in elections. In a normal country, we would have to know in two hours how long people voted. It's absolutely understandable why this is being done. Since it is possible to throw in today, he and Kilincari have just spoken, it is still possible to throw in today. As many ballots as it takes, they'll throw as many. We live in a country that is now in the potential of human development beyond Azerbaijan, behind Russia, even in Belarus. And we decide today we are gathered, we have co-conspirators who violate the Constitution on purpose. And the Party of Regions doesn't even vote for it. I'd like to ask you a question. And now we're on the verge of solving a colossal problem. Let's divide our diplomats into deserved and undeserving diplomats. But in a normal state, in a normal world, in a normal morality, the highest name is the human name. An honest human name, known in the nation, has no greater name and cannot be. Today, we have led to the horror of the status of the Hero of Ukraine. Look, I don't want to name names, I don't want to insult anyone. But as for me, among the living, one Ukrainian Hero is Leukko Lukyanenko, who was in prison for a year waiting for the shooting, for Ukraine, which is today. Today we're handing out to the right, to the left, Yushchenka especially celebrated in this, Orders. Who today, you know, among the heroes? So this title is already completely simplified. I already told you about the deputies. Let's do the title "deserved MP" again, because the national, you know, that came and went. And a well-deserved national MP. And let's also divide them by different cadences and so on. That's why I think it's an absolute frost today. Once again, in a normal country, the highest name is human. Because of this “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” the legislator will not vote for this frost. And I ask all those who do so to reject this question absolutely, because tomorrow we will share the well-deserved doorman, the people, deserved and undeserving. We won't vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u27	Ruslan Knazević, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, this is actually a classic example of when people must have wanted a good idea, but it was raised in such a necklace that it was a waste of the idea itself. And it probably won't have any prospects for support by definition. What are we talking about? I understand that, indeed, there must be some kind of incentive among diplomatic workers for people to grow up and to take certain steps each year that strengthen their professional level. While there are special diplomatic ranks in the diplomatic service, there are attachés, third secretary, and so forth. One does not interfere with the other. Yet again, if we take a valid law, we will see that there is a well - deserved artist and a well - deserved cultural worker. This is just about the diplomatic sphere, which is that we don't even allow the ability to have a merited diplomat, for example, because in those lists that apply to each of the sectors of agriculture, it's only about technical personnel, not professionals. I think the drafters themselves have mixed the peas with cabbage. But the greater concern is really the second part, which many colleagues from the Communist faction have already been told about here, is that in the second part of one sentence, the idea of assigning any names in the country is completely wasted. Or let's just give up this idea once and for all as the atavim of the Soviet era, but we'll be honest with each other, and we won't, in this way, in a completely disgraceful way block the possibility of getting the names of all the other people who don't work in the field of executive power. Because now we've come to the point that only executives, solely executive authorities, even those state bodies that don't have government functions, won't be able to get any title. I think it's absurd to be filmed from the very beginning. What is more, it is still necessary to deal with a very neat type of bill because there is always some kind of subtle detail, softly speaking, that distorts the whole specificity of the bill’s regulation. This isn't the first time, but I'd like to believe that really the diplomats who initiated this question did these things completely unconsciously. Therefore, if this bill is to be adopted by the majority in the first reading, it should be radically changed before the second reading, if, frankly, it is to leave such an institution as "honorable titles" to date in Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u29	Eugene Kirilchuk. There were some, dear colleagues, at the end of Taras Cranville. Taras Blackwall has a right to say. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, today the reporters have not informed us how much this will cost the state budget. It's not adding up, it's not budgeting today, and I'm really stressing that it's not known when it's going to be. Because the following week of committee work, as a budgeter, I say that the committee will not meet next week because there is no code or budget for the following year. And here's the bill on increasing government budget expenditure. I want to look at the other side, and I want you to pay attention, and what's the process of assigning these names. The head of the U.S. government is here in Kiev upstairs, whom he thinks he needs, and he submits. I can do dozens of examples when the deputy district administration in retirement broke down the entire agriculture in the area and then received the title of a farm worker. That's absurd. In the area, people laugh about it. I mean, to whom you want and assign, because you have all the power today, including from the bottom to the top. If there was a separate article in this law, that title would be discussed with the people, either in the field, or in the area, of the territory. And when people ask for it, insist, it's only then that you can pass it up, and all that under the carpet is done. To whom the papers were made, they filed, and here on the top they approved, and give additional expenses from the state budget. It is that taxpayers who today put the last penny into the budget should pay these taxes to people who have never been and will never be deserved. Now he had to report to the one who did. either the author, or the committee, and as far as we're concerned, there's a lot of merit in Ukraine. We occupy one of the first places in Europe where these names are most assigned. We will soon be presented with a well - deserved cleaning lady, a deserving homosexual who can do anything. You guys are good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u31	Finish the talk. Sergey Vlasenko, BUT faction. Microphone, please turn it on. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u32	Sergey Vlasenka of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I'm going to allow myself to disagree with a few previous speakers who said it was a matter of passage. It's not a question of passage. Unfortunately, we have to say that the system of state awards in Ukraine is completely devalued and completely compromised. On the one hand, public rewards are awarded to individuals with severe breaches of the statutes of these awards. We have a totally incomprehensible list of these rewards, a totally incomprehensible list of the names that we are currently considering. Imagine a situation, suppose there is a well-deserved employee of science and technology in the Federal Republic of Germany, or in Romania, or even in the Republic of Congo. This looks ridiculous. Sadly, though, such a term in Ukraine is normal. It's on the one side. Sadly, on the other hand, there has been a widespread practice of giving public rewards to those who have reached a certain age. A man has reached the age of 60 -- get an order unknown for what, unknown how. Probably for living up to 60. This, too, is totally unacceptable. So what I would say is that it's not about supporting the bill of the honourable national MP now or not supporting it? It is a matter of systematizing the system of State rewards in Ukraine, making it clear, clear and essential to adhere to the relevant statutes when it comes to awarding certain awards and other honors. It should be noted that, in commenting on the bill, the honourable author pointed out that this would not cost the state budget. That's not true at all. Under the same law, any honorable title provides for the payment of the corresponding funds to pay. Of course, this burden is a government budget. This is also totally unacceptable in this situation when the state budget is not implemented by income or expenditure. We heard a report yesterday from the State Tax Administration that the state budget is not complete for 7 billion dollars and 5 billion dollars, and accordingly we're going to have to increase the costs to start paying to those unknowns. To whom do they deserve, to whom do they deserve, to whom do they deserve, to whom do they deserve, and to whom do they not deserve? I think that everyone who is currently working in the economy of Ukraine, who is working for the benefit of Ukraine, is already one of the things that is deserved and doesn't have to make one more deserving and the other less deserving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u33	Andrew School, BUT faction. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u34	Thank you! Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, colleagues, of course, as a member of the Committee in legislative matters, we discussed this issue, no, I don't mind, believe me, I don't mind, let all of us be deserved, except I don't want there to be such a profession where we don't deserve it. It must mean “deserved criminal of Ukraine”, well, it is a profession, by the way, it is a profession! We have many “deserved criminals” who have become known people, some have even become president, remember? So let's do it this way, everybody has to be, there's a merited employee of the system. The penitentiary system should be a well-deserved secret associate of the BSS, all of them should be deserved. Because, come on, if you're going to get dirty, that's it. On the other hand, why, if there is a merited filmmaker, why can’t there be a deserving diplomat? Well, we have a country like this, look, there's no budget and no one's even "crazy," because if there's no budget for Ukraine, it doesn't know how to live next year. Nobody cares, whether there is a budget in Ukraine or not, whether there is a budget in Ukraine or not. Well, that's interesting to us, but we know perfectly well that the budget will be delivered on the last day, in five minutes it will be voted and forgotten, here the discussion in the session room will be essentially formal. And we're paying so much attention here, maybe right, to the state reward. We have a great history with national awards in general. Our president has received the Order of the Legion of Honor for outstanding credits to France. I asked, and I wonder, what outstanding credit does the current president have for France? Tihypco has the Order of the Legion of Honor, he has tremendous merit in France, because we now have a colossal representative of French business and French economy, the La Farge Group here in Ukraine, thanks to Mr. Tihypkov. So I don't know that Ukraine has lost what I've gained because of what the Ukrainian President has done to France? So I think that's the focus that's been given. I say again, the interim real issue, it's given to the system of incentives and rewards in Ukraine, devaluation and destruction. So let's just do a little bit of bullying and moaning. Let's go now, I think we've got an insult to agriculture here, because there's no merit there, I don't know if there's any other merit. We need everyone to be deserved. A well-deserved merchant is, so why can't I be a deserving buyer of Ukraine, I can't understand it. Well, a lot of people are also deserving. They often buy. The person who buys food at the Ukrainian store and lives to be 60 is a well-deserved person. Believe me, it brought a huge chunk of money into the Ukrainian economy. So let's, if there are sellers, even buyers, be deserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u35	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next thing you know, Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u36	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national MPs, the bill proposes to establish the honorary title of Ukraine “deserved Ukrainian diplomatic officer” and to clarify the list of fields and spheres in which the honours of Ukraine are assigned by means of the introduction of corresponding additions to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. We note that the bill proposes to extend the scope of government awards by including state administrations. However, State administration is a kind of State activity that involves the exercise of governance, i.e. organizational influence, and the spheres and spheres of social life that require a certain intervention by the State, by using the powers of executive power. Let us also note that the comparative table does not fully reflect the proposals set out in the draft law. In conclusion, I want to say the following. Dear colleagues, yesterday we have shown that when it comes to principled, fundamental State-wide decisions that are strategically relevant to the country, the State-State decisions, we are united and we have a constitutional majority. Yesterday, thanks to the BUT faction and the faction of our Ukraine, and other factions, the President's proposal to appoint Attorney General Viktor Pavlovich Pshonka was supported. Nearly 300 votes received a new mandate of confidence from the Public Prosecutor. Thanks to this, both BUT and Our Ukraine, having received 300 votes, he has received such a credit of confidence that he can now put order in the country: fight corruption, crime, and his hands are now untied within the framework of the law and the Constitution. And I want to say the following. Let's show today that we didn't have a situational majority yesterday to deal with just one matter for the prosecutor, but every time it comes to basic laws, we're going to have 300-400 votes. I suggest that today there be 400 votes, not 300 votes, and not 400 votes, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u37	People's deputy Kravchuk, the BUT faction, please. Is it? Please. Yes, there is, there
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u38	Where's Crawchuk? Let's see Crawchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u39	Is there a tie? Yes. I'm sorry, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u40	Mikhailo Kosov. Dear colleagues! I want you to listen to me, because you have a well-deserved Ukrainian artist standing before you. But what I'm saying is that it's not the first time in this room that we've returned to filling the honors of the various professions of our fellow countrymen. And there's something going on, well, inhospitable, some sort of order in this law we don't have. Let's make this happen. Let's take a permanent census of all the professions that exist in the state. We have such a routine of all professional assignments. And in each of these professional responsibilities, we will assign honorary titles and identify those who may bear that title. And there will be no such, as it were, ridicules that are already here. Well, if there is, let's say, a deserving man in one field, why can't there be a deserving man in the business of completely all professional activities in our country. That's one thing. Now the second one. Imagine there's a meeting or a meeting of our diplomats with foreigners. On our side is a diplomat who is called a merited diplomat, and on the American, English, German, who is an undeserving diplomat. Don't you think we're just putting ourselves in front of the world? And third, last. I started by saying that I have this title, although I, believe me, never sign where I write anything, I never put, let's say, this is a sign that I am a well-deserved actor in the art of Ukraine. Let's draft a new law, I've developed it in the Supreme Council of Second Collegiate, and in general, let's eliminate all the names that we've given birth to. And that will be the only normal approach to this question. Let us do what is done in other nations. Well, let's say, for all of us, it's the Order of the Legion of Honor or some other similar merit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u41	Taras Cranville, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I liked that principle so much, well, I just wanted to give it a round of applause! A representative of the Committee, head of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, is speaking. We're done, diplomats don't deserve anything. I'll call him later, so let's get rid of it. We'll bring in together, you and I will introduce a project on the elimination of the title of folk artist, folk artist, everyone else, art actor? “Oh, no!” he does not want. A famous lawyer is speaking. What bad diplomats! They don't need it. They're nothing, they're only hurting Ukraine! Why can't I see on his behalf a signed project on the elimination of the title of a well-deserved lawyer in Ukraine? 'Cause that's what it's all about. Because he writes softly, regardless of what opposition he has to his lawyers, the lawyers he works with. I'm sorry. Let's stop playing with this meanness. As long as there is a system of honors, which is obviously anachronism, but until it is formally eliminated, we must at least create an adequate equality in this regard. I agree that the best option was simply to eliminate these titles as a factor. Make sure they don't. And to all the people who had received it, it was an honor to see them once. But stop there. And today all payouts, all additional rights to eliminate. Because when a merited diplomat is met, as it has just been said, with an undeserving American diplomat, it's strange. And when a well-deserved artist in the arts of Ukraine meets an undeserving actor in the arts of France or America, or another, who is a Nobel laureate known worldwide, is that not surprising? I'm surprised. That's why we either eliminate the entire title. Until we've eliminated it, and I'm sure there will never be a vote in this room to eliminate the system of honors altogether, then let's define it this way. There are areas of activity. A system of honors should be clearly established for them without detail. If there is a well - deserved lawyer, it is understandable that it was absurd to introduce the title of the merited notary that the Ministry of Justice once demanded of us. Absurd. Because they all fall under a well - deserved lawyer. There's a well-deserved economist. Wonderfully, then, you don’t have to make carpenters, coals, and other individual deserving ones. But they did, because someone needed them. There is a well-deserved farmer. The speaker, who protested against a deserving diplomat, did not want to eliminate a deserving farmer. So let's define what we're only going to do in the main areas of six or seven titles, but it's diplomats who are the names. and a profession that doesn't fall under any of the current directions. I believe that today the diplomats have become hostages of what someone wanted to do in the hall. And now the last two points. The wise only thing said to Mr. Matthew, who made it clear that the law problem was in the last part. And that's why I have a proposal, particularly to Mr. Chechtov: let's take the first reading today; to the second reading we're throwing out the second part, it's really problematic; we're listening to Mr. Matthew, he actually said the wise thing; we're voting in the first reading so that we don't lose.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please, Sergey Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I hope that the fruitful discussion that has taken place today will be a starting point for order in the prize work. I'd like to ask you a question: “And who devalued the rewards in Ukraine?” Exactly, without exception, those who spoke, the representatives of those political forces, supported those presidents who had rewarded in the past, devalued the rewards. You tell me, there are rewards among those who have not given up. They come out and tell us what a bad thing it is, but no one has given up the medal or even the small medal. And the next. I would like to report to my colleague Kirilchuku himself, who said there was no calculation. It was your committee that concluded at its meeting that it had no burden on the income or expenditure of the budget. I think the committee has given you that position about expanding the sphere of government, and this should certainly be excluded from the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide how to vote on the document. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law registration number 5182 on the amendment to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. [[concerning the establishment of honours]] [[11:16:56]] For-19 The decision is not taken. In view of this low level of support, there is good reason to state that the bill has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on Failsafeties]] At the same time, the author of the bill, Sergey Podgorny, made a request for a meeting of the PACES General Assembly, held in Trabzon from 2 to 5 November, he suggested that the matter should be postponed. Now, one minute. Or will Sergey Mishchenko ask for a report then? You don't want to. Then I'll put you to the vote on the transfer, and you make the decision. I am voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft Law registration number 5419 in connection with a letter from one of the authors of the draft law on transposition. [[11:18:36]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have not agreed to postpone consideration of this matter, then the committee, and we will discuss it afterwards. Why don't we take a brief look at it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'm going to put to the vote a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Well, the Supreme Council is to be determined. Come on. So the offer was and we should vote it out? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. A proposal is being put to the vote! [[11:19:29]] Z-11. Clearly, it is not enough to make a decision. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergey Gordijenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine dated 08.12.2009, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Podgorný, Mishchenk, Sinchenk, Crnovol, Zvarič on 14 December 2009. [[concerning the failure of forgeries in the electoral process]] [[Registration number 5419]] The bill proposed to amend the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, which should have dealt with the following issues: clarifying the list of voters, including in the foreign constituencies; organising the voter vote for the place of residence; drawing up the electoral commission's minutes on the voter's vote; and summarizing the vote within the respective territorial constituency on the outcome of the election day of the President of Ukraine, as well as the procedure for transporting electoral documentation to district electoral committees and to the Central Electoral Commission. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Presidential Elections Act as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. [[concerning the failure of forgeries in the electoral process]] [[Registration number 5419]] In view of the fact that the electoral process in the election of the President of Ukraine took place during the consideration of the project, he believed that it was appropriate to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government with the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and proposals of the subject-matter of the legislative initiative within a five-day period, by setting a three-day deadline for the submission of such comments and proposals, and to bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council on second reading. The relevant draft decree was submitted to Parliament but was not adopted. My individual opinion is that today's focus on this issue has been removed, and what was proposed in this bill would be most appropriate in a single comprehensive document, which should be called the “election code of Ukraine”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u47	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, what do we vote on? Anyone who wishes to speak, please register with the factions. And then we'll vote. Bodnar, Knyazevich and Demčishen. Now, please sign in, please. And you will be, yes. Everyone is entitled to the faction. Now from the factions, please. Just the people's deputies, please. Yes, Bodnar, Knyazevich, Demchisin, Chechetov and Matviev. And I think so. Yeah, and let's stop at that. Fifteen minutes, no objection? Please, Olga Bodnar. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u48	Olga Bodnar, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Paternal Party”. Dear colleagues, I do not agree with my committee colleague that it is no longer relevant to deal with this issue today. I thought, I think, and I think that before the elections, we can never change electoral legislation, and we have to accept it once and for all, just to improve it, not to do it. Five minutes before the election, we make some changes, and then we grab a voice that we can't implement, or we're talking about transparency in the election process, and it ends with us just looking for a way to make this election worse. So if we want to run an election, not a farce, then this bill has to be supported first. I don’t think anyone here can make up for the fact that today must be prevented from falsifying the list. This is exactly what the bill provides, and the correction, and the inclusion, and the charges must be made very timely, and not when someone wants to come and masseuse the voters there, to include their masses. The bill also regulates voting at home. At home are those who cannot really move on their own, who cannot do so by age, because of their disability, according to their health, cannot be a whole country, made up of one disabled person. There can be no such thing as an 18 - 20 - year - old sitting around asking to come to her home, for she suddenly sticks her eggs there, and at that time the electoral commission should stop their work and run to him and help him glue them. The details of the contents of the protocols provided for in the bill will also improve the situation with what we now have. If today’s bulletin, more loyally, excuse me, has only eight items to be listed in the VAT protocol, and we can only see for eight points whether a forged protocol or not, the authors suggest that this amount be increased by 16 positions. In this case, it will also improve the ability to prevent counterfeiting. So let's zoom out like this. And another positive point that I'm stressing is the details of ticket transport. There is no such detail today. Therefore, once again, it can be assumed that in transporting ballot papers you can expect counterfeiting or changing the will of citizens, counterfeiting there, missing tickets on the road, not going there, instead of taking them to the VC, taking them to a coffee shop and replacing the bags of "Grandpa Frost". So I think that in this case, if we really are democratic principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u49	Ruslan Knazević, faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u50	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I think we need to replicate in our memory a little bit of retrospective on this issue so that we can get a better idea of what decision to make. I'll remind you of the summer of 2009, there's an active work in the session room of the Law, the new edition, "On Elections of the President of Ukraine." Unfortunately, two large factions actively vote for it, they accept it more than 300 votes, and then, during the election races, they understand, at least perhaps a single part that has taken on something that needs to be radically changed, because all the fundamental things that have been put in it do not overlap or, let's just say, compensate for the shortcomings that have been in electoral legislation before, but open up huge gateways to forging elections. That's why this bill was introduced, notice, in December 2009, during the electoral campaign, when there was little chance on the march to regulate those stages of the electoral process that had not yet been followed. Unfortunately, it has happened that this bill has been put on Parliament's committee for a year. I would like to remind you that another bill that eliminated the quorum during the day of the panel vote was introduced far later than December, and by January 2010, it was adopted as a whole. There were no obstacles, and there were no technological problems. As far as this bill is concerned. It turned out that he had a great deal of attention to the committee. And so the committee was forced to read 10 pages of this bill a year. What are you talking about? The bill actually reproduces better work in the field of electoral legislation. and, in particular, regulating the President's election, which has been in Ukrainian reality for 20 years. You know, now the president has created a working group on electoral legislation. But we feel like we're starting work in a fresh new place. And if it's on the way out, I'll tell you, they're going to take what's been working for 10 years, and they're going to bring it as their own, just a little bit of a push to some political reality. So this bill as the basis for, let's say, a large codification act, from which, unfortunately, other bills are not compiled, it would be worth not rejecting today, and here, in the session room, deciding what the Chief of the Supreme Council was talking about, and creating its own working group for the preparation of the relevant electoral legislation. Moreover, we have several types of the Electoral Codex. One even worked with a group of deputies from all factions. Now someone outside Parliament is working on their electoral legislation for Parliament, for parliamentary elections, think about it. And then we, like blind buttonholes, will vote for him without even being able to join his work. So please be very careful. And this is about the President's election, first of all, even though the day before, we had a parliamentary election. So that it doesn't happen that we're going to get a package of what we vote for, and then we're going to go ahead with the bills, and over the course of the year, we're going to find fleas in them so that we don't accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u51	Demcishen, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill was introduced by the author before the presidential election. Then it was very relevant and it was, indeed, needed to be settled somewhere else. I don't think we need to rush into this bill right now. There is a President's mandate that we should adopt such a Parliament-wide document, an electoral code that would settle all of the issues and all the electoral levels of both the locals and the presidents and the people's deputies. And to this work, and to agree, there will be involved and foreign experts who will make their experience in adopting a document that is so important to us. Of course, the bill that our colleague passed is both positive and there are many inadequacies. So I think, and I propose that this bill be rejected, and calmly, weighed down to prepare the Electoral Code, approve once and for all and work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u53	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to amend certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, which deals with the issue of the clarification of voter lists, including in the foreign constituencies, the organization of voter voting at the place of residence, the establishment by the regional election committees of the minutes of the voter polling committee in the constituencies, the district election committee of the constituencies within the respective territorial and electoral district, the Central Election Commission of the election day of the election of the President of Ukraine, as well as the arrangements for the transport of electoral documents to the District Election Commissions and the Central Election Commission. However, some of the footnotes ’ content is not in harmony. Thus, it is envisaged that complaints of inaccuracies in previous voter lists will be dealt with no later than two days before the day of the vote. Part 5 of article 32, paragraph 3, of chapter I, first paragraph, and the list of voters clarified shall also be transmitted to the authorities of the State Election Register of the District Electoral Commission no later than two days before the day of the vote. These are changes to part of article 34, paragraph 3, of section 2. Thus, there may be a situation where the decision of the DTC to clarify the voter lists, which was adopted two days before the day of the vote, is not taken into account by the public registration authority when the exact list of voters is drawn up. In addition, the project provides a fixation of the VAT protocol on, firstly, the number of voters voting at the place of residence, this is part two, part two, part two, paragraph 12. Second, the number of voters voting in the voting room of the voting day is part two of article 79, paragraph 11. And the third, total number of voters voting at the polling station is part two of article 79, paragraph 13. Based on the content of article 78, section 24, of the current law, the total number of voters voting is determined by counting ballots from the ballot boxes. This results from the contents of articles 17, 24 of this series. It turns out that ballot papers are counted together, not separately, in each box. However, the current article 78 does not provide for a separate calculation of ballots from stationary and portable ballot boxes. I think that the President's proposal is no longer to pursue conjuncture before the elections there in the fourth year or there in the seventh year when they were termed, and once again to develop a single electoral code for the term perspective and guide the election. And I think you can take into account the wise suggestions of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u55	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u56	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to a colleague of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with Vladimir Moses the position that the issue that we are currently considering is extremely important. But, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to move on the issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of the individual national deputies, which is now the last one. And then we're not just going to waste time, as we're now doing a game of time delay. That's the first one. The other one. When I look at this law, I want to say that it significantly improves the law that was about the President's election, and it was extremely necessary just when it was introduced in December 2009. It was at the time that it was important to make sure that there were no votes at home, and it was then important to do everything possible to make the changes that had been proposed in this law regarding, as well as the complaints, the external statements, what their content, as from abroad, what to do abroad, if a person was not included in the voter list, what to do with the voting of the members of the commission? These are all the positive norms that are bound to enter the new Code of Elections to all levels in Ukraine. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are already seriously considering what the President's mandate is to create, so to speak, and to introduce a bill. Would it have been logical and beautiful if the Head of the Supreme Council had created a group in preparation for the President’s decrees? Would it be beautiful? We have divided branches of power. As a result, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we must somehow correct, explain, that Mr. President, obviously, let us not do so. And I ask you, coming out of the Constitution of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I would like to stress, in article 88 of Part II, where the Ukrainian national deputies cannot be on the public service, the direct standard of the Constitution, and 77 of Part III, where each national deputy swore to observe the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out his duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen, asking to be instructed to block the cards of Ukrainian National Deputies, whom no one had seen in the Hall of Meetings, are both ministers, and two governors, and four heads of deputees and other people. These cards work today, make decisions, and any decision we make can be declared unconstitutional on this basis. Every day, when I look at every question, I'm going to ask this question and I'm going to work on these appeals to constitutional courts today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, do not jeopardize all legislation in Ukraine, read.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u59	Thanks, it's not a theme show, that's all! I can't! You're actually stalling the question of delegating, we would have long gone into this. That's it, thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u60	I have one sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u61	One sentence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u62	Honorable Volodymyr Mihailovich, in a decision of the court on September 30, the Constitutional Court, it is stated that laws adopted in violation of the procedure are not valid. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u63	Thank you, thank you! Because Taras Cranville is supposed to be performing, and you're taking time from him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand that, with this particular bill, my voice will be "a voice singing in the desert", obviously not passing, but I would like to break away from politics. Then, when he was accepted, he was really as relevant as the representatives said, including coalitions, but then we understand very well, the political mood was that everyone was waiting for something to be done against him. It was absolutely impossible even to expect the adoption of any such bill; the mistrust in the hall was colossal. As of today, we have two things: on the one hand, all the laws on elections, including the President's Elections Act, which are all recognized as having a lack of quality, including the President, who said that we should change. On the other hand, we have the President's proposal to create a group that would end with a new bill on elections in general, the Electoral Code. It's all beautiful, but do you know how this ends? Because, after about two years, it will be found that the group was working, nothing worked, the Syrian law will be reintroduced, and we will get exactly 100 percent of the same situation that was with the Referendum Act, which then disappeared and, thank God, no one mentions it because it contradicted the Constitution, or the Local Elections Act, which was severely criticized by the same President as it should be amended. And then we were specially going to make those changes happen. So, in my opinion, waiting for an introduction on behalf of the President or in some other way of a document that would be complex, it's great if it were, but not to sit in this expectation by putting your hands together. Our job is to legislate, not just sittin' around in the Supreme Council. And that's why we're going to work on improvement step by step, including electoral legislation. If a comprehensive presidential bill is introduced, all existing laws in this area will be repealed if a code is introduced, and this will be a completely new one. We're not hurting that future project. But if there's a risk that it might not be accepted, not prepared, at the last moment introduced, is it better today step by step to take away a number of problems. Mikhail Vasilovich, others mentioned that there were some disagreements in the project. Yes, of course they are, but no one speaks of acceptance in general. Before the next presidential election, thank God for more than four years, for almost five years we can quietly work on all these materials. I say again, they can then lie down and help that committee that's created by the President*** when they work on the basis. So, understanding that my position is not going to be supported, I'm still going to make a suggestion: or maybe we're going to vote in the first reading, we're going to work on the second, so that at least the base from which the president's commission is going to be pushed away, this foundation is a little bit better. Better on a better foundation than on a rotten foundation. Today we have a rotten foundation. Well, hopefully that's enough voices all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion is over. From the Valentin Matthew faction, please the faction has the right under the Rules. What, what? Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the entire organization of elections to local self-government bodies, which have just taken place where they are, affirms that this is the way we can continue to develop all the electoral legislation. Because we're always patching things up, or we're even trimming this electoral legislation into one election or another. And really, the question was very serious about the drafting of an electoral code that would regulate absolutely all the positions that relate to starting with the preparation, the technology of the election, the organization of the election. And most importantly, this is the summation of the results of any vote in elections or local elections, local self-government bodies, or local councils, or Ukrainian national deputies, or even the President of Ukraine. And perhaps this is where the initiative should follow us, according to the Supreme Council. We can't stand outside. And I think, first of all, it's about the initiative of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, of course, with the involvement of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, and we have a high-level expert on these issues, the responsible and even the members of the Central Electoral Commission, who have been doing the right thing for many years, and certainly with the involvement of scientific institutions and public organizations. As far as the proposed bill is concerned, I think a highly professional analysis of the draft legal act has been made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. A detailed conclusion on this bill suggests that there is no point in supporting it today, i.e. I have this bill to amend the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Yes, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on Failsafeties]] [[Registration number 5419]] [[11:46:45.]] For-83 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 5419]] [[11:47:09]] For-93 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 67, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 23, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 0, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials. [[concerning the manufacture of antireticular cytotoxic serum]] [[Registration number 5197]] Dear colleagues, how would you feel about considering this issue in a simplified manner? Yeah, yeah, that's how we vote. [[11:48:17]] For-38 The decision is not taken. We're looking at the normal procedure. The rapporteur is the head of the Soroczynska-Kyrilenko Raisa Mikolayovna Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Your point is to consider a bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials of Ukraine, a human being. Registration number 5197 from 07/102009 It is designed to solve an extremely important health problem. In view of the specific medical nature of the problem, let me explain. We all know that the modern supply of drugs to the Ukrainian population does not satisfy the needs of the population. About 60 percent of drugs are imported from the United States, Europe, and India. About 90 percent of Ukrainian medicines are made from imported raw materials. This all affects the cost of drugs. At the same time, their quality cannot always be verified. Today, it is a Ukrainian drug that was developed in 1924 by an outstanding Ukrainian scientist, Alexander Alexandrovich Bogomolec. It's an antireticular cytotoxic serum used to stimulate reactivity with the overall resistance of the human body. The widespread use of antireticular cytotoxic serums took place during the Great Homeland War. The high effectiveness of the drug is demonstrated in the treatment of immunodeficiency associated with lower immunological reactivity, prolonged and chronic inflammatory processes, postoperative, postoperative, post-dwelling, all clinical forms of atherosclerosis, ischaemic heart disease, and so on. Another promising way to use this drug is to treat people with HIV. This serum is made from the blood of horses hyperimmune with antigens produced from the cells of the spleen and the bone marrow of the human. [[anatomical material]] Unfortunately, today the production of raw materials has been suspended due to the fact that the Ministry of Health does not license the manufacturer because such production is subject to the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials. The exclusive right to produce and the only manufacturer of anti-lytic cytotoxic raw material is the Ukrainian company ZAT “Biopharma”. Our legislative initiative is to exclude from the scope of the Law on Transplantation of Antilytic Cytotoxic Raw materials, as it has already been done in relation to donor blood, sexual glands, reproductive cells, and other anatomical materials. Ladies and gentlemen, please support Bill 5197. Your decision will help restore the production of a beautiful Ukrainian medicine, support Ukrainian medicine, and save hundreds and thousands of patients. The adoption of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. I want to tell you that the Supreme Council's ruling and the President's Programme of Immunoprophylactics for the Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases until 2015 has no words to say about the development and production of new gene-engineering, immunological, preventive and treatment drugs. The conclusion is itself: Ukraine is lagging behind from other countries in developing new technologies and manufacturing new - generation medicines. Shopping abroad is extremely expensive for residents of the country. I want to tell you that in Kiev, this century, it's said that there was a transplant in Kiev, a transplant of the kidney of Yuri Crown, there was a transplant of the cornea of Filatov and the third sign of the discovery -- it was the discovery of the antireticulal cytotoxic serum of the Mantis. I believe that this law needs to be passed, and this will improve the treatment of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u69	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. Five minutes will be enough for you to ask? Please give me the names of the national deputies on the board. Eugene Good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u70	Good guy, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block", the "Fatherland" party. Dear Raisa Mikolayevna, you have raised a very important subject regarding the treatment of the sick. Say, please, this is one of the changes to this law, yes, which will be very beneficial. Tell me again whether there will be further changes to the Transplant Act. You know that today it is impossible to properly transplant organs and tissues in Ukraine. You know, this prohibits the law in a straight line, because you just need direct parental permission, which is impossible. Tell me if this is going to be initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. I want to let you know that it's the adoption of the law, the amendment to my law, that will allow you to restore completely within a short period of time an antireticular vaccine. In view of the fact that the decree of the Ministry is allowed in Ukraine and in many countries around the world: in America, in the United States, in European countries, antireticular cytotoxic serum is being prepared and applied. I would like this law to be adopted as soon as possible in our country and most applied. Because a dissipated group of black people need and primarily need children, they have reduced immunity, chronic forms, and the rehabilitation phase of children with tuberculosis, and various tumors in children. Next. It's an absolutely large part of this serum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u72	Yes, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I have a question for you. Have you considered the moral and ethical aspect of this issue? Because things like that happen, that part of, let's say, is supposed to be made out of a bone marrow, and how do you take it? Now, I had to say, 60 times, that's the need to be present at the autopsy of the people when they were investigating the murders. It's a year, I mean. And then I imagine there's still procedures to be done over this corpse that need to be taken by the bone marrow. What's the moral and ethical side, and doesn't it have to be changed here? And how do you feel about that? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. We have the acceptance of these. this law to understand that this is an indirect transplant. We use the antigen from the spleen, from the tissue of the spleen and the bone marrow of the antigen, we use it to hyperimmunize the horses. And it's just a hole in the horse, filtered out, prepared a dose of them, and introduced to sick people. It's not a direct transplant of this substance. And I think it's even a case that, in 1942, when our people were badly injured, a conference was held on the use of antireticulum serum, and the results were wonderful in the world with our soldiers. And it was the Mantis who was already a Socialist hero in 1942.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u75	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u76	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Raisa Mikolayevna, you had two questions before me, and practically in these two questions, two polar approaches to changing the Law on organ transplantation and other tissues. One is the need to develop further transplantation in Ukraine, which is hampered by the law that has been passed with such difficulty. And the other is the lack of acceptance of part of society, because of the moral and ethical, because of religious considerations, the need for further development of transplantology. Do you not agree that only by making point changes to this law do we not resolve all matters? Perhaps your suggestions for antireticular cytotoxic serum. Do you need to continue the list of other drugs? And did not the need for a new edition or even a new law on organ and tissue transplants arise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. I totally agree with your offer. I said there's no new genetic engineering, there's no new immunobiological, preventive, and treatments in the Programme on Immunoprophylactics and Protection of Our Population. I'm convinced that the transplantation in our nation's territory has stopped in its development, it needs to be supported, it needs to be developed in medicine, it needs to be prepared in a new, expanded, law. But to this day, I ask you very much to support this law so that it works. And I am convinced that the Health Committee will prepare a more extensive, extensive, in all kinds and directions of transplantation in Ukraine. I'm sure we'll both support it and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u78	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we will continue to discuss this issue after a recess. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the bill from the committee will be delivered by Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich. [[Registration number 5197]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u80	Honourable National MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, indeed, Ukraine, who first patented the invention of reticular and cytotoxic serum, today as a result of the many times mentioned here, an imperfect law on transplantation, stands on the threshold of what will be forced to purchase it abroad. This paradox, like many others, is certainly at the height of the imperfections of legislation that have been discussed today. But we are not going to solve the problem globally today. There's a question about the serum. In view of this, I would like to report that the Health Committee has considered this bill and the MPs disagree with the conclusion that we are being given by scientific and expert management. Because we want to point out that, first of all, the technology of producing ACS provides for animal hyperimmunization, not human production. So you can't view this process as a transplant. Secondly, for reasons of the need to develop medical care, which cannot contain the presumption of donor consent as defined in the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials. Medical technologies, such as blood donation, genital transplantation, au***totransplantation, implantation, and so on, are generally excluded from the scope of this law. Thirdly, the committee suggested that the proposed standard should be expanded to take into account the technology of other similar products, as well as medical devices that can be created on the basis of similar technologies in the future. The Supreme Council Committee proposes a draft Law amending article 3 of the Law on the Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials of Reticular Man to be adopted on the basis of the first reading and entrusted to the committee, to work with observations, proposals by subjects of the legislative initiative. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u82	Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u83	Dear Mrs. Lila, thank you very much for making this statement at this very moment, and for making it clear that at least now in technical matters, we should move away from the presumption of consent. But as far as the law is concerned, I think there's any doubt here at all, any question cannot stand, it should be adopted by 100%. No morals, no warnings here. And what's your position on that at all. We need to get into a serious rethinking of the donor system, the transplant system, and only get on those lines of laws for the possibility, really, of transplantation not from family, not from relatives, because that's why the whole world is here. We can't say that Germany, France or America -- these are people who have broken moral standards, they are using a normal transplant system. We're dealing with criminal cases. How do you feel about further moving away from the adoption of this law in the future?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u84	Thank you. Thank you very much. I thank you for your position on this particular change in article 3 of the Human Organ and Tissue Transplant Act, and secondly, I certainly thank you for your broader view of the problem. Of course, the socio-economic level, the level of corruption, the level of awareness of society has led us to believe that, when this bill was passed, the main dictionary of this version of the law was a teacher on a committee that is not a national MP today, and that legacy is what we have so far. Perhaps a legislative change would unlock what would become such a topic of widespread propaganda and civic enlightenment. If people understand that I have the right to make a covenant of good will with my own organs or parts to help my fellowman, if, God forbid, there will be one or the other case, of course, if it is good will and there is an understanding of society, we can also approach that threshold. But I have to say, since the adoption of this bill, no particularly important steps have been taken in legislative changes, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u85	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u86	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Lilia Stepanovna, you have answered these questions in part. For example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, there are almost 80 heart centers. Of these, 59 are heart transplants. Powerful transplant centers are in neighboring Poland. For example, many Ukrainian cardiosurgeons have visited Zabrze, where more than 100 transplants are performed only in the heart and lungs. Literally the day before, there was information from the Donetsk Center for Transplantology, where more than 200 people are waiting for a kidney transplant. And I want to ask. Do you support the idea of us creating a working group based on our committee to prepare a new version of the Law on Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials. Because the law is really out of date. And this is only one of the moments that we're looking at, and it's very much happening in our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. I think that maybe adoption today in the first reading, and then in general with the amendments to that position, maybe stimulates or unlocks the process of such stalemate, silence. Dear friends, we can go from transplant to broader problems. Let's face it, in 20 years, no one in Ukraine is reforming anything. Nothing. We don't have time. That before the crisis, then the crisis, then after the crisis, then the elections are timely, then the temporary, then the second government has changed, and we have no good will to adopt the Law on State-wide Health Insurance, which is designed. We have no good will to go back to the problem of transplantology, which is urgent today, because the cost of artificial kidneys ends in many hospitals, we see it. There's no good will. It's the biggest deficit today. I urge all of us from this rostrum today -- the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Government -- to show good will and to start doing the steps that we simply have to do, because the depreciation of society and social mechanisms is just on the border.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Please tell me that now the Ministry of Health has refused to grant permission for the purpose of using anatomical material. And it's motivated by the fact that this is a violation of the law that we are now making changes. So don't you think that we need to make changes to this law that we're talking about right now, but we need to make more thorough changes to this law, where article 116 doesn't give us the right, the Rules, I mean, because that's the only thing we can do. This law needs to be reviewed in general under the requirements of modern times. But to reconcile it with human rights. That's my first question. And the second question is what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin. My colleague Moses gave me his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u92	No, time's up, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u93	I'll finish the second question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And the second question. Do you not think that this phrase was spoken by one of our colleagues so that the moral warnings here should not be understood at all what we need and what we need is moral.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u94	Yes, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u95	Thank you. You know, I think in general, if you think about your speech, the phrase, your colleagues, about the moral warnings that we don't really pay attention to, in fact, after your speech, it becomes clear that you don't have to do anything at all, let's stop -- "like morality." So let's start with a little one. Still, the harvest is made of animals, horses. We're just offering on the first reading. We're going to publish the opinion of the entire consensus committee, and we're going to put the "shape of morality" in this change to the 3rd article of the Transplant Act. Because you know, when people in Mariupol have three weeks left to use artificial kidney equipment, and then they don't know what's going to happen, it's also a moral form. Let us make this small change by showing that our Parliament has not yet reported the absolute deficit of the most important one in the world called the “wheat of the will”, of good will. Let us help people in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u96	Please, do you have everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u97	All of it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u98	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, so let's take the bill as a basis and let the practitioners work with the practice so that we can get to the bottom of this. Please sign up for the discussion. Please put your name on the board. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u99	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I understand of course that Parliament can take a decision on any matter. But there is logic when an economic law is passed, where the majority of the deputies are professionally able to weigh “for” and “against” professionally assess the consequences of the law, evaluate it and politically, may be to some degree, and morally, but above all professionally. I understand that when a bill on social policy is introduced, we communicate with people when we go to the district, and we can also assess the consequences in social and economic life and make professional decisions. But today, we are put in a situation where we are forced to make decisions about the same way when two scientists in nuclear physics, two academics, are debated. Here they have discussed and discussed, and they cannot come to agreement, and they come to the Supreme Council, and they begin to write, tell and speak, confirm my or any other right. It's so thin in here. That is why today it is a delicate and profound question, and in my opinion, if there is no consensus among professionals, that many words and terms are written, even by a literate reader. Different people who have spoken, even read, have just heard those words for the first time. It's purely professionally fine terminology, it's very thin and deep. And at the same time, very, I'd say, life and moral and ethical. Therefore, if there is no consensus among professionals, it is not possible to bring the law to the court of politicians. I don't think that's right. If one part of the professionals says one thing, and Minhvod says another, and there are professionally trained people sitting there, and now they say, "Politicals, in my opinion, are wrong." And I think it would be right if we were to re-read it, and then the trained people on this issue should come to a consensus understanding of both the importance and the pronunciation of the law in a substantive way in order for us to make the right decision. There must not be a purely political solution here, we cannot do so or do not. I can't vote, I don't know, I'm not professional, I don't even know the words, and nobody here clearly even said the terminology correctly. One proposal, therefore, is to re-read, allow professionals who know the problem, whose positions are on different sides of the barricad, to sit at the round table again, to present all the arguments and to come to a common understanding of the substance of the matter. Next, we will make a political decision. I think it's gonna be the right thing to do. On nuclear physics, Parliament should not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u100	Eugene Good. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u101	Good boy. "Julia Tymoshenko Block", the "Fatherland" party. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, there were professionals speaking and proving the truth that this is, indeed, a change that needs to be made, it's the first time. There were no delinquents here, there were all the professionals here. As a doctor, I want to tell you that the adoption of this law, the changes to this law, are very important for saving so many thousands of people, believe me. And I want to say, and I ask Parliament to support these changes. Why? Because today, imperfect Ukrainian legislation on transplantation has led to the death of thousands of people. And it was rightly pointed out today that those unfortunate people who are waiting for a kidney that they cannot transplant in Ukraine are in “Hemodelysis”, “Hemodalysis” ends and people die. What you can say about children who want to, who are waiting for a bone marrow transplant, can't be. Believe me, this is a very important question. How we are in Africa for today! I ask you very much to support, because this is a very, very important question not only for health care but also for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u102	Thank you. Question completed. Question completed. Yes, Carmazin is only three minutes away, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for leaving Carmazin. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to express my opinion of the faction. If this law had saved even one man, it would have been worth accepting, that is the first. The other one. Here, Lilia Stepanovna said that, on my question, she realized that everything, “like morality” we should not forget when we adopt any law, because we accept it for people and how we accept it, will also monitor and watch our civilization in the world, including. Because of these moral warnings there must always be, this is what I say to my colleague, Mr. Chernobyl, whom I have unlimited respect for, but I would like us to apply it in general and always. Ladies and gentlemen, whether we should accept it, I've already said I should. I just want to make it clear that I've been consulting smart people who've been doing this, and they're doing two operations based on this. First, the material is taken from the human body and then introduced to the horses, and then this material is produced. Because of this, he has a direct bearing on the law that we are now considering. And that's why we have to write human rights here, too, because it's all still about human rights. And I propose in this writing - down standard. ” the collection of anatomical materials for.” write the word “obligatory” further in the text. diagnostic research and production of antireticular, cytotoxic serum, and then write down the words “according to the consent of the relatives of the dead”. Nothing of this complexity will be used, the moral factor will be fully taken into account and the law, including the adoption and movement of Ukraine forward in this case, and we will save lives for people and work a company called “Biopharma”, which has already produced this medicine in 1953, which is called “the orphan after the Godfather”, which has been registered and produced all the time. And I'm proposing to cut back on this bill with how we have the right to do it here, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. And I ask you to adopt the law in the first reading and I propose that you shorten the deadline for its preparation. And I even suggested the formula, and I'm asking the committee to take into account my amendments that I've just made, and I'm going to make them in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u104	Yes, please, Shevchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the bill is not harmful, but it can provide some help, a little of course, it does not speak of modern treatments. But what is the significance of this bill? This is the first change to the Transplant Law that has been in force since 1999. The first deviation from the position adopted in Ukraine when it came to patients or relatives’ consent to transplantation. Now, I don't want to speak on either side, and I think we need to have an extremely broad public debate about whether or not Ukraine has matured before acting in the field of transplantology, as in many countries, so that the body, after the death of every human being, is medical, and it doesn't go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u106	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Question completed. Of course, the problem is very interesting, but it's too bad that not the state does it, but companies do it. And there's, you know, there's always some doubt. I am voting for adoption on the basis of Bill No. 5197, the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Other Anatomic Materials. [[concerning the manufacture of antireticular cytotoxic serum]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:51:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. There was an offer for rereading the first reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:51:42]] For 293 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u107	I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. I'll take a look at the transcript. Bill 2678, draft Law on State Support for Sectoral Science, is under consideration. The national deputy of Glazunov will report, please. And get ready for Toothpick. Why don't we take a brief look at it? So let's think about the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:52:33]] Z-62 Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u108	Well, first of all, I'd like to say that the drafters of the bill have given careful consideration to the conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u109	Sergey Mikolayovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, please take a look at the time table. 12.52. Yes. At 1300 hours, you and I have to move on to the “Variance”. If we discuss this law in full procedure, at 1 p.m. we will not go to the “Various”. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Please report to Sergei Mikolaiovich. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u110	I would like to point out once again that the drafters of the bill have carefully considered the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office, as well as the decisions of the Committee on Science and Education, a committee of profile, which, in its decision, proposes to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development, and the authors do not deny it and consider it appropriate to elaborate and submit it taking into account the observations of the Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee's decision. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u111	Sign up for questions if you have. For further work, you ask for further work. Yeah, the committee doesn't object to science? Who is there? None. Yes. Then I propose to support the drafter’s proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. It's also a proposal and a profile committee. Please vote. [[12:54:39]] For 245 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at further development. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the property rights of citizens and the protection of investments is under consideration. Bill author Valery Anatoliyovich Bondik, please. From the committee to prepare Zabarski. Are we voting in favour of a reduced procedure? Let's vote. [[12:55:29]] For 251 Decision taken. Please, Valery Anatolyevich, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! This legislative initiative is due to the fact that in the years of financial crisis, that is, last year, we were confronted by the fact that we were approached by voters. That the constitutionally guaranteed right of ownership, i.e. to financial deposits in various financial institutions, including banks, violated ownership rights in respect of unquestionably demanding deposits. That is, where temporary bank administrations were introduced, the actions ceased, and the direct requirements of the law, the Civil Code, ceased to exist. That the owner must at any time exercise his right, his right to own his deposit, his money. Regrettably, it was necessary to guarantee the right of the depositor to protect his right, including the criminal code. So I made two proposals for regulation, a more precise regulation of article 1075 of the Civil Code, where there is no restriction on the rights of the client to terminate the bank account agreement at any time, unless otherwise provided by law. So the customer has the right to demand damages from the bank and moral damages for early return on deposits, deposits. And protect the client's rights by the standards of the Criminal Code. And so it is done to complete article 200 with a badge one on the illegal actions of the bank officials, i.e. the refusal to issue the first request of the customer by the service persons of the bank's bank contribution, the remainder of the money in the account, the other violation of the client's property rights by the service persons of the bank is punishable by a fine of between 100 and 250 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens or a limitation of the customer's will for a term of up to 3 years. So it's very clear that this bill is meant to protect the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u113	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u114	I'm done, Adam Ivanovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich, head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! At its meeting on 10 February 2009, the Committee on Legal Policy considered a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the property rights of citizens and to protect contributions from 15 December 2008. [[Registration number 3482]] The bill is complemented by article 1060 of the Ukrainian Civil Code as a new part of the refusal of bank contributions to investors. This standard duplicates the position of part two of article 1060, which provides for the bank’s obligation to contribute to the first requirement of the investor. According to article 1075 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, the authors proposed changes regarding the non-admission of the client’s rights when breaking the bank contract, which are also somewhat duplicative. The bill also proposes to establish the criminal responsibility of the bank’s officials for refusing to contribute through the introduction of additions to the Criminal Code. According to the Committee, the establishment of criminal liability is unfounded, because in cases where the actions of the bank officials are seriously detrimental to the interests of the client, the actions of such persons may be qualified under the relevant article of Chapter XVII “Crime in the Field of Service” of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, according to part three of the first part of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the return of the designated bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u117	Thank you. Yes, they are willing to share in the discussion. Please two in, two in, two in. Yes, dear colleagues, since it's 13 o'clock, I'm going to continue for 7 minutes to consider this issue, yes, 6-7. Yes, please, Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u118	The Yulia Timoshenko faction will support this bill because I don't know if there will be a global financial crisis, but because food prices, gas, utilities, and no stability are anticipated in the months and years to come, so this law will be very relevant to protect investors in banks and, if so, to prevent banks from deceiving investors again. We'll support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u119	Please, Grigorovitch is handing over Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u120	Honourable National MPs, 80 percent of the proposals proposed by this bill, are regulated and functioning by the Civil Code. So the customer went to the bank, and the bank had to issue the standard at the first customer's request. It's already settled. The second standard that money is offered for breaking up is that if the client's account were to be accounted for, there's a complete contradiction, there's even no way to figure it out. And there are such innovations that the bank has to do it to the customer immediately. If the customer does not want to do so immediately, why commit him? Secondly, the four standards that are in force in this article are not effectively invalidated, and the fifth rule is introduced, which is contrary to these four rules regarding the closing and opening of an accounting account, which is illogical. As far as criminal responsibility is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be no doubt here that the actions involved in the regime of accountancy or the timely issuance of deposits are civil-law relations. This does not extend to criminal relations, as reported by an expert committee. Please tell me what to do with criminal responsibility if the bank has a temporary administration and a legal deposit. Well, deposits freeze for a certain period of time. Who should be attracted from 3 to 5 years for such actions? Next. Please tell me, who will be presented from 3 to 5 years of age when the deposit is received by some experts in the bank, other professionals serve, others pay? Tell me, please, some issue, others accept – it's a banking institution – to whom to present. Who's the specific person you need from 3 to 5? I think it's also a bad proposal for criminal liability for other infringements of client property rights. For example, one bracelet was left, and it was not released on time. Is that also a criminal responsibility from 3 to 5? I think it's completely absurd, so let's say we reject this bill three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u121	Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. I support Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich, who has informed us today of the committee's decision, he really needs to be sent to work. And taking this opportunity, Adam Ivanovich, I'd like you to pay particular attention here today, the head of the Plain District Council of Machuk, something is going on here in the hall, not going to work in the area. So he needs to be given an observation as to why he's not going there. And to conclude, Adam Ivanovich. We should probably go under the Rules to the “Various”. It's been 13 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u123	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting for the adoption on the basis of Bill No. 3482, namely the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the property rights of citizens and the protection of investments. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:36]] For-72 Rereading the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:55]] For 271 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, today we should consider a matter on which they are extremely insistent, all in one voice shouting, accusing everyone they could and could not. But here's a letter from the head of the profile committee, Andrew Shevchenk, asking: “In view of the need to reconcile positions and carry out further consultations with representatives of the MPs in the Ukrainian Parliament on the bill, please move it to the next plenary week.” [[This is Bill 2763: on the draft Law on Access to Public Information]] But here, support -- don't support -- we don't have time anymore. Please sign up for “Victane”. We have two more questions for the co-conspirators. They didn't want to move it to the first. Yes, please show me the list. We have an hour. Please, Little Andrew. Prepare Bogdan. He's handing it over to Lili Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u124	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Honourable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, Honorable Fellow Members of the National Parliament! Let me publish the statement of the Presidium of the Political Council of the Party “Our Ukraine”. “The elections to the local self-government bodies held on October 31st of this year have shown a significant departure from democratic standards and the rules of the electoral process. The government pushed through a non-democratic law that allowed it to take full control of the electoral commission and to minimize the possibility of accusing their illegal decisions. We note the absence of a proper electoral organization caused by planned and systematic violations of the basic principles of democratic elections, which undermines the authority of the people's will. Illegal production of a large number of extra ballots, removals from registered candidates' ballots, unjustified cancellation of registration of candidates, and problems with the open. The discovery of areas, the outright falsifications in the list of voters that cannot be accused, is, in our view, an abuse of power, its disrespect for citizens. Even in these circumstances, however, the local elections were marked by the will of people who do not want to be reconciled with the power vested in them. Despite opposition from the authorities, “Our Ukraine” won representation in local self - government. We appreciate every result achieved. We thank the voters who voted in favour of “Our Ukraine” as well as other national democratic forces. We thank all the local, party centers, party members, our activists and consistent supporters who have begun the complex process of returning to the faith of our citizens. We urge ideologically close political forces to join forces and to form a national and democratic majority in local councils as the first step. In the local government, “Our Ukraine” will work for the interests of the territorial communities. Here is the main and defining orientation of our work in places. We will be determined to resist all anti - Ukrainian and anti - Ukrainian actions. We confirm the unchangeable position of our Ukraine on the inability to create any coalitions with the Party of Regions and its satellites. We call on other national democratic forces to publicly reaffirm this position. Convinced that the ideologically close national and democratic forces must gather around specific issues and thus unite into a single political power that will not only protect Ukraine and our citizens but will open a new and quality perspective for the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u125	Yes, please, there is no Bogdan. Gnutkevich Yuri, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Ola Bodnar, please. Prepare the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u126	Olga Bodnar, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko – Party of the Fatherland. ” Statement by the faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Today, the Party of Regions is organizing its final phase of its grand scheme – the capture and usurpation of power at all levels. The elections to the local authorities on October 31st strongly demonstrated that the party of regions, regardless of the mood, is seriously losing voter confidence, since for the first time in the history of our country, the smallest number of voters came to the polling stations on October 31st, and a much larger half of the voters did not believe the ruling party and ignored the local elections. What the Party of Regions is trying to demonstrate as its victory today is actually the beginning of its collapse and the complete loss of the confidence of the Ukrainian people. Total practices of intimidation, persecution, pressure on the Fatherland representatives and other opposition forces, physical killings, unprecedented use of administrative resources have failed to give the region the necessary results. So today, the Party of Regions is working out open-minded methods of taking power on the ground. In those regions of Ukraine where voters did not support the ruling party, there is unprecedented pressure on the electoral commission and the necessary results are drawn, as is the case in the city of Kharkiv, Lugansk, Crimea, Ravensk. Here are just some examples. In the Winnitsky region of the Stryzatska District Electoral Commission submitted reports on the results of the elections indicating 85 votes in favour of the Party of the Regions. After the night, a new protocol is in place, stating that 385 voters have voted in favour of the candidate. In the region of Cherkas region of Smilyan, yesterday, according to a protocol submitted to the TVC in one of the constituencies of the elections to the Cherkas Oblast, the representative of the “Fatherskin” Party won a 300-vote victory. This morning, members of the TVC, after removing observers and representatives of our party, decided to win another candidate. There is also another trend. Where votes are stolen from our political power, electoral commissions resort to all kinds of craftsmanship to achieve a three - percent result in the party of power. In local councils where the Party of Regions cannot create its own majority and place its vassals in the chairs of their heads, they set up open terror against elected deputies from the Party of the Fatherland. Inni Grobey and her children are thus threatened with the life of the head of Nizhinsky’s district organization, Motherland, because of the lawsuits filed in connection with large - scale forgeries during the elections. In the same area of the candidate who won the Majority District of the Motherland, the Scripci insisted that they give up the victory, withdraw their candidacy. When she refused, on the night of November 2 to 3, her building was set on fire. On November 5, the newly elected MPs of the Smilan District Council from the “Batychshina” party Vasil Lattenka and Vladimir Groshev, the militia officers illegally detained and brought them to the Cerkas District Guard, explaining this by some complaint, without even giving its meaning. The Yulia Timoshenko faction calls for an immediate halt.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u127	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u128	and the cynical and lawless takeover of power in places. We warn the Party of Regions, your behavior and such policies will have the same consequences as those who have already tried to bring the Ukrainian people to their knees. We also refer to the faction of the Company and the faction of the Lithuanian Block. Your position of support for the Regional Party will end with you going into oblivion. The voters who supported you in this election will not forgive you for being passive, obedient, and fearful. The ruling party cynically and boldly steals the victory from the Company for the city’s Lugansk presidency. And you're afraid to even talk about it, let alone protect the voices of those citizens who supported you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u129	Please do not violate the Rules. I mean, because there's a lot of people who want to talk. Shevchuk Sergei, please. According to Shevchuk, Moses passes it to Yushchenka. Next. Peter Andryovich, you're next. No, you're next. It's Shevchuk. I'm the one who announced you were next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u130	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Honourable Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian media, have provided interesting information that the President’s Secretariat is preparing a program to modernize the health sector. That's very good. Each president, both ours and another state, applies to health care. But perhaps in the President's Secretariat, they don't know the real data on the financing of the sector this year by the government of Mikli Azarov. I would like to bring to the attention of citizens, including the staff of the President’s Secretariat, what is the status of funding the basic health care program this year. In the ten months of this year, the TB program is funded by only 54.5 percent. A centralized program of prevention and treatment for AIDS is actually 15 percent of what is planned this year. A very painful question, of course, is the question of oncology. Regrettably, in ten months of funding, the program is limited to 41 percent and the number of broadcasts, media coverage of child oncology, and poor children who suffer from incurable illness. Thus, in 10 months of this year, the government of Azarov funded a 27 - percent program of child oncology. Blood donation is funded by only a third. Everyone is talking about a demographic crisis, and it would be interesting to see how the National Programme on Reproductive Health and Measures to Promote Birthhood is financed? Thus, reproductive health is funded by only a third of the budget code’s stated need by two months up to the end of the year. And there is no funding for encouraging birth. You'll probably ask, are there positions that are 100 percent funded? Yes. It's an immuno-prevention program. As you know, there are two programs: the vaccine purchase program and the kill program for unnecessary vaccines. And both of these programs are being implemented by a hundred percent this year. The fact that the population doesn't want their children being vaccinated with the drugs they don't understand is one thing. And they're being bought and destroyed by 100 percent. Similarly, a 100 - percent program of treatment for Ukrainian citizens abroad is likely to take place. That's what the money's for. For Ukrainian experts, no funds are available to raise the salary of a Ukrainian doctor. Today, it is not right for those who say that the Ukrainian doctor’s salary is the lowest in Eastern Central Europe. No, it's not. It is even lower in Transnistria. We welcome the government of Azarov with the achievement that is not the last place in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u131	Thank you. I'm sorry, I made a mistake. I missed Teeth. Teeth, next Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u132	Valentin Zubov, National Labour Union of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, we will all begin to consider the basic financial document for our country, the State budget for Ukraine for 2011. Again, I think, as always, we will not have enough resources for teachers, for retirees, for health workers and for many other acute social problems. The question is, why is this happening? Why is there no such thing? If this question is briefly answered, it must be said that this is due to the fact that the economy of Ukraine has not improved or reformed throughout the 20 years of independence. And what's most surprising is that there was one tested, cynical, sudden, yet very effective scheme. A group of businessmen find a factory that is interested in working successfully, going there like investors, creating artificial debts, leading the business to artificial bankruptcy and privatizing the business for kopecks. Yesterday, from this rostrum, my former colleague, Mr. Senchenko, the Minister of the Shadow Cabinet of Ministers, spoke with tears about how concerned he was about the state of the country. At the time, he forgot to say that he had privatized under the same scheme as the Feodosian Ship Repair Plant, a military enterprise that had lost 70 million to the country. The same scheme is used in Donetsk oblast, in the town of Slavjansk, where there is also an enterprise of the Slavyanský plant “Ukrnimetallurgmash”, not just a plant, but a research institute. There, the entrepreneurs also carried out an amazing scheme in the same way. I'll give you one example. Here they were, when they took over the debt of the “KrushImetallurgmash” property, they valued the administrative housing of the seven-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-seventh-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousand-square-thousand-square-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-ths. You can imagine! So the unique machines are sold at a price below the scrap metal. Well, it's just cenism. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, I would like this statement to be taken as a direct appeal to the Attorney-General to request the establishment of a special commission of inquiry by the Attorney-General to investigate the privatization of enterprises in the military industrial complex and to hold them accountable, including for severe criminal responsibility, those who have allowed themselves to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Jushchenko Peter and Karpuk will pass on to him. Six minutes. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u134	Peter Yushchenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots! Lately, we have had such a lengthy discussion in the community about the problems of speech, the problems of linguistic ambiguity. I'd like to make a little historical statement that I think should have a fundamental impact on. Understanding it should affect the interpretation of this problem. And for that we will move 500 years to Christ, a period known to the seven wise men of the great times, Anaharcissus the son of Gnoor and Elinka, our Scythian ancestor, who wrote 50 sensations. 50 sensations that Diogenes recommended to the Hellenic authorities to use in the administration of the state in the right sphere. Anaharsis had returned from Elada, where he had spoken it, and had been killed here because he had not been accepted for the purpose that he wanted to legislate the Hellenic laws in the steel of the Scythian laws and in the permanent Scythian language. I carry you to the time of Ascension and Pentecost when the last words of the Lord of his earthly life, when he was on earth, when he told his disciples that the undeserved kindness of God would come upon you, and you would become witnesses to me in Jerusalem, Samaria, Caesarea, and all the parts of the earth. And each one of them at Pentecost, when the fire came upon them, drew lots to go where to go. Andrey the First-born drew lots, which were briefly written “Sciphia” and learned this language in Zion’s Horn, as Mark learned the language, such as those spoken in Alexandria, others in Asia Minor, and so on. He comes in, historians think in the 1960s on these lands, he comes in and, let's move to the Temple of Andrew the Firstborn, this is the place he put the cross on. This temple will be considered by the fresco, which is 250 years old, where Andrew the First stands with the cross and turns, and he speaks to Ukrainian women, with those children, standing in sheetcloths. In what language does he speak to them? In Scythian. And when 300 years later, I apologize, 30 years later, the Pope's Roman Clement comes to the quarry, which today is the Monastery of St. Clement Inkerman, Hersones, where he was drowned in six years of his missionary life, but it's a great martyr, his, by the way, head of the feast has been limping in our Kiev caves for 1900 years. What language did he speak? In Scythian. And when one of the saints, three saints, Vasili, Gregory of the Gods, John of Gold, Archbishop of Constantinople arrived here in the second century, he noted in his foreword to the Gospel of Matthew and the Scythians and the sabbaticals that the Psalthir and the Gospel had translated into their own language and were philosophizing in that language. In the same language 400 years after that, with only one, when Cyril and Methodius arrived, they only gave these languages, Cyril, Kliment Philosopher, gave only 3-4 letters, by the way, from the Hebrew: “C”, “C”, “C”, “S” and “S”. In fact, they gave it as a whole, and they gave only the font. This is the millennium of 1,300 years, and I've brought you here when there was a so-called Cyrillic, which has since been called a mystical verb. And when we say that Ascold wrote "the chronicles," and Jaropolk wrote the chronicles, he wrote in these languages. and Vladimir the Great, who performed the fifth baptism. But the main thing is that he has introduced four reforms: financial, religious, military, and administrative. He established a school for prominent men, sending children and 12 sons to the northeast and east, where there was no writing. The princes come, the bishops come, the bishops carry, the princes receive, the bishops are killed. That's it. The apostle Kuksha, this is Nifont, who built it. Ten temples. This., which with Vladimir Jaroslavovich built Sofia, by the way, a profile monument to our great Jaroslav Wise, stands on the same Rublovka of today’s Russian. This is a testimony, a recognition of the merit of action. So there they formed a church, it goes polyphonic, there goes faith, there goes the word “evolution of the church”, and you understand, and words. And our church today, as we take, you think, we have Andrew the Firstborn, the apostle, like in 1621. At the Archdiocese Council. The letter was from this council. Andrew the First, Archbishop of Constantinople, Patriarch of the Universe, the apostle of the Ukrainian -- this is what he wrote. He's a saint. His feet stood on these mountains, and the eyes of Ukraine saw, and his mouth spoke. And the mouth spoke what Andrew said to the people, saying that the grace of God would come upon these mountains.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u136	Christian world will carry faith and civilization from Carpathian to Alaska. It's, you know, I passed it on. I haven't expressed any of my sensations, either written to the world's recognized authority by Herodotus, or by holy men. That's not an explanation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u137	Please, Olyan Vladimir. Get ready for Vyziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u138	Dear voters! Ukraine’s elections to local authorities end in an atmosphere of democratic, transparent, and honest. And when national MPs spoke before that and talked about something else, they would probably need to give some examples to support my conclusions. For example, in traditional regions where the support of the High Regional Party in Zaporozhye was won by a representative of BUTU as a city head. In Kremenchuz, a representative of BUTU won, but also a candidate from the Party of One Region, in one city, was welcomed in another, showing a high level of political culture and further testifying that democratic elections had taken place in Ukraine. International observers confirm this fact, our analysts confirm. High ratings and high confidence in the Regional Party as a whole across Ukraine are, of course, the kind of credit that we have to convert, convert through economic changes and return people with high pensions and wages, and we will do so. Were there any violations? Of course, we traditionally have them because we need to improve electoral legislation, and probably not change it every time before the elections, but move on to more fundamental things like the Electoral Code. It was sad to see when the appearance was somewhat low and only because the organization was not entirely proper. It could not be six, it could be ten booths, and it should probably be provided for in the law without limitation. The minimum number has to be, and then you have to keep looking at the number of voters, the number of ballots, and so on. And a lot of other things. But there were also threats against the electorate. You remember the political opposition force of BUT kept talking about, they're about to raise the retirement age. And today I am pleased that we have finally heard the principle of the government's position on this issue. Mikola Janović Azarov said that we would approach this issue in case of an increase in life expectancy in Ukraine. And on another condition, we will certainly consult with the community. But remember who gave birth to these legal consequences. Of course, the previous government, which made a thoughtless commitment to the International Monetary Fund to increase the retirement age. The tax code, it's not simple, voters talk about it. And we will certainly find that compromise to make the middle and small business feel normal in Ukraine. And an integral part of the fight against corruption is, of course, the Attorney General's Office. And the appointment yesterday by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Viktor Pavlovich, is also a positive signal. And to the end. The President of Ukraine has addressed all the participants – let us complete the electoral process, unite independently of political views, form the authorities on the ground and take over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Viennese, please. He's got Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u140	Vladimir Vizewski, “Our Ukraine”. The authorities’ intention to adopt the dragon’s Tax Code gave rise to the active part of entrepreneurs, brought them together, and led them to mass performances that forced the authorities to withdraw temporarily, to postpone the adoption of the law. However, it should be understood that the problem is not only in the Tax Code, which certainly needs to be addressed, but also in the heads of the authorities. If they have developed such a law, it means that that's the way they see business sauces. Today’s corrupt system, when the source of wealth is, not labor, but closeness to power, does not require small and medium - size business. They better get rid of millions of free people, instead of supporting a big business that can be put on their knees in a very fast time. Today’s authority, which seeks totalitarian control in all spheres, does not need independent people — that is, small businesses that earn themselves. It seeks to destroy civil society, the foundation of which is the middle class in all countries. It's comfortable when the entire population is on a short rope of financial independence. In the pre-election promises, the authorities promised tax breaks for small and medium - size businesses. In reality instead of vacations, instead of vacations, small and medium-sized businesses were given increased costs at the same time as limited opportunities to develop their business. “Our Ukraine” opposes the tax code, which is actually aimed at destroying small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. And in particular, according to the draft Tax Code, the simplified tax rate increases several times. And the marginally permissible amount of revenue for a simplified system of taxation is reduced for natural persons, entrepreneurs from 500,000 dollars to 300,000 dollars. “Our Ukraine” proposes to increase the amount of marginal income for individuals to 1 million, as well as to leave the possibility for legal persons to stay on a simplified system of taxation. The other one. “Our Ukraine” opposes a reduction in the number of employees for entrepreneurs who work and a simplified system of taxation. Today's project is from 10 to 2. We suggest we leave the old rule. Third. “Our Ukraine” considers it necessary to review the list of types of entrepreneurial activity that excludes from the list of activities that can be carried out under a simplified taxation system. Because some of them are disfellowshipped for no good reason. “Our Ukraine” calls for the rejection of the cavalry's attack on the country's most important financial instrument and the vote for it, and to vote for it only after all the problems identified have been corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u141	Please, Volinec. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u142	Respectable citizens! Yesterday we saw at the Supreme Council, a huge crowd of people came to care for the Supreme Council. And they expressed their dissatisfaction, however, because of the authorities ’ desire to make matters worse not only for small businesses but for all employees. Yesterday there was also such a fight, a riot in the premises of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Why did this happen? This happened because yesterday a meeting of the joint representative body of trade unions took place. And it's scheduled for Monday that the unions have to sign a new general agreement that will be in effect for more than two years. And this general agreement provides for a substantial decline in the position of the people employed. That's another reason when people just get up. And what is provided for in this general covenant? Remove the 1.2 correction of the minimum wage, i.e. the wages of employees will be substantially reduced. The other one. The minimum wage is intended only for the least protected population, that is, the wages for those with 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 discharges will not increase. That's the worst thing you could do, because there's a network of tariff rates and government salaries breaking down. This agreement provides for the freezing of wages for the budget. It's not just for millions of workers: teachers, doctors, librarians and so on, it's also meant to freeze the wages of all other workers, because it's going to happen automatically. And I want to draw attention to the following, that the prices for gas for the population have just recently been raised. The Fatherland Party, the Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Ukraine, which I am leading, and the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, which is headed by Vasil Hara, have filed a simultaneous application to the court. That the government here has violated the laws of law and the general agreement. At the same time, when the time came for the trial, the Federation of Trades withdrew its application without any reason, and after that day the statement by the Party of the Fatherland, the Confederation of Free Trades is not being considered in court, and the population is paying a higher price for gas. And we see that the authorities after the election are going to raise that price again. And the next. The most disgraceful thing, where, really, in the very near future, people will just realize what power is doing against them, and, in fact, they will be meeting at Parliament as it was yesterday, and all of them together, is trying to adopt the Labour Code, which is designed to increase the working day for a worker from 8 to 12 hours, to increase the working week from 40 to 48 hours. It is suggested that if the employee is on a regular basis waiting for work, he may be able to increase the workweek by more than 48 hours. It is also envisaged that the employer will be given the right to determine, in a unilateral manner, what damage the worker or the owner is doing. Article 28 of the project is provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u143	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Chechatov. It's a shame, but a lot of people want to come out, and they're not gonna come out, and they're gonna sign up. Chechetov has 3 minutes, plus Pnotnik's 3 minutes, 6 minutes. Prepare Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u144	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters! Local elections were held, and this is an essential fact. The main task, based on the free will of Ukrainian citizens, was to establish legitimate authority on the ground. In taking stock of the elections, we must thank the voters who have come to the polls and voted in favour of the formation of new local authorities. Special thanks are expressed to those voters who supported the candidates from the Party of the Regions. It is thanks to you that we have received more than 36 per cent on the party lists, three times ahead of the next competitor. Tens of thousands of members of the electoral commissions, who have endured at this difficult time and have provided for the conduct of the elections under the law, should also be noted separately. The democratic framework of the campaign was two main factors: first, the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Local Elections Act, which established uniform transparent rules for all participants in the electoral process, secondly, the rigid position of the President of Ukraine and the executive branch in the centre and on the ground to prevent falsification. The authorities have created all conditions for the proper conduct of the elections. In time, funding was allocated, the rule of law was strengthened, and conditions for observers were created. It is already quite clear that there is no legal basis for questioning the results of local elections. The campaign was recognized by democratically unattractive foreign Ukrainian observers. As for the individual violations committed, they did not distort the general picture of the will of the electorate. Despite the undisclosed wishes of some of our opponents, attempts to disrupt the elections failed. Allegations of alleged violations and falsifications were tried by the opposition to justify its defeat. But the opponents will have to calm down and acknowledge our victory as a fact of popular will. We believe that, as a result of the elections, the authorities have confirmed its mandate in the presidential elections to implement reforms in the country. As a result of the electoral campaign, power and Ukraine's largest party, the Party of the Regions has the highest score of popular confidence, as a result of the decisive steps we have taken to establish order in the country. Indeed, the situation in the State has indeed stabilized. Up to 5 per cent of national and foreign professionals have improved their 2010 growth forecast for the Ukrainian economy. Already in 2011, effective government work will enable us to reach the pre-crisis level of GDP. It is logical that the sympathy of the electorate is given to effective government managers on 31 October, not to our predecessors, who during their five years in power destroyed the management vertical and disrupted the country. That's why we were sure of our victory. Deputies! The election has been completed. The country could return to the task of structural modernization. That is what the Party of the Regions needs, the responsible authority, not as an end in itself, but as a means to the fullest possible fulfilment of the electoral promises and the implementation of the presidential programme of systemic reforms. The local elections concluded an excessively prolonged period of permanent electoral campaigns in Ukraine. We have received a 2-year interim period to the next parliamentary elections for the successful modernization of the country. During this period, our task as people's deputies is legislative support for the systematic social, economic and political reforms initiated by President Viktor Yanuković. The laws that the country is awaiting will only be able to consider if Parliament is properly working, and we are prepared to give the opposition a chance to stop being politicians and become statesmen. This means forgetting the election and starting to think about the country's prospects. Among the priority decisions of the Supreme Council should be the continuation of administrative and judicial reforms. The most important step that hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs expect of us will be simplified. conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. To that end, we will continue to reform the authorization system. The effective fight against corruption remains of particular importance. Parliament needs to consider a package of laws that put in place a qualitatively new mechanism to counter this dangerous phenomenon. The relevant bills have been finalized in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe experts and are under consideration in the National Anti-Corruption Committee. One of Parliament's most important political tasks is to consolidate the democratic level of electoral procedures. To that end, it was necessary to adopt an electoral code that would systematize and harmonize the rules for all elections without exception. Respected colleagues, the aim of the reforms that have begun in Ukraine, is to modernize the country and improve the well-being of every citizen. Those noble tasks could and should unite Ukraine's constituency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u145	I invite Vasil Kravchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u146	Vasil Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Batakščina”. In the spring, the government of Azarov was still predicting a 50 million - ton crop, then it was already down to 40 million tons. So now it's whether or not it's real, without an overcrowding of grain in the country, at least 28 million tons. Otherwise, the government would not have introduced such a hasty quota for grain exports. The law defines an uninterrupted supply of food grain in terms of 1 million 200,000 tons. And for the government of Julia Tymoshenko, that was always the stock. According to the government of Tymoshenko, the task of forming the national food reserve was completed in full, namely, it was purchased in 2009 at fixed prices of 1 million tons of grain and 286,000 tons under forward contracts. In the heavy, crisis of 2009, the Agrarian Fund carried out 10,000 tons of diesel fuel to farmers, 428 tons of wheat and 69,000 tons of grain. Can any of these lists be praised by the current leaders of the Agrarian Foundation? Of course not. The inaction of the government of Azarov in 2010 was felt by peasants more than ever. The chairman of the agrarian committee, Mr. Kaletnik, even confirmed this in his statement from this rostrum. I quote: “Unfortunately, the formation of a state intervention fund is slow. The Agrarian Fund has only agreed to purchase 366,000 tons, especially for today's year-end, such important programmes as fiscal subsidies and state support for plant production, partial compensation for the cost of complex agricultural production techniques, as well as the purchase of tribal and cows and domestic technology and equipment for the agricultural complex, with the subsequent implementation of agricultural enterprises. No bracelet has been funded so far from the state support of agricultural cooperatives. So the financing situation requires immediate influence from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, today's leaders of the Agrarian Foundation have sold the entire untapped supply of food grain to the farmers of a million tons, knowing that the winter has brought seven billion losses to the peasants. At that time, he sold an agrarian fund that was intolerable from the floods of Western Ukraine, or Chernivecki district, where Papiev requested 26,000 tons of grain from the agrarian fund, and 90 percent from commercial firms. At what price? The cost of each ton is 397 dollars. There is no exception to the formula: the state of damage, the navar in the pocket. And it's scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u148	To date, four million tons are scheduled to fall asleep, not even 10 percent. So I have a great fear that not only will gas and utilities come to Ukrainian homes, but two or three times as expensive bread and, eventually, all the food. Because today’s power has completely forgotten in Ukraine is a branch such as agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u149	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists in Ukraine He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u150	Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian veteran organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, venerable veterans, distinguished voters, the sum totals of the local elections continue to remain in Ukraine with news number 1. But based on the people's wisdom that life continues and after the elections, whatever they end up with, I want to raise one extremely painful and extremely acute social problem, namely, how Ukraine feels about veteranism and the most well-deserved and seemingly most respected part of our society, which is a third of the Ukrainian community, this important part of the population, the work, the mosaics, then, whose blood is created, captured and protected all that is in Ukraine. Because it is known that the level of civilization of any state is determined by how children and veterans feel. So in answer to this rhetorical question, I want to say that veterans feel bad. With this “bad ” huge number of veteran problems. Today, I will stop at just one of them. In Ukraine, legislation in force in the area of the social protection of veterans is being carried out with great pronunciation. This refers to the one-time payout for Victory Day, which, although twice as much as the previous year, was only 15 percent of the amount provided for by the law. This also applies to the amount of the basic pension for the status of the “Child of War”, which is actually 6.5 per cent today instead of 30 per cent. This list can be continued. All of this forces citizens to appeal to judicial authorities. In the courts today, over two million references to these issues alone, and the mistrust of our citizens in the courts are all earthly and heavenly punishments taken together. Some veterans claim that they did not feel this kind of guilt and contempt even during the years of the Great Homeland War. In fact, why should a veteran receive what is prescribed by law through a court of law? It can't go on like this. Taking advantage of the 2011 Ukrainian State Budget project being formed in the government, I ask, if you want, for the sake of veteranism, that it should provide for 100% funding for all veteran problems, starting with the costs for the execution of court decisions, continuing with the level of compensation provided for in the current legislation for the relevant status, and ending a decent, civilized pension and other social benefits. The time has come not to make promises but to fulfill promises. Please consider this a request to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u151	Please provide the appropriate parliamentary request that the speaker spoke about. George Carmazin is now invited to the floor. It will be followed by Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u152	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear national deputies, our citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw attention to a few aspects. First, there has been talk of how court decisions are being carried out. Unfortunately, I can't go to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for more than six months. And he informed the Supreme Council and the government. And I don't want to talk or have tea with Mikola Janovich Azarov. I'm going to demand that the decisions of the courts for the benefit of 1 million and 28,000 so-called children of war, i.e. the people who fall under this law, who have court decisions totaling one and a half billion dollars, are executed. So that the money for this is found. There's a price on it! That is why I ask that you consider this as a question of parliament to Prime Minister Azarov and to the Attorney-General, who should be obliged to do so because of a criminal offence, including the administration of the government for the mass failure to execute judicial decisions. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that for society then, the thunder in the clear sky, the way the Tax Code was adopted, is exactly the same thing as the new draft Ukrainian Labour Code, which does not meet the requirements of international instruments. In particular, it's about removing independent unions from social dialogue, denying them the right to sign collective agreements and agreements. It's also the division of trade unions into representative and not representative. That's different. In particular, article 143 of the draft Labour Code allows for the establishment of virtually unlimited working hours and weeks. It is possible to increase the working week from 40 to 48 hours. I'd like the citizens to know about these things that are being prepared by the authorities. I would also like to draw your attention to the terrible things that are happening in us from the destruction of our oil and gas fields and Naftogazgeology. Poltavnaftegazgeology, which led search and exploration in the territory of Poltava, Kharkiv, Sumsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Lugansk and Donetsk regions. One hundred and fifty-six genealogies opened. And everything is now being done to make this enterprise bankrupt, so that former workers and workers will pay their wages in a timely manner, everything is being done to ensure that the property is transferred, alienated from private structures, largely created by the property of the state-owned enterprise Poltavnaftegasgeology. I ask and consider this to be my request to Prime Minister Azarov and the Attorney General of Pshonka to stop the process that is taking place. I'm also paying attention to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u153	Yuri Anatoliyovich, very briefly, because the public pressures me to follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u154	I also call your attention to the illegality of taking possession of the National University of Law of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in the city of Ravenna on the street of Kralenka, 5, which is on the balance of this university and is now being blocked by the Plain District Council. I would also like to present this with a request to the government and to the Attorney General to unlock the possibility of teaching children in this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u155	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please prepare appropriate parliamentary questions that the MP has been talking about. I would like to invite Eugene Kralkov, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by the National Deputy of Hrapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u156	Respectable voters! We respect the people's deputies! My statement is about highlighting the position of the Company of Ukraine on the moral condition of our society. It is known that the Communists have co-sponsored a new important legislative initiative of the Law on the Protection of Public Morality. But I want to focus here on a concrete example of impunity in our country when liberals continue to corrupt our society through our children. The National Commission for the Protection of Public Morals recognized a series of South Park cartoons published on 25 May 2010 on the MTV-Jukrein channel, which included child pornography and the promotion of religious hatred. At that time, the Nazi Commission disturbed the episode, and we drew attention to it as a matter of same-sex relations. And one of the characters of this cartoon is playing his classmate by imitating oral sex. I remind you that this series of moral commissions wanted to recognize child pornography as early as August, but it took time and struggle in power to do so. As the Chairman of NEK told us at the meeting, the film was viewed and recognized as pornography on behalf of the commission. As any product of pornography today, this is a violation of article 301 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. But that's what's happening. In turn, NEC received a letter from the Acting Director, MTV-Ukrein, stating that the series is broadcast to the adult audience and that the channel respects the concerns of the Nazi Commission and these episodes. But what they did was they only agreed to cooperate with the Nazi Commission and to postpone the screening of the film for a later period. The channel allegedly solved the breach and now there is no question of an assessment of the incidents. We are of the faction, I think, from each of the people's deputies, we still demand that the General Prosecutor's Office consider the issue, through article 301 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which criminalizes the import, manufacture, sale and distribution of pornographic items. Thus, imports into Ukraine for the sale and distribution of images of other pornographic objects containing or manufacture of child pornography are punishable by imprisonment of between 5 and 10 years. And I hope to be supported by both the TVs and the people's deputies, and all the pedophiles that are so divorced today, I apologize, and others on pi, including in our room, that we should bet on that point. We've been raised for generations in beautiful cartoons, in beautiful fairy tales, so we're both strong, because the moral rod was strong, and there was no moral decay. And I'm sure we shouldn't even say in this room that children can't show such hatred and so much disgust on our television channels. Please consider my statement on behalf of the faction as a request to the Attorney-General and the Attorney-General's Office without delay to take action to criminalize those who corrupt the entire generation of the great country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u157	Please respond appropriately to these questions. I'd like to invite Sergey Chrapov, a faction of Communists. He'll be followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, in just two days, Ukraine will celebrate one of the most important holidays in its history on 7 November, the Day of the Great October Socialist Revolution. Today, many honest lies have to be heard about those days. As a result of 7 November, Ukraine has become a truly independent State, a State in which a person of work has been honored without unemployment and poverty. Where every citizen could proudly say “I am a citizen of the country of councils”. Today, Parliament is so afraid that young people know the true story that they have not been able to do so, and has not wanted to support the Communist initiative of granting a well-deserved state holiday on 7 November, and most deputies have been put on the road because of the achievements of the Great October. But now they serve as a bourgeois system, forgetting what Soviet power has done for them. So today, on 7 November, it is not just Revolution Day, it is a symbol of the struggle of workers for their rights in the current capitalist society, the fight for timely wages, for compliance with labour law, for the right to a normal life. Young people must understand that on 7 November, it is not a celebration of yesterday, it is our path to the future, to a future where there will be no exploitation of a human being, where every citizen must have the right to become a person, not a person seeking a piece of bread. The facts tell us most of all about the achievements of the Great October. With the victory of the revolution, we have eliminated illiteracy, unemployment and childlessness. We did the shortest industrialization, won the Great Homeland War, restored the destroyed economy in five years, and flew into space first in the world. It's all in the past, but we're looking at the future. It can be either as hopeless as most young people are now, or as promising as in China or Venezuela. Communists are the only truly left party in Ukraine. Only we offer the right alternative: not changing the names, but changing the system. I congratulate everyone on behalf of the Communist factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this great holiday, and I especially invite young people to come out with us to protest rallies throughout the country this Sunday. Our future is in our hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u159	I'd like to invite Oleg Laishka. This is Victor Taran-Terren, please. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko. Yesterday the Supreme Council was besieged by many thousands of citizens of the country, small businesses who had come from all over the country to express their protest against the Tax Code, which was introduced by the current government to the Supreme Council. People are so active, millions of people throughout the country in all parts of the country are so actively protesting against this Tax Code. In fact, in the event of his admission, millions of people, small businesses, will lose their jobs, their livelihoods, and their families. Regrettably, the current government once again fails to carry out economic reforms, solve the most important economic problems in the country, translates into small and medium-sized businesses, because the Tax Code, which was introduced to the Supreme Council, makes it the god of tax administration officials and gives maximum preference to the big business, precisely because of the destruction of small and medium-sized businesses. So I will take a firm stand against and not vote in favour of the adoption of the Tax Code to which I call upon all my colleagues in the Supreme Council, regardless of political orientation. Instead, I propose to the government my proposals to solve budgetary problems in order to solve them, not by the millions of small businesses who have created this business with their own hands and their own health, but in a very different way. The first thing I'm suggesting is that we cut down on the budget to keep the government apparatus going. Starting with the Prime Minister's skirmishes, which at least 10 cars ride with the Prime Minister when he goes to work or from work, ending with state sanatoriums, government houses where government officials live, civil servants' salaries, pensions. This year's budget provides 40 billion dollars to the State authorities, which is almost the deficit in the Pension Fund's budget. That is, if government authorities are halved as a minimum and the cost of maintaining it, then you are one of the ways to solve the problem. Next. All big businessmen and oligarchs register their business in offshore and don't pay taxes. I propose that the government immediately introduce to the Supreme Council laws on the denunciation of agreements with Cyprus, the Virgin Islands, and other exotic countries, so that billions of oligarchs are not stockpiling there as they are getting out of the country today. Next. I propose that the government review the pension system substantially, because today the difference between the minimum pension and the maximum pension is 172 times! A man who worked his whole life in a factory gets 800 dollars of pension, an official who spent his entire life working in a cozy office gets 20,000 dollars of pension. By the way, I suggest Mr. Azarov give up the pension he's receiving today, along with the Prime Minister's salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u161	Finish up, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u162	We also propose other reforms, real reforms, not the imitation of the reforms that the government is doing today. No, this tax code. No, the abuse of government over millions of citizens of the country. And we just need to change a government that is not able to carry out economic reforms, not at the expense of the citizens of the country, but at the expense of reforms. To share the rich with the poor, not the same as today, when the poor actually support the rich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u163	I'd like to invite Victor Taran to join us at the Timoshenko Yulia Block. And it will end the hour of the “Virgin” - Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u164	I'm impressed by just this greatness that exists in our society today. Well, look, good people who listen to us. A Communist spoke and said that let's get together for the protest. The challenger asks: Protestants against whom? Against the capitalists? But these capitalists today are communists in one band. So they're going to protest against themselves? Or, today, a bill by Bondick's MP from the Party of Regions has been considered. In principle, this bill made it impossible not to issue deposits. It's a normal bill, isn't it? They introduced it when Timoshenko was Prime Minister to protect people during the economic crisis, the financial crisis. The challenger asks: Did they vote for him today? No, it's not. The regions did not vote for him today. The Communist here today is saying that, on television, pornography is so different. Who owns television? Television belongs to Horoshkovsky and all the other oligarchs with whom the Communists are associated today. It's terrible, ours will be a society, there'll be no way out when we talk one way, but we'll think another, but we'll do the third. An example of this was the so - called parliamentary hearing, a parliamentary special session devoted to the convention on the signing 60 years ago of the Convention on Human Rights. And at this special session, the authorities listened to themselves. Why? Because even though our committee ordered the sitting day, no opposition was allowed at the meeting, no alternative thought was heard. The authorities heard themselves, they heard Janukovicz, the great defenders of democracy, they heard Azarov. Again, we're talking about human rights, and instead it turns into a circus, it turns into a kind of duality. And today the situation, because I still have a little time left, the situation in Ukraine with human rights, with respect for human rights in general is terrible, and that's why more and more Ukrainians are going to the European Court and the European Court is gratifying, gratifying the calls of the Ukrainians. And I'd like whoever's listening to me right now to think about it. For example, literally three days ago, the European Court granted a lawsuit to a Ukrainian woman who filed a suit with the European Court of Justice for not paying her pension at the proper time. The European Court obliged Ukraine not only to give her a pension but a thousand and five hundred euros. The European Court granted the claim of another Ukrainian, who was wrongly taxed here in Ukraine, and so forth. The other thing is that these funds are coming from the Ukrainian budget, and they should be coming from the pockets of those who are robbing people who are profiting on their mountain today. And of course, the pinnacle of falsification was elections that did not add image to Ukrainians around the world, against which the whole world is actually protesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u165	I invite Vladimir Moysik, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He's going to sum it up, or he's going to finish an hour of different.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u166	Vladimir Moisik, political party “For Ukraine”. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies, distinguished voters! I wanted to draw your attention to the illegal actions of the authorities regarding the Party “For Ukraine” in the 2010 elections. This was discussed by the representatives of other parties, and by the defenders of the country, and by others. In Ternopille, officials forced candidates from the “For Ukraine!” party to drop out of the election, threatening to quit their jobs. The head of the district education department, the first deputy head of the Barracks Rajdrajtwad, the Ternopil entrepreneur, who presented himself as an assistant to the national deputy from the Party of the Regions, held a “intersession” with government officials who were promoted by candidates from the Party “For Ukraine!” so that they would refuse to participate in the elections. Representatives of the Party “For Ukraine!” turned to the law enforcement authorities, demanding that officials who violate the rights of citizens be punished. A territorial commission in the Czernovetsk Region refused to provide a copy of the decision to register as a subject of the electoral process, which made it impossible for our party to participate in the formation of the electoral fund. Representatives of the Party “For Ukraine!” in Lvivský, Ternopilský, Volinský, Ivano-Frankovsky region reported the pressure on members of the Party “For Ukraine!” candidates for the MPs from our party, threatening their release from their jobs. In the Lviv region, Chief Doctor Olesia Lemishka was released for his intentions to fly from the Party “For Ukraine!” to the District Council. The worst cases occurred in Irpen when on the day of the vote a large group of people from the Berdian Zaporozhye region were found driving and voting in various locations. Thanks to the activities of observers from the Party “For Ukraine!” one such group was blocked at Section No. 4. This fact is documented, recorded on a video camera. At No. 23 at 21 p.m., an organized group, a respected electorate, broke into the area at 21 p.m. of 200 people who voted by half on the second night. At a time when no more than 300 people were voted in this area throughout the day. There were violations against our party and in Poltava, in Volin, in Dniprodijnski, our candidate who could actually become a city head. But I want to finish my speech, my fellow dignitaries, on the Colomia of the region of Ivano-Frankow, where I am the national deputy major. There the city’s head was defeated by Igor Slusar, who won more than 7.5 thousand votes. He lost a candidate of power who was organized by almost all opposition parties. And here they are today organizing lawsuits, right, losing them in Colomia, Johno-Franco.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u167	Finish it, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u168	Please. Thank you. . The Ivano-Frankov Administrative Court. Today, at the third hour of the day in the appeal, they want to reverse the outcome of the Cologne elections. Dear voters and honorable judges, if you can hear me! I want to assure you that our team that helped defeat Igor Sluzar has strictly followed every letter of electoral law. We did not break either before the elections or during or after the elections. And that's why I warn the judges of the Court of Appeal in Lviv, our team held an honest election. The election was made by the electorate. And I don't think the court in Lviv is supposed to decide the fate of the election in Colomia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-05-m0.u169	The hour for the "Variance" question is over. Dear colleagues, according to the calendar plan of the following week, national deputies work in committees and factions. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, November 16, at 10 a.m. And on November 15th, Monday, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
