ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:49]] Cards were registered in the 378 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies: Kya Sergija Viktorovich, as well as Toplova Viktor Semenović, who was 65 years old. I ask that we welcome our colleagues and wish them health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 14 to 17 December 2010. There were four plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 61 issues of the agenda were discussed, as a result of their consideration: 9 laws and 5 decrees were passed, 10 bills were adopted on the basis, one bill was returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, 22 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals: one law has been passed in a new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, one law has been passed to the committee, one law has been rejected. 83 parliamentary inquiries were announced. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 26 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please put your name on the information board. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, “BUT – Fatherhood” faction. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u2	Respectable compatriots! As then, a few days ago, today and today, it pains and pains those wild events of the Black Thursday of Ukrainian Democracy. Bartholomew’s roof night asked many questions. Why is there such a world - wide display of inhuman hatred and an insurmountable desire to beat and kill our colleagues in political trade? Where is the limit in the time and space of such unusually violent permissiveness? Why did the desire to show these events as another interdepartmental interlocutor, such as a homicidal innocent fight, not even a commercial pierre or a show with quick help from us and butimatically butaphoric wounds? It's a shame that some people feel that way because of the amazing incredible ease with which one wave of hands is now determined by the fate of both individuals and many thousands of ordinary citizens, sooner or later in full impunity. Recall how just a few weeks ago, tax reform was under way in this room. Without warning, I did not warn, I did not offer opposition, no one even tried to listen. As a result, hundreds of thousands of people on the streets throughout the country, violent protests. It is obvious that this is the same easy way, but a very difficult fate is expected in the Housing, Labour, and Pension Codex. The course of applying authoritarian mechanisms in Ukraine, bringing democracy to zero, deprived it of any parliamentary influence on the situation in the country and the real protection of people. The aggressive majority is completely out of the minority mind, completely ignoring the positions of the opposition and the millions of voters they represent today when adopting important national decisions. Under such conditions, the blocking of the Supreme Council has, in fact, turned into the only possibility that the opposition can draw the attention of the authorities to its demands and be heard at all. The brutal beating of members of the opposition by members of the party of power and ministers of the current government has finally humiliated the Supreme Council. The aggressive actions of the forces that prevailed against their opponents in parliament had taken place before, but what took place last Thursday was unprecedented because of its cruelty. A similar crime has been made possible by the complete impunity that the majority feel behind them. If the judicial system in Ukraine had serious shortcomings before, but it maintained a chance of justice, there is no judicial system at all. One-sided reform turned Femid into a slave to power. That is why we today demand: first, to bring to justice the responsibility of those involved in the execution, who directly beat people and especially those who did not participate in the beating for the first time. We must immediately invite the Office of the Attorney General to Parliament and hear about the course of the investigation of this resonant and disgraceful case for the country. The second is to release the government officials who took part in this massacre, ignoring this requirement, the executive vertical leadership will assume political responsibility for the events of last week. The third is to stop the political repression and use of force structures, to close criminal cases that are designed exclusively for the political persecution of Yulia Timoshenko and her representatives, and other opposition representatives. All political prisoners should be released immediately, whose only fault is that they returned property to the State, which in a questionable way was “accepted”. Remember, Timoshenko is accused of deliberately acting in the personal interest of part of the cost of selling allowances for greenhouse gas emissions, leading to the payment of pensions, saving millions of defenseless old people in the midst of a crisis. Today, we also demand the adoption of the Opposition Act as a whole, which provides for an effective mechanism of control. Without these requirements, the return of Parliament to normal work, to our deep conviction, is impossible. Consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u3	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! 2010 is coming to an end. The political and socio-economic situation remains very complex. Moreover, it only gets worse. There's holes in the government budget. According to the State Department, millions of our citizens have lower incomes even than the subsistence minimum. There are both objective and subjective reasons. On the one hand, Ukraine is still experiencing a severe economic crisis, on the other hand, many countries have rapidly developed and implemented stabilization programs. They've made an impact both in the economy and in the socio-political sphere. In our economy, the most powerful “improvement” has become the scandalous Tax Code. [[in quotes]] His draconian standards sparked a long-standing wave of public protest, with a protest of self - organized, unremunerated, and equivocal politics. The same story is repeated with the 2011 budget. In his first reading, he was accepted at the rate of flashes. Instead of a full and professional discussion of the country's main asset, there is yet another "buttons-show" to be expected, despite great doubts about the reality of the budgetary indicators. In today’s way, a government project can only make the economic situation worse. He should also warn against attempts to give the country the Labour and Housing Code as well as the so - called pension reform. They will strike even more at the people and may trigger even larger protests. In all civilized lands the authorities sought understanding with opposition to unifying efforts. We have never seen any deliberate and effective steps to stabilize the situation. There was no attempt at dialogue with a minority. Does anyone view this as an attempt, perhaps a demonstration of the beating of national MPs right in the session room? This situation is much deeper than a demonstration of force. It shows that the suppression of parliamentaryism is a continuation of monopolization in all spheres. Parliament is doing the same thing in society. We still do not see an objective investigation into the beating of our colleagues. Not only Ukraine, but the world is careful to see whether they will be punished, or whether they have already crossed the line that separates our nation from the civilized world. Regrettably, the Ukrainian authorities never listen, and they do not want to count with anyone, but they make a decision that they consider to be beneficial to themselves. Einstein also said, "The most ridiculous thing is to do the same and expect another result." As a result, we have received, firstly, a further deterioration in the international reputation as a result of abandonment from democratic norms and our own legislation; secondly, it is the cooling of the investment climate in Ukraine and the expectation of authority solely on external finance; thirdly, a total increase in social tension, an increase in the degree of social dissatisfaction in virtually all sectors of the population. Now the main theme is the scandal of beating our colleagues. And you don't have to try to switch your attention to others. Our faction requires immediate arrival at the Supreme Council of the Attorney-General for a report on the beating of the national MPs. At times, it was sufficient for the prosecutor’s office to draw the obvious conclusions that the whole country had made. In addition, the proposal for the Henprocurorate report was made on the Conciliation Council yesterday, but the authorities stubbornly pretend that something like a strange family quarrel took place. Whether or not it is going to take steps to investigate will depend on the further actions of our faction. The head of the Supreme Council stated that it was necessary to discuss the matter at another Conciliation Council. We are ready now, by the way, to take a break, to discuss this issue and to listen to the Attorney General immediately on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u5	Mikhailo Chechetov. Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! On 17 December, a plenary meeting was held at the 85th session of the Venice Commission, at which the conclusion of the constitutional situation in Ukraine was approved in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 30 September this year. Some media policies provide conflicting information on the findings of the Commission, including the holding of parliamentary elections in 2011. Since I directly participated in the meeting of the Venice Commission and made a statement on this issue, I would like to inform you, distinguished people's deputies, voters, of what has happened at the meeting of the Venice Commission and what has been the opinion of the Commission on the date of the parliamentary elections. The Commission said the following: and it is quite clear here that this issue is purely internal, and we must resolve it, in particular, in accordance with the Constitution, as underlined in its conclusion, in 1996 the term of office of Parliament is 4 years, which could mean the following: parliamentary elections to be held in 2011. On the other hand, there is a conclusion of the same commission that parliamentary elections to the Supreme Council should be held in September 2011 in accordance with the 2004 Constitution. 2012, Sorry, 2012. The Commission also considers that the legitimacy of the actions of previous and current authorities is, firstly, because powers are prescribed in the Basic Law and others are exercised. On the second question, because constitutional rules were in force during the elections, which had lost this. That's the one. Issues relating to terms of office, the conduct of the electoral mandate and the holding of elections are complex and mixed. Love them. Decisions should be based on concepts and compelling arguments that the people would take. There is also a need for an official interpretation of the constitutional rules regarding the date of the next parliamentary elections. The answer to this question can, clearly, be given by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Commission also acknowledged that no legislative changes had been made. The amendments to the laws were not used to enhance the competence of the authorities beyond the limits provided for in the Constitution in the year 96. Finally, I think it is the most important conclusion of the Venice Commission. It is that a comprehensive constitutional reform must take place in Ukraine. And this constitutional reform must be done with you in the near future. I would like to emphasize that there is some work already being done on this issue. Prior to the adoption of the opinion of the Venice Commission, the President of Ukraine had already established a Commission for the Strengthening of Democracy and the Rule of Law, which included prominent lawyers, including representatives of BUT, and included constitutional law specialists. As noted at the meeting of the Venice Commission, this is the Venice Commission only in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, all that has to do with constitutional reform, all that has to do with the future, I think this is our job with you. In conclusion, it has been noted that we need to adopt amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Act as soon as possible. We need to amend and adopt the new Code of Criminal Procedure as soon as possible, and this is reflected in the commission's conclusion. Which we did, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u8	Thank you. You know, three months ago, the President of Ukraine set up a working group of criminal law professionals, the criminal process where the criminal departments were involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u9	Finish up, please. Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Respectable citizens! In 10 days, it will go back to 2010. What did he become for Ukraine? Any evaluation by active politicians is of little value, because everyone has long realized that the content and tone of these assessments depend almost exclusively on where a particular politician is now and whether he is satisfied with his personal place of residence. Not just waiting for a deep analysis of the past year and from domestic journalism, with very few exceptions, because some, even talented ones, sucked into scandalism, reflection and political glamour, and some in their dilettarian nihilism, unfortunately, sometimes resemble Sharikov, who, after reading Engels and Kauccik, made a sacramental conclusion -- I disagree with both. We will not be naive about the possibilities of numerous political talk shows objectively and competently evaluate events and analyse social phenomena. And not only is it that in most of the increasingly normal people, they cause a reaction in the range of allergies to disgust, but also because they are skillfully provoked to violent arguments between participants in the background to form an image that guides as an all-knowing and all-knowing meter. Thus, the only possible objective and realistic assessment of the year that passes, events, processes, and changes that accompanied it will give and give time and only time. It is therefore a waste of time for the contemporaries of events to focus on the assessment of these events. By the way, it's also because, in a cross-atomical ideological sense and in principle, political activity in today's political teams of differences is not much. And the division has to go between two models or even two philosophies of political and all other life: one is destruction, and the other is creation. One wise person would say that there is no creation without destruction. But there's nothing to ruin. Anything you can and cannot do is already ruined: in morals, in economics, in human relationships. Someone has to stop and stop others. And don't look for the guilty. Because it is often the case that the searchers are guilty of many things themselves. Yes, it's harder to do. Creation in the first stages is often unappreciative. Change is better in a short period of time to make it difficult, and it is easy to make enemies. For good reason, American President Woodrow Wilson said, “If you want to make enemies, try to make a difference.” But if politicians and statesmen don't form an adequate time in the daytime, all of which will focus on creation rather than destruction, the agenda will form extremists and radicals, apherists and adventurers. Human history has such examples, and they are not alone. So, more than ever, the process of unifying politicians and non-politicals around the true national idea — ideas of economic, social, cultural creation, people who are able to materialize this idea, people who are able to find within their souls a reasonable balance between selfish and altruistic. And whether someone wants it or not, there will be more followers and adherents of the idea of creation every year in Ukraine. The People’s Party rejects and rejects destruction as a political and life credo. The People's Party professes the idea of creation and stretches out its hand to all who are capable of doing good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u11	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u12	Petr Cibenko, Ukrainian Company faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I think I am unlikely to be wrong if I assume that a key theme of the week in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, along with the budget, will be the subject of so-called pension reform. I say so-called because I, like my colleagues in the faction of the Company of Ukraine, believe that what is being prepared has nothing to do with real pension reform. The authorities are preparing to re-enter the detention facilities in order to address the problems of the State. This is very much in the spirit of post-Soviet Ukraine, to solve problems, including reform, not by the State, not by the oligarchs, not by the money bags, but by the work of the human being. We believe that the approach itself, the very logic of pseudo-reformers, is harmful. She's like that. The shortfall in the budget of the Pension Fund means that the budget needs to be balanced as a matter of urgency by entering the pockets of current and future pensioners. All right. What if there's a problem with the government budget tomorrow? Stop paying teachers, doctors, soldiers? This logic of reform is nowhere to be found. It is not clear to whom that the main thrust of pension reform is to make a radical improvement, a radical change in the situation in Ukraine's economy. I'm flattered when one of our pseudoformers declares, and let's, in Europe, set the retirement age of 63, 65, 67. I don't mind. Let's go, like in Europe. Just do it all the way in Europe. We have a life span, a quality of life, a salary, like in Africa, and this is a retirement age, just like in Europe. And for those who are concerned about this problem, I want to throw in another idea. Why, in fact, increase the retirement age only for women and some men, i.e. civil servants and soldiers? Let's increase the retirement age for all men. Today, the average life expectancy of men is 62 years, in my native Donbassa 59 years. Let's figure out 65, not step by step, but immediately 65 years. Can you imagine how much money we're saving? How much money can be bought for steamers, airplanes, helicopters, yachts, and so forth? No one doubts that the overall trend of the increase in retirement age, but that the retirement age is directly linked to life expectancy. And that's what we've got, oh, what a problem. These market reformers, however, are, as always, completely anti-market-based. Raising a retirement age is the simplest but far from the most human solution. And by the way, I want to say that once these decisions are made, they will no longer retire, and they will retire. And to those who accuse us of criticizing us, we offer nothing in return, I will answer that. Retirement age should be retained and, in return, an incentive system should be put in place for a person to retire at a later date would be more profitable economically, materially and financially. And then the man will make his own decision. I understand that this path is more difficult for the authorities, to convince them, to prove them, to consider them. And what the pseudo-reformators are offering, is to turn your hands and make a decision like this. I will not be surprised if there will soon appear in Ukraine agitators similar to those of the Great Homeland War, remember, “Have you signed up as a volunteer?” with only a few other words, “Do you support pension reform?” Some kind of mental assault on one of the MPs getting high under this prescribing, and the officials, in turn, are afraid for their chair. But our faction's position on this issue is absolutely firm and consistent. We believe that such a retirement pseudoreform is not only immoral but also criminal at the expense of the working people. All these discussions that raising the retirement age automatically guarantees cloudy pensions in the future are at least questionable. I therefore stress once again the fact that the faction of the Compartium of Ukraine clearly stands at the position of the non-increasing of retirement age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. With regard to the suggestions made in the presentations, they evidently were one thing that we must overcome all political looseness and rigidity and find what unites Parliament. Because if we're talking about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm on my way. Please, calm down. Dear colleagues, the fate of parliamentaryism, because the fate of democracy depends on you. Now, that's the kind of proposal that's been made. It's about bringing the guilty to justice. I sent a letter to the Attorney General's Office asking him to provide relevant information for both faction leaders and deputies to see, and then we decided on a format for dealing with the issue. I don't think there's any objection to telling the truth. Well, please, calm down. I understand your intelligence is going to sting, well, you don't have to. With regard to the second proposal for the release of government officials. I say let's do it this way. On Friday, we will consider the question of the formation of parliamentary powers. Dear colleagues, well, I'm offering a compromise decision because you realize it's not going to pass today. And on Friday, I say, let's put it first and take a look at it. Well, it won't work today. I mean, can we put this back on the table? Let's talk to the faction leaders. We'll make a decision today, we'll make it today. Well, respectable colleagues, come on. The end of political repression and the release of political prisoners. I would like to remind you once again, your honorary colleagues, when the question was discussed and the suggestion was to create a temporary commission of inquiry immediately on Thursday, it was agreed that 400 or more deputies would create this commission. That's what everyone's going to confirm. At the same time, representatives of the BUT faction were invited to identify the head of the commission as the person to whom they trusted. And you understand very well what that would be like. And this committee could deal with all of these issues that we're talking about today, not just today, but all of these days. At the same time, let us agree that this arrangement was completely ruined. Is that a fact? Fact. Here we go. So I think if there's a need, let's go back to creating a commission. Or if we define and decide on information from the Attorney General's Office, including these issues. Now for the approval of the Opposition Law. I would ask them to raise this law now and look at it, because it seems to me that this law was written under the 2004 Constitution, and obviously it needs serious correction right now. And let's agree on a position after a proper revision and make an acceptable decision. I think it's a normal offer that can be accepted without a scream. So, honourable colleagues, like everything else, were scheduled for today at 13 o'clock, we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council with the factions' leaders, and we will determine our tactics for action based on the proposals that have been made, including today. If this is accepted, we can follow such an algorithm, including information from the Attorney General's Office. At the same time, two factions are now being called upon to announce a 30 - minute recess for consultations. So please, whether it's a statement or we're taking a break. Let's figure it out. It could have been done in another way, in another way. Dear colleagues, if we were to go to the Conciliation Council now, the meeting continued. Is such an offer accepted? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no? A break is announced, but the break will take exactly 30 minutes. All right, everybody, gather around. In 11 hours, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Please come into the session room and take your seats so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues! So it's suggested that we continue our work now. Two factions took a break. The two factions will express their position by one and a half minutes on what they called for a break. Next. Then one minute, the other factions will express their views, and then I'll inform you, your honourable colleagues, I'll inform you about the proposals that have been discussed and what are the options for our next action. We will continue our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. And there's a 12-hour offer not to announce a break because we spent an hour negotiating. No objections? Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u15	Honorable Presidium, distinguished TV and radio audiences, honourable deputies! I'm authorized by the Yulia Timoshenko faction to report that, of course, we understand, all of us, there may be nuances, any problems may be in the Supreme Council, but when the Supreme Council, as it happened, there was actually an attempt at parliamentaryism. There has been an attempt at parliamentaryism, and it is well understood by those who have done so. And you actually did it. Not to mutilate or, defending God, murder MPs, but you did it to kill parliamentaryism, you took an interest in him. And you are the weapon for the leader of the opposition, for the leader of the largest opposition party, and in general one of the largest political parties in Ukraine of four, to the extent of the precautionary action, signing up for non-refoulement is also an attempt at democracy. And you're doing it, you're doing it to destroy and destroy democracy in Ukraine. Only that is the only reason. You do not want or seek justice. You may be seeking revenge, one of you; one of you is trying to serve your own interests. But you're swinging at democracy. And I think you're aware of that. Most of you. A minority is not conscious. So maybe this minority among you is the most aggressive. Because you want to punish, you don't even want to judge, you don't want to listen, and you don't want to hear. Because you're acting in the harshest and most primitive scenario. You're here, so we're chairs. You want to protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u16	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Matvienko, please. One and a half minutes. You spoke for forty-five minutes. Please. We need to find consensus, not conflict. We're talking about conflict again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! The position of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". We have to stop in emotional opposition and still come to some sober decision. We have to assume that the most dynamic development in Ukraine today is, not a process of positive change, but a negative trend as a result of a pattern of unscrupulousness. The result is poverty and corruption. The authorities that put the situation in these circumstances can be said to be irresponsible, but if, in other words, simply criminal. What happened in the Supreme Council of 16 numbers tells us that we became one of the institutions of power that excites this element. We're going to give this an estimate. We can't keep moving, otherwise, I say again, this House will be gone, the elements will wipe out all of us and all of us who think they've come for a long time and are asserting today's very effective authority. The Supreme Council is the only one who can protect democracy because it is represented by all the electorates as no other institution of power. And the Supreme Council is the only institution to protect every citizen. Our request. If this is a 16-number case, there will be no evaluation principle if we don't listen, and we have to start with the information of the Attorney General, who has to tell us clearly how we, and how we, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office, can stop this element. Otherwise, we have no opportunity to participate in the work of the Supreme Council. Otherwise, we cannot be held accountable to our electorate. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that this issue be supported on our proposal, and we have heard as soon as possible the information of the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Alexander Ephraim. Then the Communist faction, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we have agreed on the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u20	Alexander Sergiyovich, one minute. Dear colleagues! The Conciliation Council decided that after an hour and a half from the break factions, they would express their assessment. [[B in m in s a l in]] One moment, please listen! You listen! The other one. After a minute, the factions will say how they react to the proposals they were making. Then I'm going to let you know what choice we're going to make, and then we're going to go out on a decision-making basis. And I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, to demonstrate the necessary restraint. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we are committed to constructive work and compromise solutions in this room. That's the first one. Second. I am surprised at the destruction of Parliamentarianism in our country of 16 numbers. As I recall, there have been conflicts since 1994, including in physical form between the deputies in this room, and there have been even more heated situations. Third. If we do not understand each other, I am deeply convinced that there will be no prosecutor, no BSP or chief of police between us. We're not in the kindergarten to invite parents to come and figure out what's going on here instead. That is why we support, despite everything else, your proposal — if you want to hear it, if not, we have gone — we support your proposal to have the Attorney-General present an analysis of all the events that have taken place in the hall since the closure of the shield and the Harkov events, and 16 numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u22	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u23	with the return of all that is. But once again, I say that our view is that we should sit at the negotiating table, find compromises and make decisions that would further help to ensure that there is no such thing in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, from the Communist faction, Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the faction of Communists, as always, a clear position. If we can be reconciled by the Attorney General's Office, let us invite the Attorney General here and listen to his information about all the events that have recently taken place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I'm more confident, dear colleagues, that we won't find an understanding yet unless we really sit at the negotiating table and hear each other. Because now we've been holding the Conciliation Council for almost an hour, and we haven't come to the common denominator. The events in the Supreme Council are coming upon us like a snowy avalanche. And why it's happening, it's good. We know very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u26	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u27	And let's be honest today, let's answer that question. It can't be the Supreme Council that's making some loud statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u29	Our position, our distinguished colleagues, is clear, and it was expressed in a statement by the faction this morning. We have three clear positions. First position. There's got to be a Attorney General on this stand and there's a lot of information about how it's not just a fight in the hall, and don't show it as a banal interdeputy between deputies, it was a beating. How these questions are examined. First. The other one. To stop the political repression, the political persecution of the opposition and, in particular, the leader of the opposition of Julia Timoshenko. That's the second question. And the third. In this room we need to adopt a law that will bring about a legal basis for the opposition’s work so that we will not be destroyed alone. These are our clear positions. We listened to everyone, we listened to what the Head of the Supreme Council said in general. The faction is now going to the congregations to determine how to proceed. And once again, our three clear positions are perfectly clear, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u30	Finish it, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u31	I'm just finishing up what I started. The three positions that we've said, they're absolutely right, they're totally the norm of a civilized state, of civilized parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u32	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u33	We don't have another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u34	Please don't leave the hall. I'll tell you what we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. You're not in a hurry yet. Please, from “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Is there a Martinenko? No one's speaking? Please, Oleg Zarubinski. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u35	Representatives of the People's Party went to Parliament to work. To work, not to shout, not to vote, or to engage in complacency. And we work in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, the status of the National MP, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Law on the Committees of the Supreme Council, and we take firm action against all kinds of morticians and everything else, and we do not take part in this. Although, as a spirit, I want to say that sometimes, looking at what is happening, someone would really like to come. But we're not going down to that. And so when it comes to hearing the Attorney General, giving him information, we will not be against it, but we want this information to be comprehensive, complex, and objective. For events that took place during the year to be dealt with from the point of view of law and possibly of the Criminal Code. Because we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u36	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u37	Because we work in the Supreme Council, because we're implementing the main mission of the national MP, and that's legislation, we wanted our colleagues to follow these perfectly normal and normal things, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now for what was discussed at the Conciliation Council. The proposal was to hear information from the Attorney General's Office about the evaluation by the Attorney-General of the events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[I'm stressing, not the report, but the information.]] We have found this formulation: the latest events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which have been characterized by sharp clashes, opposition, and forceful determination of relationships. I'm here to support, and I think we all support this thesis that if we have an arbitrator to speak to the Attorney General's Office, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not be like that. Because here we have this paradox, these honourable colleagues: the claims are presented mostly to the law enforcement authorities about (here I'll say what they were) "the cessation of political repression, the release of political prisoners and so on," and the higher legislative body of the country is blocked. Then, perhaps, if we follow logic, we need to block those institutions and ask them to consider the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to listen. I beg of you, dear fellows, I beg of you! I ask you to listen, I beg you to listen! And the question is, obviously, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to be preserved as a platform, like a rostrum, where every day, it's possible to speak out on a daily basis. Now for the suggestions. As far as suggestions are concerned. We agreed on it this way. What we need to find compromise, and this compromise could be that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is deciding to get the relevant information from the Attorney General's Office with the wording tomorrow, I said, on the evaluation of the latest developments in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but on the condition that. I said, in the last few days. Dear colleagues! But at the same time, we agreed that each faction would now hold consultations on how they would proceed. Because the proposal was that when we make a deal and make a decision, we publicly state that the Supreme Council of Ukraine works in a state-of-the-art regime. The deputies are present in the hall. And tomorrow, and tomorrow, dear colleagues, after hearing the information, there will be new realities, new reasons for making decisions. But under such conditions, which will show that we find compromise. When the factions express their point of view, we will put the matter to the vote. You know, if we don't compromise, then we're going to have this question, someone said the right thing, listen, maybe after the New Year. If it's good for someone. So I have such a big request for you: let's take a step towards each other and figure out that we need to set up a dialogue. But at the same time, each faction must make a decision. I suggest a normal, civilized way out. After consulting the factions, each faction claims its position. If we continue to work and declare it publicly, the question is put to the vote. I asked that this be the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If not, we will return to the matter tomorrow. I understand that no one is interested in this. And please, dear fellows, let's meet each other step by step, step by step, step by step. To make everyone think that we have found the right, acceptable solution. I don't think it's possible to offer another smart approach at this point. Please continue your consultations. When you're ready, you'll say. We're going to ask this question for consideration. No, we'll make decisions tomorrow. And as for the time limit, quantity, I think we're going to do everything we can to get complete information. Yeah. Thank you. Question completed. Question completed! I asked who would be speaking, and I had already summed it up. After the chairman, there's no way anyone's cheating. Please. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Now, please prepare to consider the matter. This is about the adoption of a draft decree on the calendar plan for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Dear colleagues, the document has been processed. factions previously known. Do we have a question for the draft schedule? None. We need to make a decision so that we can plan our work for the next session. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, the vote is coming, say so. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7471]] Please vote. Yeah, and we agreed that we work all the time. [[11:58:28]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. We now need to include the daily draft of the Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine. Now, we're just in the middle of the day, Gennady Hennadyovich. The question is quite complex. And that's what it's all about. That in its time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed three laws, or packages, of these laws. After they were voted and signed, it became clear that there were many provisions in these bills that would work against ordinary people and sometimes even be used in what we call opposition representatives, political persecution. What do you mean? The chief physician has no right to practice medical practice. Tell me, what kind of doctor is this if he doesn't operate? Next. The school director has no right to teach lessons. The members of the electoral commissions cannot take other positions except by working on election committees. That is, many problems have been identified. The Presidential Bill removes these inadequacies, and the bill agrees. But we have a colossal, honourable colleagues here, we have laws in force that go into effect on January 1st, and we are largely unable to register the Presidential Bills. Do you understand? So we need to make a decision. It can be in two parts: first -- or we, including this Presidential Bill in the agenda, and it is quite responsible and complex and requires careful work, we decide to repeal existing laws in the form of law; or we make such a palatative decision not to expose ourselves to criticism that no one wants to fight corruption, that we are canceling the act of these laws. But again, there is a problem. When these acts of law are suspended, we cannot consider this bill, because there are laws on this matter. But it meant that in the process of working on this law we would decide to abolish the liability of legal persons and of the third law. So, logically, we have to make one of two decisions. The first decision. In view of the inclusion of a comprehensive bill by the President, to abolish, or more specifically, those who have lost the validity of the laws, or to find such a political solution: to postpone their entry into force until the adoption of the law. Once again, however, there is a problem with how to consider a new law when laws have been passed. I'd like to put the faction position down for one minute on this point, but I'd like to ask the committee head to start by 1 minute. Huh?Oh, my God! I apologize, acting as chairman of the Hennadia Hennadiovich Moskal Committee. And I ask you to prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I'm literally brief. The point is, the President has only imposed two laws: The Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons in the Final Positions does not lose its power and automatically enters into force on January 1st, because the President does not propose anything, nor does it say in the Final Positions that it is losing power. [[new editor]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, you rightly said today that there is a need for unity in Parliament. But there are principles where opposition should work together, and coalitions are like fighting organized crime, drug addiction, corruption, and other negative phenomena that affect any citizen. But, Your Honor, I've already put forward my claims and your representatives. Well, you can't rewrite it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, you're actually setting it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u40	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u41	The head of state, that means who brings it. Replaced, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, here's the table, the replaced comets and sentences, and the name of the numbers, and nothing else. What has happened is what there is. It may be that we will vote or not. Everything equally needs to be voted on today, accepted for inclusion in the agenda. We're not here, we're on the committee tomorrow at 14 o'clock. I'm counting on him to throw out half of who made it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Thank you, Gennady Hennadyovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have no differences. As soon as the committee considers it, we'll take it as a basis immediately and this week, and we'll continue to assign the committee to work on it on a case-by-case basis. But I remind you once again, there are laws in force, and we have to do what we have to do here, adopt a new one when there are valid ones -- we need to be determined. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u43	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I took the floor with your permission, because you said that the bill was much better and you gave an example of the members of the district and district election committees. I have to tell you, unfortunately, no coma has been changed about them. And we have such a precedent that in this bill, and the right thing that Hennaday Hennadiovich said, to a large extent, the things and the slaps that were in this bill were preserved. So I'd like to ask you, because it's clear that this bill needs to be rescinded because it's new. there can be no two bills from one subject of regulation. On the other hand, I point out to you that I am the author of an alternative bill that was registered much earlier than the President's. I'm willing to call off my bill if this goes away. But I ask the second reading to take into account those suggestions that are completely objective. Because it's not about politics, it's about things that are generally acceptable to everyone in the room. But just so it doesn't happen, no one will pay attention to these remarks, and we'll still have a problem for everyone in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ruslan Knyazevich has a logic here. I don't think it's in the head's right to say that the bill is good or bad. We have to tell everyone that we have everything in order and normal. And I think in this way that your bill will be considered, and our position here, I think, is that it's the only thing to read very carefully and very carefully this law that is, to make all reasonable proposals, clarification and to go out on that bill that will serve the cause. I think we're the only ones here. Is there still a need to discuss it? Well, one man at a time from factions. Then Zarubinsky, please, and then Miroshnichenko, is the representative of the President, and Valentin Matthews. It's a discussion, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've offered two options, two technologies are possible. It seems to me that the second option, which is to delay the introduction of existing bills before the adoption of a new comprehensive one, is not entirely correct. Even if you understand very well that the fact that it is time-consuming after the already existing deferral will not be taken correctly and will not be properly understood. The best option is the first thing you've proposed, namely, to include in the agenda for consideration on the first reading, on the first reading, of the Presidential Bill, those proposals that, including those in colleagues, are being prepared for the second bill. But the laws available, if we're going to adopt this, we have to cancel, not postpone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u46	Please, Miroshnichenko, representative of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! There's only one point of view and information. The point is that the bill that was drafted by the President we introduced to the Supreme Council, it includes all the circumstances that we talked about. With regard to the liability of legal persons, yesterday’s bill appears to have represented the opposition of Philippenica, Pisarenko, where it refers to the suspension of these rules that relate to legal persons. So you can actually do two things: either, in fact, repeal those laws that were in force, rescind the vote, and adopt an already complex presidential law that takes fully into account the standards that GRECO recommended us, or postpone them until this complex law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u49	Thank you. The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear colleagues, what needs to be resolved today, and even long ago, the problem of increasing the fight against corruption, which, unfortunately, has gained tremendous scales in Ukraine, no one really has any doubts. And we think that the Supreme Council should act now in the way that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine suggested, by the way, it was and was stipulated yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting that we, in the end, move as quickly as possible to the solution of this very and very acute problem that stands in the order of the day of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. In fact, you and I are at the threshold today, if I'm not mistaken, the third time we've had these drafts. Unfortunately, we then voted very friendlyly for these bills -- three that were introduced by the previous President. More specifically, they were signed, and they were introduced by no one, since this is far from in line with our reality. And you and I were convinced that, in fact, those laws were meant to persecute not someone to be persecuted, but those laws, first of all, affected the interests of a doctor who had no right other than the basic work of any teacher and so on and so forth. And that's why we haven't done this before. So I suggest, let's say, most speakers agree on what really, logically, if we postpone them, the laws are, that is, a new law we don't have the right to adopt, because there are valid laws, that is, adopted laws. Deference. Here they said, yes, indeed, our colleagues made proposals to postpone the law for up to three years. And what does that do? Therefore, it is better to make a decision now that these laws have become invalid. To begin consideration, more faithfully, to include in the agenda and to consider a bill submitted by the President on Thursday. When preparing him for second reading, consider all that is necessary, as the colleagues here rightly spoke. And I think we'll have a law somewhere in January-month. So let's do this: first we're going to vote on the Ukrainian Recognition Act, which is that we've lost the validity of some of the laws of Ukraine. [[on preventing and combating corruption]] The Supreme Council decides: To recognize those who have lost their validity: The Ukrainian Act on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption, the Ukrainian Act on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences and the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[Information from the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2009. No. 45]] [[News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 2009, No. 45]] [[on Responsibility for Corruption Offences]] [[“Report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 2009 No. 46]] And the second. This law takes effect from the day it was published. Please vote as a matter of law. Vote. [[12:11:56]] For 263 Thank you, the law has been passed. Wait. I now put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7487, the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine, the author of the initiative, the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. [[12:12:31]] For 268. The law is included in the agenda. I'm proposing to the profile committee that they be ready either tomorrow, if they're ready, or Thursday, to consider this bill in the first reading. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u51	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This is what we've abolished the law, this must be a lesson for us. Why? Because all the laws that are made for the Western Grants by Granthoders, they're totally not responding to our reality, they're just making money. Don't we have a mind to make a law? I repeat: “Grandodder laws”, they go at the expense of the country. After that, we're going around, and we're going to break our minds about what to do with them, even though someone might have made money on it! Therefore, we have made the right decision. And now we have made our bill, our normal bill, our intellectual capacity, our professionals, which will be entirely relevant to our reality and will work for the country, and will play a huge role in the fight against corruption. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u52	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions have come out. So I'm asking the faction representatives. Motives? The factions have already spoken. That's enough. Dear colleagues, once again, and please, I am addressing the committee. We've put the President's daily bill in order. We should consider it at the President's suggestion, and the President is asking that this bill be considered as an urgent bill for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So tomorrow, tomorrow, no, Thursday is the last day we have to consider it and make a decision about the first reading. We'll be prepared as a whole as a law, we'll take it as a whole. I repeat, this will be determined by the sessional board. I don't know what's gonna happen on Thursday. But once again, I emphasize that we should consider it this week. The decision we make will be made. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 is being considered. [[on additional sources of State budget subsidies to local budgets]] This is registration number 7454. Yes, please be sure. [[12:15:14]] For-32 The bill is not included in the agenda. Overruled. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is under consideration. [[on the borderline age of State service for elected officials of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] [[Black Sea project]] Registration number 7228. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:15:51]] For-30 Unfortunately, the law is not supported. Although there is logic, it would be worth solving. Because this is about the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council in Crimea, who is elected, should not be subject, sorry, to the article of the Law on State Service, that if he is 60 years old, he cannot be chosen. Well, it's the will of the hall. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7451 is being considered, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. [[on the Special Preparation of Candidates for Judgeship]] The author of the bill is Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Please vote. 7451. [[12:16:52]] For 234 The bill is included in the agenda. I'd like the profile committee to prepare him for consideration, for consideration. We are considering a draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families. [[on material support for motherhood and childhood]] Bill number 7350. President's Bill. There's an offer, dear fellows, to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. The bill is small. [[12:17:40]] For 230 Supported. The representative of President Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko will report, please. It's from the committee to get Harry ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u53	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We are considering a bill to amend article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families, which was submitted by the President of Ukraine with the aim of creating adequate material conditions for raising children in families. [[on material support for motherhood and childhood]] This is another step in the implementation of President Viktor Yanukovic's pre-election programme. It provides, in particular, for monthly social benefits for each child from 3 to 13 years of age, 250 dollars, and from 13 to 18 years, 500 dollars. The bill is designed to take into account the objectives of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme “Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State”. [[on enhancing the targeting of the social support system]] The current size of assistance for low - income families — an average of 850 dollars a month — cannot provide the necessary conditions for the development of a child. The project foresees the amount of State social assistance determined in accordance with article 5 of the Act to increase each child from 3 to 13 years in 2011 by 60 December, 2012 by 120 December, 2013 by 180 December, 2014 by 250 December; and for a child between 13 and 18 years in 2011 by 100 December, 2012 by 230 December, 2013 by 360 December, 2014 by 500 December. Thus, in 2011 every small family with two children under the age of 13 and up to the age of 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u54	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u55	The monthly aid will be increased by 160 or an average of 40 percent, and for a multi - parent family with four children, two under 13 years of age, by 320 or an average of 30 percent. Dear colleagues, considering that the content of the bill is in fact a matter of execution or determination of the President's pre-election programme, which is supported by the citizens during the presidential elections, please support it as a whole as a law, it will be a good gift to our voters before the New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, from the profile committee, Vasil Georgiyovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, this bill was introduced by President Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic in the area of implementation of one of the social components of the reform programme. Its meaning, despite the difficult, we all know that the situation in the economy and the financial side will significantly and gradually increase the level of public social assistance for children of poor families. It is planned for each child from 3 to 13 years in 2011 to increase by 60 bracelets, in 2012 to 120, in 2013 to 180, in 2014 to 250. What does that mean? Let's say today the amount of State social assistance for poor families is determined on the basis of the rate of subsistence. It is approved at the same time as the adoption of the Public Budget Act. The State Budget Act 2011 provides for a level of security for children under 6 years of age of 50 per cent of the subsistence minimum. Let's put it this way, at the beginning of the year - 408 bracelets, at the end of the year - 435. At the beginning of the year, 468 bracelets will be allocated to each child at the end of the year, 495. The President's bill provides for increased social assistance for children between the ages of 13 and 18. I mean, even bigger. In 2011, 100 bracelets, in 2012 – 230 and so on. For this category of children, assistance by 2011, instead of 408 grevens, will be 580. And by the end of the year, 621. Compare. In 2010, this aid amounted to 260 grevens. And this year, after the adoption of the law, there are twice as many. Such families who receive a substantial allowance in Ukraine are 70,000 97. According to Minfin, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u58	Yeah, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u59	It is estimated that 138 million bracelets will need to be added to the budget for 2011. The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 1 December and proposes to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law. To enter into force on 1 January 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u60	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Is there a need to discuss matters? None. That's all clear, fellow officers of honor. Then, I put to the vote the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 7350 – to amend article 15 of the Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. [[on material support for motherhood and childhood]] The bill is written by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:24:10]] For 252 Copy that. Dear colleagues! You can see that in the bill, the president is proposing that he will take effect from the moment he is published. That is, the sooner he becomes the law, the sooner our people get the support who has the children. This is one moment. And second moment. We're with you in the budget process, that's also logical. And the third. Both the reporter and the co-reporter from the committee were offered to accept it today as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of Law 7350, namely, the Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. [[on material support for motherhood and childhood]] Please vote. [[12:25:18]] For 261 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on the repayment of debt for sub-credits granted to energy-generating companies]] [[Registration number 7346]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:25:56]] For 224 Offer supported. Reported by National Deputy Gluschenko Igor Mikolayovich. Please, two minutes. Get Melnik ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Since 1996, the lack of sources has not resolved the issue of repayment by Ukraine’s energy - generating companies of debt for subcredit. In 2010, the budget set up a mechanism under which, at the expense of repayment of debt under sub-credits, financing of coal enterprises, including the repayment of debt for their consumption of electricity, allows for the resolution of the issue of the repayment of creditors' debt to energy and coal industries and the corresponding improvement of their financial situation. The bill is designed to ensure the full implementation of the budget programme for the restructuring of coal and peat mining industries, including the repayment of the debt for consumption in past periods of electricity, which is financed by the funds of the special fund, a separate source of formation is the repayment of the debt owed to the reserve by the sub-credits provided to energy-generating companies for the implementation of the electricity development project. According to the current edition of the State Budget 2010 Act, HK TES will receive exclusive funding from the General Budget Fund as the repayment of the principal amount of debt for subcredit, i.e. 194 million dollars, and from a percentage of 141 million dollars, and Minfin's fees for subcredit – 21 million dollars – will come to the general budget fund. The bill to pay off the debt of a sub-credit in full is designed to ensure interest and to pay Minfin for granting a sub-credit to the special fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u62	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u63	The TEC High Council Committee supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Professor Melnik Petr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 3 December considered a bill amending the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2010 at number 7346. The bill proposes a special fund to reduce by 162 million dollars the planned annual amount of return to the budget by energy-generating subcredit companies to implement the electricity market development project. This reduction is intended to cover the same amount of payment for guarantees and loans received at the expense of the State’s funds. This will contribute to the implementation of the budget programme of the Ministry of Coal Industry, the restructuring of the coal and peat industry. The bill is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the budget. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Finance. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion to the bill, points out that it is appropriate to draw the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers on the proposed legislative proposal. At the same time, the bill needs to align the revisions to article 2, paragraph 40, and article 6, paragraph 52, with the budgetary terminology outlined in the budget committee’s proposals. The Committee decided to recommend Bill 7346 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading review to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law taking into account the proposals put forward by the Committee on Budget Issues concerning the bill. At the same time, I note for the transcript that since the Committee's consideration of the bill, Law 2773 of December 3 has been adopted, amending the Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010. In this context, in order to ensure the balance of the State Budget aggregates and the harmonization of Bill 7346 of the last edition of the State Budget Act on the State Budget of the United Nations
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u66	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u67	The Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, is required when drafting the bill to provide appropriate editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and the addition to Bill 7346 when it is adopted. Please support the committee's decision to take into account the sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u68	Yes, have a seat, please. Yes, I see a forest of hands wanting to share in the discussion. Is that clear? It's all clear. At that time, I am asking for adoption on the basis of Bill 7346 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on the repayment of debt for sub-credits granted to energy-generating companies]] Please vote. [[12:31:55]] For 252 Copy that. The profile committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. No objections? Moreover, if we do not accept, nothing will be done, the budget year will end. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010. [[on the repayment of debt for sub-credits granted to energy-generating companies]] Registration number 7346. Please vote. [[12:32:38]] For 258. The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 is under consideration. [[on the reduction of the collection volume in the form of a target allowance for an active tariff on electricity and heat]] [[Registration number 7388]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:33:16]] For 210 Offer supported. Igor Mikolaiovich's pitcher, please. And get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u69	Honourable People's Deputies, a bill designed for the financial stability of the electricity industry. In accordance with the bill, it is envisaged to reduce the amount of the assembly in the form of a target bonus to the current electricity and heat tariff in 2010, which is paid by the Energy Agency to 320.4 million dollars. The reduction of the target supplement in the current year is possible because of the relatively late adoption of Ukraine’s State Budget for 2010. The budget manager of Minpalevenergo’s budget of the above-mentioned amount of funds under the budget programmes financed by the State Budget is at the expense of the target allowance. In particular, the code 1101080 — 50 million dollars, the code 1101120 — 94 million dollars, the code 1101390 — 148.2 million dollars, and the code 1101430 — 28.2 million dollars. Today, TES National Energy Company Ukraine is suffering from electricity production. The cost-effectiveness of electricity production ranges to minus 10 percent. Not only does this make it impossible to develop and modernize businesses, but it also endangers the stable functioning of the energy sector. The bill does not increase tariffs for consumers due to a reduction in the target supplement in the current year, increasing the level of non-performing by 2 percent. The Committee of the Supreme Council on the TEC reviewed the bill and agreed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u70	Thank you. From the committee is Melnik Petrover Volodymyrovich, deputy head of the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 3 December considered the draft Act on the introduction of the Ukrainian State Budget 2010 into the Ukraine Act, number 7388. [[on the reduction of the collection volume in the form of a target allowance for an active tariff on electricity and heat]] The bill provides for a reduction of 320.4 million dollars per year of the corresponding congregation, which is the income of a special state budget fund. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce to the above amount the budget allocation of Minpalevenergo under separate budget programmes, the sources of which are the revenue of the budget from such a congregation. The bill is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, a draft of the first reading may be adopted on the basis of the relevant conclusion of the government. It should be noted that Appendix 1 and number 2 of the bill need to be complemented by the missed summary lines according to the legislative budget, which is also noted in the conclusion of Minfin. The Committee decided to recommend Bill 7388 to the Supreme Council on the outcome of its first reading to adopt as a basis and in general as a law taking into account such additions, as set out in the Committee's report on the budget for the bill. At the same time, for the transcript, I note that since the Committee's consideration of the bill, laws have been adopted amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010: Act No. 2773 of December 3, as well as Bill No. 7346 of today's session. In this regard, in order to ensure a balance between the State Budget summary and the reconciliation of Bill 7388 of the last edition of the State Budget Act 2010 to the Committee on Budget Affairs, along with the General Legal Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u72	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u73	In drafting the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is required to provide appropriate editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and the additions of Bill 7388 when adopted. Please support the committee's decision to take into account the sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u74	Thank you, sit down, please. Do you want to talk about it? None. I am voting on the adoption of draft Bill 7388 amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2010 (to reduce the amount of assembly in the form of a targeted surcharge to an existing tariff on electricity and heat). Please vote. [[12:38:43]] For 261 Decision supported. There is a proposal for a committee to accept it as a matter of law, but with the suggestions and observations proposed by the committee. From Minfin, who represents us? Is there no objection? None. The Ministry of Finance won't deny it? That is why I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of Act 7388 amending the Ukrainian National Budget 2010 Act, taking into account the proposals made by the Professional Committee. Please vote. [[12:39:32]] For 264 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on State Procurement and the "On Organizing and Conducting the Final Part of the European Championship 2012 from Football in Ukraine" is under consideration. [[Registration number 7348]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:40:07]] For 222 Supported. Please, the author of the bill is Alexander Viktorovich Zac. Prepare a European committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The Cabinet of Ministers Order of 15 September 2010 renamed the National Agency for Training and Conducting the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[No.871]] The regulation also amended the Agency's Regulation to define its designated central authority for the preparation and implementation of infrastructure projects for the preparation of Euro-2012 and other international sporting events. A draft of the bill submitted was designed to conduct, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, public procurement and to organize and hold the final part of the European Football Championship in Ukraine with a new definition of “specially authorized central executive body”. It should be noted, however, that the specificities of procurement procedures apply only to the goods, works and services necessary for the preparation and implementation of the Euro-2012 and do not apply to other international sporting events. Given the importance of this Act, I ask the distinguished deputies to support, as a whole, the adoption of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u76	Thank you. Europeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u77	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. Good afternoon, chairman. The bill was considered on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt it as a basis. I would also like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the expert office, which concludes for some reason that the bill will act on other international issues. I think they just didn't read the bill because it clearly states that this special order of purchase of goods, jobs, services is in place to carry out the tasks and actions of the State-wide goal programme to prepare and conduct the final part of the European Championship in 2012 with football in Ukraine. No other competition applies. The word “other international sporting events” is inserted only in the name of a new body that has changed everything. Someone just didn't read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u78	Yeah, well, I'm sorry, Yuri Mikolayovich. Take another look at this, and let's work it out. Is it going to mean that we're giving benefits, and this is about benefits, about 2012 or other international sporting events? Right over here, we need to make this clear. If there are no other international sporting events, then it is only Euro-2012. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u79	If you look at the changes that are proposed, like the State Procurement Act, this is article 2, right? Also in the law on organizing and holding the final part of the European Championship, this is article 5.1, well, a number more, you'll see everywhere that change is the same. It's similar to the contents. It is literally as follows that the goods, works and services that are procured at the expense of the funds that are the arranger, continue to be the name of that body and the title “other international sporting events”. It is further written “to carry out the tasks and actions of the state-level goal programme to prepare and hold the final part of the European Championship in Ukraine”. That is, this special order only works for one sporting event, for the 2012 European Football Championship. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? None. Dear colleagues, I then put to the vote the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 7348, the draft law amending the laws of Ukraine “On State Procurement” and “On the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine”, taking into account that position and clarifying that the issue of other international sporting events is not related to the 2012 Championship, it is simply called this authority now, and the purchases will only take place under Euro-2012. With that in mind, once again, I ask you to vote for support in the first reading. For. [[12:45:13]] For 257 Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by a reporter and a committee of profile to accept as a law as a whole. I'm gonna say it again. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a bill under number 7348, namely, the Act amending the Law on State Procurement and the “On Organizing the Final Part of the European Championship 2012 from football in Ukraine”, taking into account that with lawyers it is clear that it is only the final part of the European Championship 2012. With such an offer, I ask you to vote as a law. [[12:46:09]] For 262 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on mandatory public social insurance. [[on the stabilisation of the activities of the public compulsory social insurance funds]] [[Registration number 7365]] Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. [[12:46:46]] For 224 Supported. Please, Hara Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! The purpose of this bill, namely, collective work, is the first legislative amendment to the Supreme Council of the Single Social Import Act. And the second. Stabilising and enhancing the effectiveness of the Public Social Insurance Fund, which today has been in a difficult financial situation, providing them with better quality social services in a timely manner and preventing abuse by insured persons when receiving material security. The adoption of this law will provide a legal, financial and institutional framework for the introduction of a single contribution to the general government social insurance. Better use of social insurance funds. It is legislative to address the issue of a common approach regarding the appointment and funding of child birth and child care assistance until the age of 3 years by the labour and social protection agencies of the population through the State budget. Prevent abuse of material security from funds, social insurance funds for temporary disability. And improve the social protection of victims at work. In the Committee's consideration of the matter, separate criticisms were expressed, including by our legal body of the Supreme Council. These comments will be taken into account on second reading. The Committee proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Please sit down. Yes, there was a report from both the committee and the authors. Is there a need to discuss? None. I then propose a profile committee on this, and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is the same proposal, to support Bill 7365, to amend some Ukrainian legislation on mandatory public social insurance on the basis of the first reading. [[on the stabilisation of the activities of the public compulsory social insurance funds]] Please vote. [[12:49:37]] For 261 Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine is under consideration, and there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[on the supervision of a consolidated basis]] [[Registration number 7399]] Please be supportive. [[12:50:10]] For 223 Thank you. By the way, dear colleagues, this is the first bill from the National Bank. We gave him back, more precisely, the Constitutional Court gave him back the right of legislative initiative. The deputy head of the National Bank, Krotuk Vladimir Leonidovich, reports. Please, two minutes. Prepare Polunyev from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs! The drafting of Act No. 7399 provides for the need to improve market surveillance of financial services by introducing supervision on a consolidated basis for financial groups comprising banks and other financial institutions. The aim of this supervision is to ensure the stability of the financial system and to strengthen the protection of the interests of bank investors and financial investors. The establishment of supervision on a consolidated basis is one of the measures set out in the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme of the President of Ukraine and the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukraine's Legislation to EU legislation. The introduction of supervision on a consolidated basis provides for regulation and analysis of the activities of financial groups with a view to limiting the risks to which a financial institution is exposed as a result of its participation in such a group. First of all, the bill provides for a clear definition of the powers of government regulators to monitor the consolidated basis depending on the type of group that includes the financial institution. When determining the type of group, the relationship of control between the group and the activities of the financial group that predominates is taken into account. According to the bill, the National Bank of Ukraine will supervise on a consolidated basis the banking groups, and the State Commission on Financial Services Market Regulation and the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets will supervise non-bank financial groups. The draft law provides for the right of State regulators to exercise supervision on a consolidated basis, within the limits given to them by law, to establish appropriate requirements for banking and non-bank financial groups. In particular, these requirements relate to the existence of corporate governance systems and other requirements. We believe that the adoption of this law will enhance the effectiveness of supervision of financial institutions that are part of financial groups, the security and stability of the financial system, the protection of the interests of investors and financial investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u85	The bill is in agreement with the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, the State Securities Commission. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u86	Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Finance and Banking, Yuri Volodymyrovich Poluniev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 15 December this year notes that the adoption of this bill will be one of the steps identified by the President of Ukraine's Economic Reform Programme for 2010-2014, and is aimed at harmonising Ukrainian banking legislation with the requirements, first and foremost, of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the European Union. The Committee's decision recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain acts of Ukraine submitted by the National Bank of Ukraine. [[on the supervision of the consolidated basis of the register]] [[Registration number 7399]] The adoption of this bill will primarily contribute to greater financial stability in the country, since it will allow regulators to supervise banking and financial groups and to present appropriate risks at an early stage when they may arise. Therefore, in view of the importance and relevance of the bill, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept it in its first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Yes. Are you in? Oh, come on, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u89	Dear National Deputies! Conceptually, this legislative initiative of the National Bank is, indeed, the right one. It can be useful as a result if we adjust certain standards to the second reading. In fact, this bill is really meant to eliminate the risks arising from joint action in a banking group. But I have to go out to this rostrum to point out the questions that must be considered for the second reading. Are there, in fact, separate and regulated powers today between the National Bank, the State Commission on the Stock Market or the State Commission on Financial Services, or are there now three ministries in the financial group that will require information, and we will only strengthen regulatory policies that will not contribute to further developments in the banking sector? I think we need to think about whether we should legally regulate some of the norms or delegate these norms, for example, about establishing the responsibility and authority of the controller in this financial group. Should these subjective factors be determined, or should it be the law, its responsibility, and so forth? I think we should answer whether it is right that this law will not now have the right to operate public associations, holding companies that have so far operated, or whether there should be only banking groups. I think we should answer a lot of things. For example, under this law today, we give State regulators the right to demand from audit organizations, well, almost any information or information that may affect any future risks, does it not conflict with other laws, does it not conflict with laws relating to property rights? Because now there's going to be this kind of total audit across the group. Therefore, the second reading should be considered seriously, too, so that we do not overstretch the rod in part, in regulatory policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u90	Yes, please, one minute, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, this law is in the package of laws that are before the Committee today. This package of laws provides for three main tasks. The first and most important is monitoring the activities of banks and financial institutions, which is what is needed for the market today. The second is the creation of conditions for market participants to understand that they have not only responsibilities but also rights and others to protect investors. This is the law from a package of such laws. Today, the Committee is considering four more laws that will allow us to harmonise and stabilize lending and, in general, the financial sustainability of the country. It is therefore boring to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Exchanged thoughts. I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading of Bill 7399 on amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the supervision of a consolidated basis]] Please vote. [[12:58:48]] For 258. The bill was adopted in the first reading. We're working, we're preparing for another. Let's go to second reading. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, registration number 7266. [[on debt restructuring terms]] A report from the Committee will be made by Gluschenko. Sorry, Igor Mikolaiovich's Gossip Girl will report. Now, while you're at it, the reporter. Ready? Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. We agreed if they had any information, we'd listen. Now, Igor Mikolaiovich. Please, one minute, Kirilenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u93	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, as agreed, the faction held an appropriate meeting, and I am informing you of the decision that is being made. Dear colleagues, the position of our faction is expressed in the following. We clearly, clearly insist that in the information of the Attorney General's Office, which will be here, from this rostrum, events have already been clearly recorded, given their unprecedentedity in terms of the attraction to responsibility. A simple account of the latest events, the faction did not support such an algorithm. The unprecedented events that put the survival of parliamentaryism and opposition and democracy at stake in Ukraine have prompted the faction to make such a decision. We cannot enter the hall until our offer is supported. Breaking a criminal case and getting held accountable – only after this information will we enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we don't discuss this information. It is now 13 o’clock in the head of the Supreme Council for the next meeting of the Conciliation Board of factions. Please, they will continue to consult there, including in this regard. Please, Igor Mikolaiovich. We're looking at Bill 7266. [[second reading]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 1 December 2010, the Committee considered a comparative table for the second reading of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Martinenko and Korzem. [[on debt restructuring terms]] [[Registration number 7266]] The text adopted in the first reading included five suggestions from national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, whose content is the rejection of the bill. So these proposals are rejected by the committee. And for adoption in the second reading and in general there is a text that is accepted as a basis. I inform the National Deputies that the Committee's request to the Ministry of Finance for their position with regard to this bill has been given us a copy of the conclusion made to the Committee on Budget Questions under the signature of the Deputy Minister of Merkowski, who has been supported by this bill. The principal administration, the legal administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has no comment on the bill. In view of what has been said, I propose that the people's deputies agree with the text of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, as set out by the committee in the right column, in the right column of the table, and accept it in the second reading and in general. [[on debt restructuring terms]] [[Registration number 7266]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u96	Thank you. Let's move on to the second reading procedure. This is how one, two, three, four, five amendments of Carmazin’s colleague works. But he will not take part in the sitting, he will not stand up accordingly. So who else has a note, respected colleagues, perhaps those articles that are included? Even though it's still a big account, it's the way it's supposed to be. As was accepted in the first reading, all of these positions, as it were, are also supported in the second reading by excluding the five suggestions that have been made. Nobody insists? Yes, then I propose adoption in general, in the second reading and in the whole of Bill 7266, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. [[on debt restructuring terms]] Please vote. [[13:04:24]] For 232 Thank you, the law has been passed. We're looking at a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar. [[concerning the declaration of sugar residues]] Registration number 6380. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV and radio listeners! A very important bill, on government regulation, production, and implementation of sugar, envisioning the introduction of a mandatory declaration of the presence of sugar by business entities. The urgent need for this bill is that, because of the lack of such information in the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economics, there is a great deal of demand in our country when part of the available sugar is hidden. And this population suffers, especially because the cost of sugar rises on a baseless basis. At the time of drafting the bill for second reading to the committee, there were five suggestions. On the basis of the comments made and taken into account by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to ask Adam Ivanovich to make amendment number 1 in support of the Supreme Council. And I ask my colleagues to support, to vote in favour, because this support is more clearly, from a legal point of view, setting the term. In particular, we replaced “declaration of residues of sugar” with “declaration of the presence of sugar”. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll follow through. So we have a four right over here. 5 amendments. It is proposed to vote on the amendment. It's an amendment from a colleague of the Seminomist, she was rejected. But now the profile committee is offering to support it. Please vote. Vote 1 of the amendment of the Seminomist colleague. [[13:06:56]] For 245 1 amendment supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u99	Thank you. And I would like to support the 5 revisions in the final edition of the committee. That is, I dictate to the stenographer: “In the event of failure or timely submission by subjects of the entrepreneurial activity of declarations of the amount of sugar held by them, or the determination in the declaration of incomplete or unreliable data, such entities shall be subject to a fine of between 10 and 200 untaxed minimum citizens’ income.” The 5th amendment said that 500 non-taxable minimums should definitely be applied. It was denied by both the administration and the Cabinet of Ministers. So there's a suggestion to support it in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u100	I am proposing to support the 5th amendment in the paper, which instead of “committed a fine of 500 untaxed minimums” write “from 10 to 200 untaxed minimums”. Please vote. [[13:08:21]] For 246 Correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u101	Thank you. Please vote on this bill in the second and generally adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u102	Thus, honourable colleagues, with two amendments in mind, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole bill under number 6380, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar (for the Declaration of the Residues of Sugar). Please vote. It will be. [[13:09:08]] For 243 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants, second reading. [[on how to start and cancel quarantine mode]] [[Registration number 6556]] Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the purpose of this bill is to strengthen the monitoring of phytosanitary measures to organize and refine quarantine zones. The adoption of the draft law will provide an opportunity for operators to move grain, oil, and grain crops within the area without a quarantine certificate. Five amendments were made to the committee by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Partially 1-n, 4 corrections rejected. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants to be adopted on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u104	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, which of the authors of the amendments: Carmazin, Wonderland - insists on its amendments? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u105	They're in agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u106	Agreed, not quite, I see, agreed, because it's rejected. I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee on adoption as a whole, second reading as a whole as a bill of bill 6556, draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act. [[on how to start and cancel quarantine mode]] Please vote. [[13:11:12]] For 241 Thank you. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u108	A draft Act on the National Environmental Policy of Ukraine is under consideration for the period up to 2020. [[Registration number 7053]] [[second reading]] Reports the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Sergey Mikolayovich Glazunov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 4 November 2010, number 2686-6 of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the draft Ukrainian Law on National Environmental Policy for the period up to 2020 was finalized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee initiated and conducted committee hearings with the participation of public organizations, scientists, and all interested parties. In all, 85 proposals have been made by the Ukrainian National Environmental Policy Strategy for the period to 2020, of which 83 have been included, including 8 which have been partially taken into account and 2 have been rejected. The comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the proposal are also taken into account during committee hearings and reflected in the decision of the Committee of 06 October 2010. In particular, the strategy is responsible for the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes. The title of the document is given in accordance with the law. And the committee proposes to present it as follows: the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Environmental Policy for the period to 2020. The chief judicial office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a draft law without notice. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster decided to introduce a revised bill and to propose to the Supreme Council that it be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to vote for a change in the name of the law. Offered. We adopted, in our first reading, “the Strategy for Ukraine’s National Environmental Policy for 2020”. It is now proposed “on the Basic Principles of Ukraine’s State Environmental Policy for the period up to 2020”. Please vote on the new name of the law. Vote. [[13:14:16]] For 245 New name supported. I now turn to the authors of the amendments. There's an absolute majority of them. Some of Carmazin’s colleagues have not been included in the revisions. Don't insist. Who of the authors insists on their amendments or insists on the committee’s approval of the amendment? You don't? Then I propose a profile committee to adopt, on the second reading and in general, Act No. 7053 “On the Basic Principles of the National Environmental Policy Strategy of Ukraine for the period up to 2020”. The chief legal office called for a bill of observation. Please vote. [[13:15:23]] For 249 The law is passed. Thank you. We are considering a draft of the Law on the Prohibition of Disposal, Retraining, Deprivation and Transfer to the Rent of Health Care Institutions, which is not related to health and rest. [[Registration number 6436]] [[second reading]] Reports from the Committee of Alexy Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u111	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to preserve a network of health facilities, to prevent their liquidation and misuse, to solve the problems of good - quality public health by prohibiting the removal, retraining, alienation and transfer to the rental of health facilities for non -health and recreation activities. The bill was supported by the National Deputies at the first reading of September 7, this year by 266 votes. The second reading included 18 suggestions, which were taken into account. Thus, the National Deputies, members of the Economic Policy Committee, at their meeting on November 30, this year, having considered the draft law on the prohibition of liquidation, retraining, alienation and transfer to the lease of health facilities for non-health and rest, prepared for second reading, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. The bill is designed with observations by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. That is, if there are any questions on the proposals, as amended by the national MPs, we can consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u112	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows. Which of the authors of the amendments insists? You don't? Yes, then I propose to support the adoption of the law in the second reading as a whole, the Law on the Prohibition of Disposal, Retraining, Exclusion and Transfer to the Rental of Health Care Services, which does not involve recovery and rest. [[Registration number 6436]] Please vote. [[13:17:54]] For 242 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering the draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5014]] Reported to the committee’s first deputy head in foreign affairs, Taras Cnerovil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national deputies. This law, the bill has a long history. Our committee has tried, as far as possible, taking into account the important, very serious meaning of the clear fixation of the adjacent zone, to work on it. We tried to work out, as far as possible, the amendments that were, take into account the position and the Cabinet of Ministers, take into account, inter alia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Service, and so forth. But the final conclusion, which brought all of us together: both our committee, and the consolidated position of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the position of our Chief Legal Authority, which in the form of this law brings in too many contradictions, creates a coalition, and therefore the best option is to reject the bill as a result of the second reading and, as the Chief Legal Authority suggests, amend, make clear changes to the relevant professional laws. Since the convention to which this law has been implemented provides for a number of measures that can be implemented, not at the level of Ukraine’s laws, but at a lower legal level, and can be normally effective, we propose, therefore, that in the second reading, we reject the Adhesive Zone Act, the Adhesive Zone Bill, but at the same time speed up the consideration. And here's our request to both the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the National Security Committee for a new bill from our colleague Leonidas Kojara, which is prepared to clearly record the existence of the adjacent zone and to record it not by law, or to reproduce only the corresponding chaos of legislation, but by specific norms in the state border legislation. This bill is registered, it can actually be considered soon in the Supreme Council. We ask that, after the second reading of the adjacent zone bill, we expedite the consideration of Leonid Kojara's bill, because we have to regulate this rule in some way or another, and regulate it in a way that will not create any additional coalitions. This position of our committee may be either a voting method at all for rejection, or a support for the first amendment made by Karmazin, which predicted the same deviation that we supported by our committee. To choose the leadership of the Supreme Council. Clearly, this bill is obviously not going to work properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u114	Thank you. It is only the Foreign Affairs Committee that can make such a diplomatic decision: settling issues in the form of additions to existing legislation, not a separate law. I mean, do whatever you want and settle whatever you want. That's all well and good, but the proposal that came out of your mouth, correct, fair, is not the conclusion of the committee. This is your proposal to cancel it, and the committee wrote: "to regulate as additions to existing legislation." I mean, it's clear what we need to do with this law. I'm voting on a motion for the adoption of Act No. 5014 concerning the adjacent zone of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:21:48]] Only seven national deputies supported such a proposal. The bill is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service is under consideration. [[Registration number 4071]] The committee reports Samuelenko, the National Security and Defence Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Draft Law 4071 provides for: the inclusion in the list of military training units of the higher education institutions of the military training department; establishes the procedure for the deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other military units; establishes the procedure for the approval of a list of military and military training and training units in the training of Ukrainian citizens for these specialties; refers to persons admitted to military service under the contract of sergeants and seniors, military personnel who have completed military training or military training units and who have received under-complete higher education; defines the procedure for training Ukrainian citizens in military service, senior military training institutions or military training units of persons under 23 years of age who are trained in military service under the contract of the military and senior military service under the contract of the military service of the military service under the contract of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the military service of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the military of the military of the law of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the law of the military of the military of the law of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military service of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the military of the All the amendments that have been tabled have been taken into account, in editorial terms, one amendment to Carmazin. The Committee recommends that it be adopted as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. But there is a serious and fair observation here of our Chief Legal Authority that the law is in conflict with the Constitution. What did the committee say about this, Yuri Pavlovich? The committee disagrees with the fact that it is contrary to the Constitution. And I also support the position of the General Legal Authority that the law is contrary to the Constitution, article 22, which narrows down human rights. So we can come with you: accept it, but. But I'm afraid the guarantor of the Constitution will do the right thing if he vetoes this bill. I put to the vote the proposal of the second-reading committee and, in general, the Law 4071 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:41]] For 241 The law is passed. But once again, there are serious problems. We are considering a draft Act amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. [[on State-to-State-to-State-to-customs benefits]] [[Registration number 6506]] Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. The bill proposes to establish that public service payments are exempt from work and social protection of the population, prosecutors and defendants. The second read came with three amendments from the people’s deputy Carmazin, all of which did not apply to the bill and were rejected by the committee. Therefore, the proposal to accept a second reading and a bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u118	Thank you. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law, the Act amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. [[on State-to-State-to-State-to-customs benefits]] [[Bill number 6506]] Please vote. [[13:27:20]] For 243 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a bill amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[concerning the determination of the size of the licence assembly]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 7021]] Reporter, this is where Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich stood. Please, Landik from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u119	The committee discussed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, prepared for the second reading, (recognizance of the size of the licensing assembly). The purpose of the bill is to improve the procedure for determining the size of the licensing assembly for the issuance, transformation and extension of the licence for analogue-air language, the license of the software provider, and to establish the size of the licensing assembly for the issue of licences for satellite, cable, cable and multichannel language. The project provides for the presentation of article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act in a new edition, which provides for the development of the National Council and approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the calculation of the size of the licensing congregation. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the implementation of the bill will lead to an increase in the income of the State budget. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council believes that a bill can be adopted in a second reading, provided that observations are taken into account. Nor does the Rules Committee object. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u120	Yes, I'm afraid Yuri Anatolyovich is a little distracted. I want to make one more point. As proposed by the committee, or in an editorial that was adopted in the first reading? All right, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u121	We've got some repairs here. And let's go through these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u122	We'll work and you'll be gone. Yes, repair of Chevchenka's 1st colleague. It's counted. They insist on her support. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:08]] For the four of us. Not supported. So the first reading is left. Carmazin's correction is rejected. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Correction three, Chevy. It's counted. Please confirm. I'll bet you a vote. DEFINITIONS [[13:30:38]] For the She got three votes, so there's still an editor for the first reading. Thus, honourable colleagues, taking into account the amendments we have voted on, I put to the vote the second reading and the whole bill, number 7021. The Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting. [[concerning the determination of the size of the licence assembly]] Please vote. [[13:31:20]] For 245 Thank you, the law has been passed. In fact, I emphasize once again, accepted in the same way that we accepted it in the first reading. We are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children. [[new editor]] Registration number 6510. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Hara Vasil Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the Committee has prepared for second reading a comparative table for the draft Act amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Citizens and Streetless Children No. 6510. A working group on the preparation of the bill was set up in accordance with the Committee's decision and attended by representatives of Mintruda, Ministry of the Family and Youth, Minust, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Economics. Of the 34 proposals for second reading received from the Ukrainian people's deputies, more than half were taken into account: 19. The rules on strengthening the protection of the property and housing rights of orphans, or among them, proposed by the people's deputies of Movcanov, Karmazin, Suhim, were taken into account. Certain provisions of the bill were brought into line with existing legislation, article 25 of the Child Protection Act, article 33 of the Law on the provision of institutional and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental rights, the Housing Code, the Civil Code and so forth. 15 amendments were rejected for respectable reasons. On 1 December, the Committee considered the comparative table at its meeting, endorsed it and invited the Supreme Council to consider it, adopt it on second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we will look at which of the authors insists on amendments that are rejected. These are the repairs of Karmazin, Kirilczuk, Yavorowski, and Silent, no. Nobody insists? Yes, I'm paying attention, my fellow dignitaries, and Vasil Georgievovich, I think you've been watching that the Chief Legal Office wrote: “the law requires substantial work and introduction into the second reading.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u125	We have considered this, more precisely, even though Adam Ivanovich did not consider a group that consisted of representatives of those ministries and departments that were represented there. We agreed with part of the proposals, but we did not agree with part of the proposals. It's up to the people's deputies. The Committee considers that, in the form of a second-reading bill, it is worthy to adopt it on second reading and as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u126	Yes, then I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and in the whole bill under number 6510 of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children. Please vote. [[13:34:45.]] For 236 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[dealing with the payment of one-time leave in connection with the adoption of a child]] [[Registration number 7019]] [[second reading]] The head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour is Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u127	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, was adopted on October 19, 2010 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for the first reading of a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the regulation of the payment of one-time leave in connection with the adoption of a child]] By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work was entrusted with the task of finalizing the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of legal entities and introducing it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. Let me remind you of the essence of the question. On September 23, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for families who adopted children of orphans or children deprived of parental care, which is aimed at supporting families who adopted children of orphans and children deprived of parental care. This law gives a woman or a man who adopts an orphan child or a child deprived of parental care a one-time paid vacation of 56 calendar days. However, the relevant law did not address the issue of sources of funding for the said leave, and therefore the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine drafted Bill 7019, which placed the payment of the said leave on the employer, since the Ukrainian law on "For Vacations" placed the payment of the leave on the employer. The committee supports the legislative initiative and believes that the adoption of the bill will help to improve the protection of the rights of citizens who adopted the child and also create conditions for the realization of the right of orphans and children deprived of parental care to family education and will allow for the removal of gaps in legislation. The committee dealt with 10 proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, of which 5 were taken into account, and others were rejected for a number of reasons. At its meeting on December 1, this year, the Committee decided to approve the text of a comparative table with the proposals and amendments of the Ukrainian national deputies and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in a second reading and in general. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice and noted that the bill could be adopted on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u128	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovno. Dear colleagues of Yavorowski, Carmazin, their amendments are not taken into account, they do not insist, for they are not in the hall. Others do not insist on voting, confirmation. Yes. Zarubinski, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u129	Thank you. Literally 30 seconds. Here the whole body of the bill goes through one phrase: “women”. In just one place, it is said that parents can take advantage of this vacation. Well, parents are like men. You got it. Now, in the context of what's going on, it's not clear that it's women who have to use it. So through the whole body of the bill there must be one of the parents, you know, who adopted. Well, that's right, that's what we're talking about about gender policy, and it's supposed to be in legislation. By the way, parents now often adopt and raise children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us, indeed, listen to this fitting proposal to record: one parent everywhere where women or parents are. That is, the one who adopted him to be entitled to such a vacation. I am voting on the second reading as a whole as a bill under number 7019 -- the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, taking into account what we agreed to write down everywhere: one of the parents. [[dealing with the payment of one-time leave in connection with the adoption of a child]] Whether it's a father or a mother. Please vote. [[13:39:38]] For 233 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the settlement of legal relations between custody and care bodies and natural persons in need of care and care]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 6408]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy's subcommittee Vladislav Valeriyovich Zabarski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u131	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered proposals that came from subjects of the right of legislative initiative in furthering the second reading of the bill on amending the Ukrainian Civil Code, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 19, 2010, on the first reading. [[on the settlement of legal relations between care and care bodies and natural persons in need of care and care]] [[Registration number 6408]] The bill proposes to define the system of public administrations entrusted with care and care and to introduce the rules of the Civil Code of Ukraine into the definition of categories of persons subject to care and care in accordance with the laws governing the protection of children. During the drafting of the bill and its preparation for second reading to the committee, there were six proposals, of which 4 are included, 2 are included in part. The Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Practically all the comments, even some of the comments of a colleague of Carmazin, are included in this bill. No one's insisting on confirmation, a vote? None. Then I propose to adopt in the second reading and in general as a law on the amendment of the Civil Code of Ukraine, please vote. [[on the settlement of legal relations between custody and care bodies and natural persons in need of care and care]] [[Registration number 6408]] [[13:42:07]] For 233 Thank you. The law is passed. With the chapter “Other Readings” we have finished, we have finished. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations is being considered, and the bill is being drafted by Zabarski. [[concerning the powers of local public administrations]] [[Registration number 7344]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:42:54]] For a hundred and Offer supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u133	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The proposed bill, prepared in connection with the consideration and adoption of the previous bill, is inextricably linked. And this project is proposed to complement the mandate of local government administrations by addressing the issue of social protection of orphans, children deprived of parental care and their number, as well as by complementing the categories of children in which local administrations exercise their social security powers. Children who are deprived of their parents as a result of their parents ’ death parental rights, parental illness, or other causes have been left without parental care. In order to harmonize the standards of effective legislation and to improve the protection of the personal and property rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care and persons of their number. During the preparation of the project, we worked with the Ministry of the Interior on family, youth, and sports, experts at the secretariat of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy. In accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, the local executive and local self - government authorities are responsible for resolving the issues mentioned. These powers are also defined in article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Convinced that the adoption of this law will allow for the harmonization of the laws of Ukraine, which will help prevent conflicts in legislation and significantly improve the protection of the personal and property rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care and persons of their number. Please support the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. [[concerning the powers of local public administrations]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Gorbatuk Anatoly Alexiyovich, a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Ukrainian national deputies, present! This bill is proposed to complement the mandate of local public administrations to deal with the social protection of orphans, children deprived of parental care, and persons deprived of parental care, as well as to complement the category of children for whom local administrations carry out their social security responsibilities, which will harmonize the standards of current legislation and contribute to improving the protection of the personal and property rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care and persons of their number. The need for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations has arisen in connection with the submission to the Supreme Council of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the settlement of legal relations between custody and care bodies and individuals in need of care and care, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has proposed to identify the authorities responsible for care and care and to extend the category of persons to whom they are appointed. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 19, 2010. However, it did not provide for the necessary agreed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. In view of the impossibility of amending the draft legislation in the course of its preparation for the second reading, taking into account the requirements of part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, the head of the Ukrainian Civil Law Subcommittee on Legal Policy by the Ukrainian National MP Zabarski has submitted a bill proposing to amend article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Local Government Administrations and is in line with the amendments to the Civil Code. The Legal Policy Committee supports the adoption of the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in conclusion of 13. In 112010, he makes separate remarks to the bill and believes that, as a result of the first reading, he can be accepted on the basis of the comments given. After hearing information from the executive branch subcommittee, he found out the position of the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee invited to the meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u136	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u137	After discussing the issue, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending the article of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, submitted by the Zabarsky People's Deputy on the basis of the first reading. [[concerning the powers of local public administrations]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u138	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u139	Thank you. I won't take much time. I took the floor just to say that it's at first sight or at first glance a technical bill, but the content is absolutely correct. When we talk about socially vulnerable categories that should be under the patronage of the state, these are primarily children who are deprived of their families, children who are orphans or deprived of their parental rights. And that's where the function of the state has to be first. If the State is to provide for property rights, these children, as well as the authorities of the State, should in this case have jurisdiction and responsibility to care for these children. So when this rule is in the Child Protection Act, and there is no law on local, state administrations, it is actually the author of the bill that transposes legislation on local government administrations. And I took the floor for that, frankly, I don't understand why we can't accept this bill as a whole. What is the problem if the responsibility of local government administrations is clearly recorded by the care and care organization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u140	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the bill amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. [[concerning the powers of local public administrations]] [[Registration number 7344]] Please vote. [[13:49:54]] For 241 Adopted in the first reading. Well, I guess since there's an observation here of the Chief Science Expert, let's work quickly to the second. And you and I, dear colleagues, we're moving a little faster than we thought. So let's consult, next bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, the break is in 10 minutes, the next bill is 6422, but there's no report, there's representatives from the committee. So let's go, let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait, I understand that everyone's shirt is closer to the body, but we're still looking at the wrong bill. Then I am asking for consideration of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the procedure for certifying ownership of land. Registration number 6422, from the Bevanko Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u142	Excuse me, excuse me. There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:51:30.]] For 206 Offer supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u143	The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee on 16 November of this year considered the proposed draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the procedure for land ownership certification, registration number 6422, as of 20 May 2010, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The result of his consideration is this: The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on March 5, 2009, the Law of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislation on land rights, as well as the order of division and consolidation of land areas, which amended article 126 of the Ukrainian Code of Land as part of the improvement of the procedure, the certification of ownership of land. However, due to the practical implementation of this law, a number of issues have arisen regarding the land ownership process and are not regulated at the legislative level. There's no need to stop at the list of issues, they're technical, and these are basically agreed upon by the committee. So I'm just going to point out that with a view to resolving these issues at the legislative level, this bill is aimed at. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes that the first reading of the project can be based on mandatory comments and suggestions made prior to the second reading. In view of the above, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u144	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Who has the desire to share in the discussion? None. I think we should thank the government for really wanting to perfect one of the most painful issues that we face, including as representatives of the people. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to adopt as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving the procedure for certifying ownership of land]] [[Registration number 6421]] Please vote. [[13:54:16]] For 239. Thank you. The bill was adopted as a basis. We are considering a draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[concerning the reformation and issue of a duplicate permit]] [[Registration number 7187]] There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:54:52]] For 212 Supported. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics, Yakubovich Igor Valentinovich. Please, two minutes. Get ready, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending article 38 of Ukraine's Veterinary Medicine Act has been developed to implement the Ukrainian Act on the Free System of Economic Activities. In general, the bill is aimed at regulating the relationship between the authorities and the operators regarding the granting of permission to conduct: exhibitions, animal contests, fairs, auctions, exhibitions with animals travelling, and the organization of moving zoos. The adoption of the bill will have a positive impact on the episotic well - being of the State. The proposed bill stipulates that the issuing of a permit or duplicate is carried out on a free basis. Since the permit is issued for animal movements, the bill defines the period of validity of the permit – not more than 30 days. The bill also specifies individuals who are involved: legal persons and individuals, entrepreneurs. Please support the bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A very important bill is the amendments to article 38 on veterinary medicine, since the entire position of the project is aimed at regulating the relationship between the authorities and the operators regarding the granting of permits for exhibitions, animal competitions, fairs, auctions, exhibitions with animals travelling, and the organization of moving zoos. The adoption of this bill will ensure that laws are mutually compatible and that the legal provisions can be regulated in the context of the measures taken. The issue of a permit, its transformation, the issuance of a duplicate, the revocation of a permit is carried out free of charge by the public authorities of veterinary medicine. This was the will and national deputies of the committee within the framework of the powers given to them by the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. The bill also defines the time limit for granting a permit not more than 30 days to issue the application. The draft law also deals with the question of determining the grounds for the transformation and issuance of a duplicate permit for the implementation of the animal involvement measures set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. The committee unanimously supported the bill and suggested that it be considered at the first reading session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m0.u148	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? None. We'll vote. But before that, I would really like to pay attention to the vigilance in drafting the bills. Because there are provisions in the bill that are not in the text of the law, but they are in the comparative table. That is why I would ask the committee if they were preparing, if not for this, we could accept it as a law as a whole. So I would ask the committee to solve this question anyway, because for us, the body of the text is what the law says, not a comparative table. And I think what the authors wanted to put into law, they also put in a comparative table. So please see if we can prepare for the second reading. I am voting on Bill 7187, which is the draft law amending article 38 of the Law on Veterinary Medicine on the adoption of it as a basis in the first reading. [[concerning the reformation and issue of a duplicate permit]] Please vote. [[13:59:38]] For 233 Thank you. The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues! There's one more minute before the break. And we can continue by 15. And you could keep going, but. We're working hard with you anyway. So let me say that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Let's get back to work at 4:00.
