ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! I would like to ask the national deputies who have come to this meeting to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:34]] There are 279 national deputies registered in the hall. As far as I'm concerned, some other factions are holding meetings, so I'd like to invite them into the session room while we have time to announce the parliamentary requests and the parliamentary appeals. I inform you, fellow Members, that according to article 25 of the Rules, Friday is 30 minutes to announce requests. So I'm announcing the questions that have come and are prepared. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Valerija Beviz to the President of Ukraine on the obvious signs of abuse of power and corruption in the actions of the head of the Brussels District State Administration of the Zitomir Region of Viktor Grebenik, as well as the raiding of land by him, resulting in numerous violations of the constitutional rights of citizens of the Brusilov region. Dear colleagues, you know the procedure for referral to the President of the parliamentary inquiry. I would like to vote in favour of this request from the People's Deputy Valery Behwazza. Please vote. [[10:03:02]] For-174 But in order to send the President, we need the support of most of the Supreme Council. That's why I'm asking for the request of the People's Deputy Valery Behwaiz. Please vote. [[10:03:31]] For 202 Request not supported. People's MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I think this is how we approach the presidents. I'm going to read about how all the national MPs are going to register. Yes, please, Sergey Efraemov, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u2	Dear Nikolai Vladimirovich, I would like you to explain. There's not one faction in the room. What's that? Is this a demarche, or is this a deliberate breakdown of today's meeting, given that we made a decision in good faith yesterday, and all our deputies who went to executive work have come to a standstill? Is that why our colleagues are trying to disrupt the meeting in the Supreme Council today? If that's the case, then let's make an appropriate statement as a representative of this faction, we'll stop working today, we won't mix people up, and when we get organized, new MPs come in, we'll start working. Otherwise, it looks very unbecoming on the part of the BUIT faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform Alexander Sergiyyovich and the national MPs about the organizational moment, because the faction meeting is not yet over. I think we should inform the faction's leadership that at 10 a.m. we're starting work and no one's waiting for the faction to finish its meeting. But I don't see any political motives here. As soon as the faction leaders show up, they can be further informed, and so far, we'll continue to work, if you don't mind, Your Honor, I'll read these questions now, and we'll return to the presidential questions when we're in full stock so that our colleagues' serious proposals don't go away, so to speak, because we have 290 people's deputies registered for the moment. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the President of Ukraine on the necessity of lifting or suspending Presidential Decree No.155/2010 on the creation of the National Natural Park "Lowernosulski" as one that was adopted despite the categorical disagreement between the territorial communities of Orzické, Semenowski, Globinsky, Poltava, Czernobaiowski, Cherkaske, and the current legislation of Ukraine. Panels of People's Deputies to the President of Ukraine on non-compliance with the laws and Constitution of Ukraine with the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 24 February 2010 on measures for the implementation of State policy on civil matters and 24 February 2010 on ensuring the performance of the functions of registration of natural persons. [[G.I.G. and others. Total 4 deputies]] Alexia ZURAVKA to the President of Ukraine on the unconstitutionality of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 21 May 2007 on the appointment of the head of the Zaporozian Court of Appeal. Other questions, not to the President of Ukraine. Andrija PORTNOVA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, for the transfer of the functions of the Government responsible for anticorruption policy to the Ministry of Justice in connection with its ineffective activity. ŠAROVA Igora to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the implementation of the State Programme for Building Support and Housing, as well as the use of funds to stimulate housing. ŠAROVA Igora to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to create an effective system of refinishing credit unions. Valery BEWZA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the Blackwater Disaster, the Attorney-General on the use of immediate measures to prevent negative consequences for residents of the city of Winnitsky district and the environment in connection with the functioning of the area of the designated open-air public limited-stock company "Ginning Career" and the inaction of the Ginwan City Authority in resolving the issue. Vladimir DANILENA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the abuse of office, the overstatement of official authority by the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Sumskia region in the distribution of apartments acquired by the State Mortgage Office, which resulted in a violation of the housing rights of pensioners and veterans of internal affairs. Mr. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the violation of the rights of residents of the Suma region in the provision of diagnostic medical services and the non-application of measures to address the situation in the Suma region with clinical diagnostic facilities of the Ministry of Health. Edward PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Finance, the State Road Service, the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, the Montenegrin District Ministry of Transport and Communications regarding the non-admission of an extraordinary situation in the direction of the town of Nizhin Chernigiv region, the need to carry out its immediate capital repair and the granting of a targeted subsidy from the State budget of 2 million,754,000 dollars. MICHELLE JANKOVSKI to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Markets in Financial Services, the Head of the State Securities Commission, and the Stock Market to support the appeal of voters of the Open Shareholders Association Concern Styrol, members of the cooperative pension fund. Edward PRUTNIK to the State Road Service, the Montenegrin District Administration, the Chernigian Road Service, the Chernigiv Region Road Service, on the collective appeal of residents of the city of Borzna to take steps to build an asphalt road on Red Hutir Street, where people are mostly elderly, and on the appeal of Fedor Kiyasch about the devastating impact of transit road transport on residential buildings in the village of High Borznian district of Chernigiv. Mikoli Sherschun to the president of the National Radio Company for the improvement of radio communication in the Zarican district of the Plain region. MICILI JANKOVSKI to the National Bank of Ukraine to support the call of voters to the public equity company SEB Bank. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to provide for the needs of citizens in preschool institutions. THE OLEGO ZARUBINE to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism on the effectiveness of State policy in stimulating domestic film production. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, the Attorney - General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Head for the protection of the rights of residents of the Odessa family and for the accountability of those who violate them. Helen ŠUSTIK to the National Bank of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at eliminating the illegality of closed stockholding companies TOP Bank. Mr. Paul TUTCHANA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, prosecutor of the city of Kiev, for the violation of the copyright of the record company Atlantic. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights of employees of the Cuban Customs to work, the labour law, the requirements of the Ukrainian Professional Associations Act, their rights and guarantees of activity, as a result of the issuance by the Government Customs Service of Ukraine of the decrees of 25 February 2010 on the elimination of the customs authority and on the creation of the customs authority and customs posts, the enforcement of the constitutional rights of the labour collective customs, the use of appropriate measures to respond to violations of current legislation. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of non-earmarked use of budgetary resources, the abuse of office, the acquisition of authority, the service negligence of the former Director-General of the National Metrology Institute of Metrology of Gorislav Sidorenka, which has caused damage to the State on a particularly large scale and may lead to the destruction of the national ethals held in the institution and is the national value of the Ukrainian State, the resolution of the matter of criminal offence and the prosecution of the guilty. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Hmeljna district law enforcement authorities in response to repeated criminal acts committed against the village of Lisov Greenitsi, the Secretary of the Hmeljnické Paradise Company of Ukraine, Eugene Grizzina, which led to an attack on his life. [[SIMONENEKA, ALEXIEVA, MATWEYEVA]] Valerija BARANOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of legislation in the conduct of a pretrial investigation by members of the Lozov City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region. Vladimir CARPUCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the violation of the language of the lease agreement of the commercial and manufacturing base at the following address: Industrial Street, 7 cities of Nova Kahouka in the Hersonian Region by the renter of the Open Shareholder Company "Hersonobrad" and the removal of violations of current legislation. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of investors of the Golden Runo housing complex in Odessa. To the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vladimir JAVORI, on the intention of the Kyiv City Council, to build several residential buildings in the former Radical chemical plant, which would threaten the lives of the inhabitants, since the toxicity of the area could be compared to that of the Chernobyl area. To the Attorney General of Ukraine for illegal construction and assembly work in the territory of the National Kyiv-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, which creates an unfavourable environment for the preservation of a unique monument of world importance. MIKOLI TOMENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of compliance with the “Miron bird factory” Association for Environmental Protection and the prevention of construction, contrary to the decision of the territorial community, a waste disposal site in the village of Liplave in the region of Cherkas region. Mr. Oleg TYCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of constitutional rights for the use of the forest residents of the village of Sukhólucz in the region of Kyiv. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the murder of the resident of Drogobic of the district of Krzystina Delinkovic. JOURNEY SERBIN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unobjective investigation of the death of the teenage Hope of Philippec. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration to ensure the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 22 February 2008, "On the approval of the State Target Programme for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine ", taking into account the changes made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 22 July 2009, in the allocation of funds for the restoration and rehabilitation of the Kyiv Academy of Operatives. Kseniya LAPINOWA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the Solomon District in Kiev, State Administration for Information. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the city’s Kiev head on urgent measures to prepare for the spring flood in Kiev. Alexia KOSTUSJEVA to Odessa City Head on providing Odessa City Head with information on sources of funding for external advertising on opening the mayor's aid service and offices "Eduard Gurvica's Social Reception Block". Alexia KOSTUSJEVA to Odessa City Head on providing Odessa City Head with information on sources of funding for external advertising on opening the mayor's aid service and offices "Eduard Gurvica's Social Reception Block". Dear colleagues, as agreed, we return to the requests of the President of Ukraine. We voted on the request of Valery Beviz, and if there is any insistence, we will return to the end. I now ask for the support of Sergey Gordienck's request to the President of Ukraine for the necessity of cancelling or suspending the President's decree on the creation of the National Natural Park of Lower Sullian. Please vote in favour. [[10:16:52]] For-195 Request supported. And now we have to vote in favour of sending a request. I'd like to vote in favour of sending a request from national deputy Sergei Gordijenko. [[10:17:19]] For 193 I am asking the President of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of Giga and others to vote on the non-compliance of laws and the Constitution of Ukraine with the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations on measures to implement the State's civil policy. Please vote in favour, in favour. [[10:17:55]] For-198 Request supported. Please vote in favour of sending to the President of Ukraine a request from the People's Deputies of Gigi and others. Here comes the vote. [[10:18:15]] For 199 Request not sent. And the final request to President Alexia Zhuravek for the unconstitutionality of the decree on the appointment of the head of the Zaporozian Court of Appeal. Please vote in favour. [[10:18:45.]] For 199 Now for the request of the National MP, Alexia Zuravko. Please vote. [[10:19:07]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I understand that the situation does not need to be put back in place, because due to the circumstances that we have now, the Parliamentary Coalition will not be able to mobilise 226. So let's move on. Dear colleagues, let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, as well as with the protocol of the Assemblys of the Party of the Regions' Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 11 March 2010, I report that the head of the delegation of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Efraemov Aleksandra Sergiyovich. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules, we have here messages and extracts from the protocol where the decision is properly drawn up. Dear colleagues, we have a visiting agenda today that has been approved and must be implemented today. Therefore, I am announcing a draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Executive Government of Georgia and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the joint exploitation of the rail ferry between the ports of Varna, Poti/Batumi and Illichivsk Bill No.0160. [[Republic of ……]] [[Georgia]] [[Ukraine]] The Deputy Foreign Minister, Constantine Petrovich Elisiev, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important meeting. Your attention is given to the draft Act of Ukraine on Denunciation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Executive Authority of Georgia and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the joint operation of the rail ferry between the ports of Varna, Poti, Batumi and Ilchiyivsk. This bill was designed to eliminate existing contradictions in rail transport in the Black Sea region and to ensure Ukraine's national economic interests. The relevance of the denunciation of this agreement, which was signed in 1999, is due to the fact that in its implementation over the past two years, the Ukrainian company Ukrferija, which has the status of a national carrier and an enterprise of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet, has developed significant differences in terms of, firstly, that this agreement was practically copied from a similar document of Soviet times and therefore did not take into account the existing specificities of market relations in the field of rail transport. According to the content of the current agreement, the parties have to carry out an equal number of flights during the calendar year, which was quite real at the time of signing the document. But the Bulgarian side, referring to the formal position of the treaty at this stage, demands a redistribution to its benefit of the freight flows that have been worked out by the Ukrainian side. I mean, a Ukrainian carrier that costs a lot to manage the maintenance and modernization of a porous line should give the Bulgarian side 50 percent of its cargo volume along the Illysiowsky-Poth-Batumi line. Moreover, after the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet was privatized in 2008, the new owner of the company launched an aggressive campaign to redistribute shipping markets for its benefit, manipulating the provisions of the agreement. What is it? First of all, the Bulgarian side actually destroyed the existing order of calculations between the parties. On a one-sided basis, without informing the Ukrainian side, without any agreement in May 2009, they denounced the instructions that set out the order of the shipments. So it was a violation of article 15 of the tripartite agreement. Secondly, the Bulgarian company ignored the position of article 13 of the agreement, which envisions the execution of the services under agreed tariffs, and a campaign from the redistribution of the market was launched on the way to dumping. So we're dealing with unfair competition. Because even more complicated, the Bulgarian side around the Ukrainian side sent Georgia a separate bilateral agreement that it wants to make without Ukraine – and thus remove Ukraine from the freight market. Thus today, the actions of the Bulgarian side pose a real threat to Ukraine’s national and economic interests. I want to point out that the Ukrainian side, according to the terms of the agreement, has taken all possible measures to fix it. There were meetings at the level of the relevant companies, meetings at the level of ministries and departments, including transport ministries, were sent by diplomatic channels. Sadly, all these measures did not produce results. Moreover, the Bulgarian side is trying to force us to accept their unjust conditions. And the question is, what happens after the agreement's denunciation or in the event of the agreement's denunciation? In the event of a denunciation of the agreement, our cooperation on the freight line will not be suspended, for today we have bilateral agreements, both with the Bulgarian side and with Georgia. On the basis of these bilateral agreements, therefore, it is entirely possible for us to do all the appropriate work in this area. It should also be noted that today's issue has been agreed upon without notice by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, the State Customs Service, the State Border Service, are the relevant conclusions of the Antimonopoly Committee. Thus, the adoption of the law under discussion today will enable Ukrainian companies in their relations with their Bulgarian counterparts to move to exclusive market relations and prevent the state from being involved in commercial disputes and to secure its national economic interests. With that in mind, we propose to support the adoption of the bill. And thank you for your attention, I will be ready to answer your possible questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the question is delicate and difficult. Please sign up for a question to Constantine Petrovich. Please, stay. Please explain who would like to ask a question. People's Deputies Evening. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u6	Evening, Party of Regions. Constantine Petrovich, please tell me you've all set out nicely why Kerch's porous transport is not working today. Port Kerch – port Varna? That's the first one. Why is the Bulgarian side today categorically opposed to developing other ferry transports with the same Georgia? At the same time, the Bulgarian side is expanding its relations with the Russian Federation on porous transports between Bulgaria and the Russian Federation. What does this have to do with anything? Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u7	I thank you for asking. On the first question about the functioning of the port of Kerch and Poti, the corresponding agreements are signed, and now, as I understand it, there is a question concerning the signing of certain technical documents that regulate the implementation of the agreement. As far as the Bulgarian side is concerned, she is really trying to push us out of this market and make separate bilateral agreements with the Georgian side. And so, by denunciation of this tripartite agreement, we can ensure the normal implementation of bilateral agreements with both Georgia and Bulgaria. Today, we have four corresponding agreements with Georgia in the field of freight transport and four agreements with Bulgaria. So the legislative field completely allows us to make business contacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u8	Valerius Bondik, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u9	Dear Constantine Petrovich, of course, I think, like my colleagues, we will support this draft decision, because it is in the interest of the international cooperation of our state with other states, in favour of industrial cooperation in the field of transport, but I have such a question for you, because it is a matter of concern to my party organization, the White House. Please tell me. Well, since you're the first MPS representative in this reporting period, I'm going to ask you, what will the MCC do with the new government to review that disgraceful international judgment on Snake Island? Because that's what's bothering our citizens, and I'd like to know your position as an international. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. Well, unfortunately, it has no direct bearing on the subject of discussion, but as a lawyer, I'll tell you that the ruling of the International Court of Justice is mandatory for execution, and as a State that is a member of the United Nations and has signed a charter, we will have to comply with this decision of the United Nations International Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u11	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski. Yuri Bogdanovich, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u12	I would like to say right away that I am ready to support this bill, and I think that the situation around this porous transport is a beautiful illustration of how it works, as it were, in paws, the "community" of the interests of Ukraine and Russia and what the role of some countries in this. However, I have a very different, formal question: please tell me, what about the 105th article of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which says that this bill, introduced by the previous government, does not exist as a bill yesterday, has been automatically revoked? We will continue to ignore the law, I stress, the Rules of Procedure Act and demonstrate and demonstrate to all Ukraine that laws are not written for the Supreme Council and for the governing coalition. Will We Obedience to the Law? And let's say, unfortunately, this bill has to be reintroduced by a new government to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u13	I don't think that's Constantine Petrovic's question. Here yesterday, the Chief of the Supreme Council had a discussion, and it was decided that the issue of ratification today was included. And I understand that as of today, there's a procedure for revoking all government bills and confirming or not confirming the new government that took an oath yesterday. That's why I understand that this is the last bill we are considering in terms of the importance of the bill and at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to consider it. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u14	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Constantine Petrovich, I certainly want to thank you for your state position in this matter. I don't know why Ukraine has endured so long. Because here we go, I see, the cynical abuse of the Bulgarian side. And I would like to ask you, how does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plan to react to Georgia's seemingly unfriendly actions? I guess it's not friendly. I'd like the M.E.S. to respond to that. Because when 7 percent of the truck only goes from Varna to Georgia and Ilciwska to 90 percent, they take over, they break the deal that's made. This is clearly called unfriendly action. Including Georgia. We're not used to Georgians turning their backs on us like that. So can we call these things our names? And let the MCS react in some way, warns that you can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u15	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u16	I thank you for your questions and thank you for your support. Answering your first question, MSS. Why it took so long. The MIP tried to use all the possibilities to settle the issue in a civilized legal way under the agreement. So we used all the tools, unfortunately we didn't, we had to take decisive action, that's the first. As far as the Georgian side is concerned, I'll tell you that the Georgian side has responded positively to our intention to denounce the agreement. As for your observation, we are about to hold a meeting of the Ukrainian-Georgian Inter-Governmental Commission. We will normally discuss this in a friendly tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u17	Thank you, Constantine Petrovich, no further questions. I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Chernobyl, to take the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u18	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed the draft law on ratification in very detail. We have fully studied related documents and have taken a clear conclusion that this treaty must be ratified, that ratification is beneficial for Ukraine and that we simply need a tripartite treaty today. There are all the relevant conclusions that are positive for the Main Scientific and Expert Committee and the interested parties and the committees of the Supreme Council. I think it's the first denunciation or ratification project that's been made without breaking the rules and therefore there's no warning from the regulatory committee. Now let's talk briefly about the point of the matter. When the agreement was concluded and the first years it worked, it was done correctly by all sides and was also convenient to the Ukrainian side. First, at the time, as well as the Ukrainian side is represented by the state company Ukrferi and the Bulgarian side represented the state-owned company of the Bulgarian Navy. Then there were some changes, and unlike Ukraine, the company was privatized, and the company became completely unfriendly, not competitive and not market-based. In addition, there has been a complete change in the transport situation, which has led to a certain gnarl in the direction between the Ukrainian-Bulgarian and the Ukrainian-Georgian transports. According to the old agreement, there were problems when we were actually supposed to give our right to those transports, switch them in the direction of Ukraine – Illyivsk – Potina, Illyjivsk – Varna Poti and other similar methods, i.e. we actually lost our cargo with Georgia. In terms of the development of the second transport corridor, in terms of further development, which today is called the “second silk road”, we have actually gone beyond the possibility of normal competition development. In addition, according to a certain reading of this and still in force agreement, we were blocked, as asked by fellow national deputies, the development of new transport corridors, water transport corridors, for example, from Kerchi and other ports in Ukraine. So today, economically, the denunciation of this agreement is absolutely necessary. As far as legal conditions are concerned. The agreement was made with Bulgaria and Georgia at the time that Bulgaria was represented in the Agreement when it was implemented by a state company. Today, when there is a private company, legal circumstances change. In parallel, we have concluded bilateral agreements between Ukraine and Bulgaria, and Ukraine and Georgia, which fully cover these legal and technical aspects of the functioning of water transport. Therefore, the denunciation of the agreement will not result in a legal vacuum. Moreover, the denunciation of the agreement cannot have a negative impact on Ukraine’s European integration because it does not fall within the scope of projects that are defined as priority, as required to carry out the sphere of European relations. It's an anti-market deal. So today it does not match, even with the basic obligations that we have made in joining the WTO. It doesn't spoil, it doesn't make our relationship with Bulgaria worse. Because, of course, there is a certain position to support your private business. But today it's about a private Bulgarian campaign that as a result won't be able to deamp and monopolize the market by captivating the Ukrainian side. So I have a request that today, really, we unite around a very important issue for Ukraine, for our shipping, which will really open up, unlock the possibility of further expansion of our transport in the Black Sea, will allow us to prove that we are really a maritime state. And so I ask that we unite, and together all the factions have voted for the denunciation of this agreement. Once again, this is the rare case, when we don't create a legal legal vacuum by denunciation, we already have its filling absolutely adequate and we simply need to remove the barrier to the extent that other agreements are in place, which is: first, not the roars, second, legally inconvenient and economically inconvenient to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u19	Thank you, Taras Viacheslavovich. Will there be questions before the report? None. Then I would like to sign up for the discussion. Please register with all representatives of factions and national MPs. Please show me. May I have the floor of National Deputy Yuri Karmazin, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I thank both Taras Viacheslavovich and Constantine Petrovich for their excellent understanding of this matter. I want to say that this is the first example of us being offered to denounce a deal that Ukraine suffers, suffers materially, suffers politically, wipes feet of Ukraine, and lets call things by our names. Why? Because this load is now going in the direction of Ukraine-Georgia and Bulgaria-Georgia ratio of 92.2 percent to 7.8 percent, and the Bulgarian side will receive revenue from transporting the cargo base of the Ukrainian side. It is asked, and how is this so, and what is our joint action, the reconciliation, which benefits Ukraine? And the benefit of Ukraine is that when Ukraine asked the question that let's open the Kerch-Poti Ukrainian line, or Kerch-Caucus, the Bulgarian side denied it. Next. We were told that owners had changed and so on. We have a covenant before us, it is given to us, there are clearly broken provisions of articles 7 and 13 of the tripartite covenant. In my question I asked the deputy foreign minister, does he not consider the actions of the Georgian side to be double-text? He, as a diplomat, replied that they would agree. And I think we need to react now. And I'm talking from this high rostrum and to the Ambassador of Georgia in Ukraine, Mr. Grigor Katamadze, that this is not a good relationship between neighbors when these things happen. I want to tell you that Bulgarians are now unilaterally giving their companies a 10 percent discount on existing tariffs for transporting cargo in the direction of the Illyrian Pot. That is, Article 13 of the Tripartite Agreement is violated. Thus it seems that the port of Ilchivsk is our Ukrainian port as if it were their stepfather. Obviously this has to be stopped, obviously it has to be stopped. And that's why this deal has to be denounced. I really see that all the services and services have agreed, agreed to this bill. And I would like to call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to denounce other agreements that are harmful to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u21	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. National MP Vladimir Gerasimchuk, Lithuanian Block faction. Turn the microphone on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u22	I agree that the national interests of Ukraine must certainly be protected. But I would like to make my warning. Nevertheless, we do have a signed agreement with one of the countries members of the European Union. And the denunciation of this agreement -- we can do it quickly, but denunciation of this agreement can also have a negative impact on the image of Ukraine as a transit state. What's more, if we talk about Bulgaria being a member of the European Union, we can also talk about what we can spend on developing our transit capacities. What's more, a new Cabinet of Ministers is being formed. The bill was prepared by the previous Cabinet of Ministers, perhaps there is another point. I don't know what position the Ministry of Transport is now. I think it's necessary, perhaps, to delay, to listen to the position of the Ministry of Transport now, and then to consider the matter essentially. And some committees have not yet been considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u23	Thank you. National deputy Kruglov Mikola Petrovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I mean, it's all like the reporter says, but a little bit wrong. Today, this is a direct lobbying of a commercial structure in the form of protection of state interests. First. On the transport committee that was supposed to consider this situation, this project was not even out of the question. There's absolutely no economy in this project. So to say that someone is obstructing, giving, or, as we say, doing bad things to Ukraine today is totally wrong. We need to view this tripartite agreement as a balance of freight. And until experts, which today neither automobiles nor railways have concluded, talk about denunciation today, that is to say for the benefit of this person who has rented two state ferryes and works for today. The family of this man Kurland. So let's be honest. Let's take this bill, consider the order of it, and only then will we have to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u25	Thank you. Vladimir the Final, faction of the region. There's no such thing?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I, since there have been serious comments and warnings here, I'd like to say that maybe Constantine Petrovich, you have the right to leave the place if you respond to the comments of the national MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u27	I am truly grateful for this discussion, deeply grateful for the talks, and especially for the support. Very short. First. The question was whether our relationship with Bulgaria, as a member of the European Union, would not break the balance of interests? I want to give you an expert report. We held separate consultations, both with Brussels and with the Bulgarian side. Overall conclusion: no relation to Euro-integration issues – Bulgaria in the EU – has this issue. This question is suggested by them in either a bilateral or a tripartite context. Therefore, no impact on our relationship either with the EU or with Bulgaria as a state will. Secondly, I would like to point out that there are all the relevant conclusions and all the relevant points that have been expressed not only by ministries and departments, but also by the Antimonopoly Committee, Ukrfervia, is such a company Plaske, that is, a detailed study of all, not only the political, but also the legal aspects of the issue. And the general conclusion is that, in fact, this agreement does not suit our economic interests, we need to protect them. And there's no lobbying of any structure. It is only about lobbying the national interests of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u28	Taras Viacheslavovich, don't you insist from the committee? Taras Vjačeslavovich, do you not insist from the committee on the closing word? Please, it's Chernobyl's microphone, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I just want to point out that we were, in fact, interested in having the Transport Committee consider it. Sadly, though, some problems have arisen either with a quorum or something. The Transport Committee doesn't get together that often. And there have been several times when representatives, particularly the Foreign Ministry, have come to the Supreme Council specifically so that they can participate in the Transport Committee. [[At the time, even I made some of them pass]] But the question was never considered, I think, because of the absence of a quorum. Well, we can't wait forever. The problem is that we need to consider the matter. The spring season is now beginning to recommence transport contracts. Well, we should finally think about ports like Kerch, who are now suffocating, who need to be able to open normal transport. We're not driven by a market deal. The other party was in complete violation of the requirements of the treaty. And in this situation, we will be playing for one private company in Ukraine -- Plasco -- which today has some arrangements with a private company in Bulgaria called BMF. Well, that would be, I think, an unstated position. I think we should work on this document today, finally, to accept the denunciation. Talk about what we can call it off, bring it up in some new edition. There can be no new denunciation. There may be a new revision of ratification when comments are made, warnings. In the event of denunciation, we either denunciation or not. So we either admit that we're willing to work in the system when we give the Bulgarian side our transportation rights, when we refuse to develop Kerch, we refuse to develop Santa Claus, other ports. I mean, I don't understand the logic of not making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since the matter has been considered in full procedure, we are obliged to make decisions, so historically I will say that we have a transport committee in this session, as far as I am concerned, that I have not yet met. So unfortunately, we can't depend on when the committee comes together. That's why I'm betting. Yes, I'm informing you that the committee offered to support, the scientific and expert board offered to support the denunciation. I put to the vote a draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the executive authority of Georgia and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a joint operation of the rail ferry between the ports of Varna, Poti/Batumi and Ilchivsk, registration number 0160, to be voted on. [[Republic of ……]] [[Georgia]] [[Ukraine]] Please vote. [[10:49:40]] For 169 The decision is not taken. I'm announcing a draft regulation on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u31	Please use fractions: The Party of Regions is 4, the House of July Timoshenko is 110, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense is 29, the Communists are 25, the Block of Lithuania is zero, the non-factional is one. I think that this question may arise when the new government considers it and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will either re-apply, or it will feel that no such denunciation is necessary. I would like to announce a draft resolution on Parliamentary hearings on "Reforming Ukrainian legislation on local elections for the benefit of territorial communities". Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Bilozoz Oksana Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u32	Oksana Bilozer, "Our Ukraine" faction, the All-Ukrainian Union of Women Members of All Levels. Greetings, Your Honor! Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! An extremely important decision is now being made, “To hold parliamentary hearings on reforming Ukraine's legislation on local elections for the benefit of territorial communities”. I would like to briefly remind our audiences and audiences that in April 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine changed the system for the election of local council deputies, and the deputies began to go after the election lists of candidates from political parties and election blocs of political parties. The elections for the new system took place in March 2006, and unfortunately, all those positive expectations that relied on a change in legislation in this area failed to justify their trust, little had caused irreparable damage to the development of local self - government. Today, both Ukrainian voters and representatives of local councils are opposed to such a system, regardless of their party affiliation. In fact, those who are deprived of the right to develop their territorial communities are powerful personalities, leaders of strong territorial public movements, and public organizations. I would like to point out that the problem has caused enormous turmoil in Ukrainian society, and even if we are to make it public and not culinary, it is imperative that we conduct these parliamentary hearings. I would like to point out that on February 3, Kiev had its first session of the National Congress of Local Self - Government, which had received a request to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve, in fact, Ukraine’s legislation on local elections. Representatives of local self-governance of all levels, which, by the way, were chosen by the party list system, believe that the most favourable for the election of rural MPs, the city councils, is the majority electoral system. [[of the village]] And I would like to quote how they address us: “It is she who allows the MP to be responsible to the electorate, to establish close ties between them, to exercise parliamentary powers in the interests of the territorial communities, not corporate groups. After the Supreme Council's decision to hold the local elections on May 30th, we have a very strong negative social opinion, which is actually a negative attitude towards this process of parliament. And today, the key problem for all of us is that there is no single solution -- which election system to propose. And so my proposal is, first of all, to accept the changes to legislation and to invite our colleagues from the local self-government, from the Central Electoral Commission, all the political parties represented in Parliament, the non-parliamentary parties solely to listen to their opinions. And in my position, let's say it's the opinion of the local community that should be decisive for the Supreme Council in adopting the law. That's why I'm asking you to accept. There's only one explanation. I filed a motion for a ruling before the Parliament on February 18th and suggested a real date for these hearings on March 17th. Of course, as we consider it late today, it is not possible to be attached to this date. I propose we hold these elections. These parliamentary hearings will be held in April-month. And I think the committee will offer us an appropriate date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Will there be questions for the initiator? No questions? Yes. Please sign in. Please. National Deputy Valeriy Baranov, “Block of Lithuania”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I would like to support my colleague, Oksana Bilozir, because today there is probably no problem more important than the holding of local elections. We have all come to believe that the party system that was created before us has hardened local self-government, led to constant scandals and prevented territorial communities from developing. But before these hearings, we must probably meet with the faction leaders and identify the key points and the most important points: how we will conduct these elections: on the majority system, either as a compromise option or in some other way. Since all of our presidential candidates were solely in favour of the development of local self-government and the return to the majority system, I am convinced that this is exactly what we will do together. Therefore, I ask you to support the initiative of our colleague and to vote in favour of the hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u35	I understand that there was support here, so Oksani Volodymyrni doesn't have to answer. National Deputy Andrew Pavlovski, Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u36	Mrs. Oksana, of course local self-government, including the order of elections, needs to be reformed, but let's remember what made the system that exists now. Because local business princes simply bought up wholesale and split major districts, and the example of Kiev is therefore very vivid when Greece conquers ideologists. Then there'll be no teachers, no doctors, no intellectuals, no workers, no local oligarchs, no princes, you want to think about it or you need to think about it and you can create some mixed system, you can apply an open election system to the local authorities. Let the village councils remain major, but district councils can try to apply the open electoral system. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u37	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u38	Thank you. You know, there must be something negative in every positive phenomenon, but what I did was read only the address of the national convention. I don't offer my opinion today, and just because different thoughts are heard, it gives us reason for public discussion of this problem, it can't solve the culinary problem. And I'm deeply convinced that the working group that was already set up in Parliament is gathering proposals. We will hear at parliamentary hearings the very position of local councils, and I am convinced that then we will do it in the eyes of the whole society, with the participation of the whole society, the right and constructive approach, and we will choose a system that is desirable and acceptable to our society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mrs. Oksana, the Supreme Council, by taking a decision on recognition in such a way that she lost the validity of the decision on the appointment of the February 16 elections, decided to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government with immediate proposals for the change of the electoral system in the local elections. Unfortunately, even such intellectual newspapers, as we say, “The Mirror of the Week”, have not yet seen this second point, that the Supreme Council has already shown political will and said that the approach and electoral system should be changed. Because of this, don't you know, or can't you tell me how ready the Supreme Council Committee is on state-building issues and local self-government for such proposals and certainly to support them? I support your hearing initiative, but whether you know it or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. Well, I think the powerful testimony that we are already doing this work is that there are already two bills of the people's deputies in the agenda of the Supreme Council that we're going to be looking at, that is, work is already under way. As for the fresh one, my determination, it was not because there was no quorum, but the committee secretariat recommended to the deputies and, by the way, those deputies who were present at that meeting, who did not form the quorum, expressed a position to support my decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u42	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u43	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. I'd like to come to you, Mrs. Oksano, with an offer. The point is that many complaints about the work of members of the local councils are that they have become entangled in executive power as deputies. In Kiev, in particular, all the deputies, virtually all the deputies of the city’s Kiev head, are members of the Kiev City Council. In the same way, district government officials work for district councils and district councils. Such mixing of two branches of authority, executive and actually representative, which can be called local and legislative, has led to the fact that the same ones who form the order of activities of the executive organs actually work in them, and there's basic corruption, because there the land divides and so on. So how would we look at this issue at the same time into the constituency of electoral legislation and the legislative framework on the status of local councils, rural, rural, urban heads would be much more beneficial. Maybe we'll complete it, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u44	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u46	Please enable the MP to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u47	Maybe we'll even add a name there, make a few words about the status of the deputies of the local councils, and then it'll be more complex and more beneficial for these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u48	Thank you. A very constructive offer. And you see, we don't yet hold parliamentary hearings, but how many negative moments do we have in our simple discussion? So I support every position and it is important that it be discussed and resolved in a public, wide-ranging parliamentary hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u49	Thank you, Oksana Volodymyr. The questions are over. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u51	From the committee information on the position of the committee and whether or not they considered it. Because it was about the committee whether or not it had considered it. I invite you to join Sergey Petrovich Podgorny, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u52	Honourable Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, was commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council on the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to review the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on “Reforming Ukraine's Legislation on Local Elections in the Interest of Territorial Communities” submitted to Parliament by Ukrainian National MP Oksana Biozoz. [[Registration number 6092]] [[of 18.02.2010]] National MPs of Ukraine, members of the committee are familiar with the draft decree to be held on 17 March 2010 in the form of a broad public debate in the form of parliamentary hearings, "The ways of reforming Ukraine's legislation on local elections for the benefit of territorial communities". We inform you that the Committee has also come to the conclusion of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a draft decree stating that it has been drawn up by the author without complying with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In particular, in accordance with part one of article 234 of the Rules, a proposal for parliamentary hearings may be made by a national deputy in the form of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not on its own initiative, but on the basis of a decision taken by the committee on the matter. In reviewing the draft rulings, members of the committee took into account the rules of part three of article 234 of the Rules, according to which decisions on the subject, day and time of parliamentary hearings were taken by the Supreme Council no later than 30 days before they were held. In view of this, the committee made proposals on the appropriateness of holding such parliamentary hearings in the third decade of April 2010. But all of this was prior to the so - called committee consultations. Unfortunately, as the author of the bill, she actually said that the committee couldn't get together twice to be a quorum, so it's planned to be discussed on the committee's next Wednesday, which is March 17, exactly. [[There are different reasons.]] And, taking all those regulatory rules into account, the committee is going to propose that we actually have these parliamentary hearings, but given that we have plenary sessions in just two weeks, we can vote on the date somewhere in the beginning of May, or from the middle even May. I would also like to add that a working group was actually established in the Supreme Council, headed by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Lavrinovich. Sadly, she has not yet done the tasks she has set. The Supreme Council made the proposal, although the deadlines were literally before the beginning of March, so it is difficult for the committee today to accept some more detailed things. What I want to add is that, in fact, we now have several drafts in the Supreme Council that apply to the electoral system of the local councils, as well as to rural, rural, urban heads. There is a bill by the author of Deputy Kaskov, there is a bill by Kirilenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich and other deputies, and there is a bill by the MP Orobec Lesi Jurijovni and other bills. [[2270-2]] [[It's 5415.]] [[5426]] There was President Yushchenk's fourth bill, but given that there is another president, that bill has been called off. So the committee was looking at all these bills, and we have, if you remember, just yesterday in order to consider these issues. I don't understand why we need to take these questions off the table today. If they were to be considered, maybe some more or less conceptual thing would have been adopted. I would also like to add that the committee has asked several times at its meeting to make an offer. But there were some suggestions that came to the Conciliation Council, to address the Head of the Supreme Council, really, to hold consultations at the level of faction leaders, to determine which concept of local elections is more or less acceptable today in the political environment. That is why I believe that this bill is not to be voted on today. After consideration by his committee and another date, he made a specific decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Will there be questions for a coconspirator? No, it's not. Please excuse me, Yuri Anatolyevich, you insist, right? Sergey Petrovich, please ask Yuri Karmazin and we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Sergey Petrovich! As it turns out from what we said, we have all the authors of legislative initiatives to adapt to committee quorums, obviously that's wrong. Obviously, as we are discussing the project today, what is the obstacle to accepting it and listening to the public’s opinion? Moreover, the National Assembly of Local Self - Rule early in February, when there was a decision that we canceled, raised a question. What we ask on behalf of all the communities, before the electoral process begins, is to have a discussion and make changes to legislation. And you and I are all stalling the process. Maybe come on, I don't understand why. Is it your private opinion to postpone the committee meeting if there is no committee opinion? We don't have any.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u55	In this regard, the fact that there is no committee decision cannot be said on a specific date today. If there's any proposal by date, but you have to look at the calendar plan. We've had a lot of changes at this time. So once again, I think the optimal date as head of the subcommittee should be done in May, not at the end of April.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u56	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u57	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Sergei Petrovich, I think the committee here and formally could also give up and determine, of course, that would be better. But at the same time, you might as well offer a date, and I support, for example, your position. Since we have to hold parliamentary hearings on Wednesday, when we work on committees, because I looked at the calendar plan, we're not going to be able to make it in April, because we have work on committees from April 6th to April 9. So if you could agree, for example, the best best option we can offer is May 5th. And if the committee agrees, I don't think there's going to be any objection in the author either, we could now not go back to that question again, to vote on May 5th, it's the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u58	Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u59	In my speech, I said that the optimal date is the beginning of May.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u60	No questions asked. Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. I'll inform you, Adama Ivanovich has just raised a question, I've consulted with our secretariat. If the session room supports this idea, on May 5 we have the opportunity to hold parliamentary hearings, if it's good will to support the very idea of holding such hearings, then we'll rectify the ruling both in the preparation of materials and in the holding. But there is now an opportunity to discuss. Please sign up for the discussion. Please show who is ready to share in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u61	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Karmazin will then perform. And the closing word will still have Oxana Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u62	Dear fellow citizens, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the subject of parliamentary hearings is important. Both the need to reform local self - government and the order for local deputies to be elected. At the same time, I want to remember once again the story of why in the local elections we left the majority system and moved on to the party system. And because there was a massive accumulation of majorities, that's small for local councils, when businessmen for Greeks, for money -- no matter how, they were buying up the whole district. And what do we want the whole social groups not to be represented in local self-government at all? I mean local intelligence: teachers, doctors, workers. Who will be on the local council? Local authorities, princes, businessmen, or corrupt officials? And an example of this, the colleagues tell us, is in Kyivrad, yes. When in Greece, using a certain marketing system, a well - known block bought a certain amount and won the measure. Is that what we want? Do we really want reform? So you have to do it more than once, it's a very difficult problem to think about how to reform which electoral system to put in place. Perhaps, indeed, make sure that the village and village councils are chosen by the majority system, and district councils can try to apply the open electoral system. It's going to be a quasi-majority system. But the party representation system will be preserved. So let's think about it. And I think we should not rush into this. And about that determination. The decree suggests that the hearing be held on March 17th. What's March 17? There's no time. What is more, the Rules require that no less than 30 days should be allowed to do so. And there's no decision by the profile committee. So maybe it's time for the profile committee to get together for their meeting, give us a recommendation under the Rules when to do it. You can have these hearings in the same May, and there is, indeed, a serious discussion about reforming the electoral system to the local authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before I invite Yuri Carmazin to the rostrum, I would ask us not to discuss the date, because we have eight more speeches. If 8 speakers are looking for an optimal date. We've decided here that if we vote, we'll set a date and give the committee a chance for at least 30 days. That's why I would ask. Clearly, there will be no hearing on March 17th. If they do, they will be either in late April or in May. Therefore, I would like to highlight the need, whether the need, or the need, for these hearings in general. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, in society, there is a mixed reaction to the decision we have made, especially because the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not properly explained to society. And the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the February 16th decree, which was adopted: the recognition of the validity of the previous decision on the appointment of local elections, was that the Supreme Council made a political decision on the change of the electoral system in the local elections. And that's fundamental, and that's a major gain that's important to know and talk about, and it's not worth mentioning to the Supreme Council when they're trying to embarrass it. As a result, you and I have also discussed important issues, such as making changes to the Constitution, and project 4177. Even the question was that on the same day, February 16, we should have voted. Unfortunately, I'm going to remind you that this bill by Kirilenko, Upper, Triduk and others -- unfortunately, it's never considered before. And so, Your Honor Mikola Volodymyrovich, I would like to ask you as presiding officer today to put that project here in the Supreme Council as quickly as possible. As to what system we're going to implement, I think it's the Congress of Local Self-Government, the National Congress that called on us on February 2nd and recorded on behalf of the territorial communities of the local self-government bodies of all territorial levels, the municipal community, they called on us to amend legislation on local elections, taking into account their proposals to ensure representation, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the respective territorial communities in these councils. And so obviously, there is a possible and mixed system in the district councils, obviously you can look at such a project, but let people say it and let them say it from this high parliamentary rostrum. We're looking at a completely calendar plan. According to the Rules, we are appointed not earlier than a month later. Today's the 12th number, if we assign the 14th number, April 14th is the day, it's Wednesday is the day of the plenary session. They end, then they end up working on committees, but together with committee work, we often hold parliamentary hearings, which we have become a rule in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because the MPs are all here, who's interested, he can come, speak, leave work on the committee for a while. I think it's a totally acceptable date for everyone to be April 14. Because May 5 is a holiday. I would ask you to take such a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u65	Thank you. I'd like to invite Yuri Klukkowski. Prepare Viacheslav Kirilenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u66	The esteemed Chief, respected colleagues, as always, are discussed when they have very little interest in them in the central parliament. And it's not happy with this problem, although it's really important. The problem of local elections actually has two problems: the first problem is the holding of local elections, and the second problem is the electoral systems that have to be applied to one or the other elections. When it comes to the time frame, there were several things: and the inadequacy of changes to the Constitution of the fourth year, when the city heads were forgotten and the Supreme Council of Autonomy, and the Constitutional Court's decision, which interpreted the relevant constitutional standard in such a way that today, in fact, there is no way to hold local elections anywhere at any given time, they spread out at all times of the year and all weeks of the year. This is an abnormal situation, it needs to be rectified, we need to look for a way out of here, and a solution that is not simply constitutional or legal, but a solution that will be seen as fair to society, because our decision to cancel the elections on May 30 without any further action is once and for all considered unfair. And the other side. We often talk about one electoral system that needs to be applied in local elections. Yet it is not possible. In fact, we have at least four different groups of local elections by nature -- these are the elections of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the only of such political bodies of a nature that is undoubtedly to be held on a party basis, as well as the elections of all local councils, district and district councils that have different natures and rural heads. [[of the village]] All of this requires the application of at least four different electoral systems in these elections. Today, both in the local government environment and I understand that in an informal environment, a return to the majority system of rural, urban, and district councils is being discussed. [[of the village]] I think this trend should be discussed with representatives of local self-government. However, I would like to point out that the present system cannot be maintained only by parties at the level of local self - government, since local self - government is designed to solve local problems and therefore cannot be politicized and also controlled by central party authorities. And finally, we have to get the constitutional status back to the district councils and district councils, and they really have to provide representation of interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u68	the territorial communities that are part of the district, the districts and the cities of regional importance that are part of the region. This means that no system with a single circuit in the region or region is impossible, not constitutional. How to get out of this situation is once again a problem of discussion. Therefore, such parliamentary hearings are essential, allowing them to finally shift to Parliament what is being discussed in places and at an unofficial level. I think the first numbers of May are the best time to have this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u69	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko and prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u70	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, certainly electoral legislation needs to be reformed for both local and central elections. What's happening in places right now can't stand any criticism. The Mini Supreme Councils are on many district and district councils, people are waiting for directions from their leaders, they are not making the decisions that the local community needs. You can sympathize with the city’s heads, generally local heads, because without regard to political storms and opposition, they are in many cases just guarantors of some sort of order and stability. Therefore, the system of local elections needs to be reformed by clearly discussing what is the best system. For example, the “For Ukraine” MPs, Moysik, Gumenyuk, Kirilenko have introduced a major project, it is not irreprehensible and we agree. There may be a point to think about mixed systems on some level or open lists, but at least we should open debates on this subject and adopt a decision that will consolidate parliament and allow, not political clubs to have them in places, but meetings of MPs that can deal with sewerage, roads, roofs, human needs and other completely grounded but so much needed. Moreover, the second point is not limited to the reform of electoral legislation. And the taxes and the budget, and the increases in taxes left on the premises, and the introduction of taxes that will be specially left on the premises, including taxes on the road. All of this should increase local budgets and should be thought of, preferably, without political convergence, for one of the options for budgetary reform, unfortunately, has not gone through in the Supreme Council. Although it was 20 percent bad. But 80 percent was good, something that deserved support. And that was necessary then, and we need to now, along with the reform of electoral legislation in pairs, or with a small backlog, to draft legislation on tax and budgetary reform in the area of local communities. And the third. Now I'm looking at the coalition today -- there's no decision to vote that's wrong, because the coalition is created in a way that everyone knows and votes missing. I don't think it's going to be enough. And I report that no matter what coalition is created, anti-Ukrainian decisions should not be made. Therefore, I am informing the voters that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” has today introduced and registered a draft regulation on the release of the anti-Ukrainian Minister of Education and Science, Dmitri Tobacco, because it is necessary for this to take place before the degree of tension rises as a result of its actions. So I call on the Supreme Council to resign this Ukrainianophobic until the tension that will inevitably arise as a result of his appointment as Minister of Education and Science begins. It's not too late right now. We will not let this matter go, and we will do our utmost to get rid of this Ukrainian fooder. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u71	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. The next is Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u72	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. A recent decision to hold the local elections was canceled on May 30. The motives of those who voted down were different. A political leader who has been persuading Ukraine that it is in great need of Ukraine. True, then the presidential election revealed that it was not necessary. Today, he has many supporters in the local councils, and he does not want to be elected because he knows that he will not receive anything in the elections. Others, referring to the formation of district administrations that will then influence these elections, are waiting for local administrations to be transformed under the new president and then press and fake as they faked in large elections at the local level. There were other motives, only the Yulia Timoshenko Block voted against the Supreme Council's decision to hold the elections because it was adopted and the Supreme Council could decide to hold the elections, not cancel the elections. There was also a violation of the Constitution and legislation. But today we are talking about the need to conduct these hearings. I'm sorry to have to do this, but I'd like to make sure that in the form of a conversation that's going to take place and that the committee has already predicted and given some guidance to make the presentations. And they applied to the order of election of the council in both parts, including the number of members of the local councils, how they were "cut" as they say in jargon districts if it was a major system, so that there would be no discrepancy between districts on several occasions, there were no convenient districts for individual candidates who would always win there. To understand how to ensure the rights of national minorities who live compactly, and I would like to stress once again, you cannot miss the question of the status of members of the local councils of rural, rural, urban, beginning with, by the way, the badge of the deputy of the local council. Because I'm going to the subway today, and there's a drunken MP with the same badge as I have, and I have to hide my eyes because he made the same, but we don't have the order of the village council which badge which city council and so on. What a testimony he has when he has to report to the electorate, why he does not report, the order of recalling such a deputy, and so forth. So without the complexity of this question, just consider holding an election as a date, I think we're going to waste our time. So this whole complex has to be clearly illuminated, and then it's going to have its effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u73	Thank you. Before you know it, I'll invite Taras Czarnovol and we'll take stock.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The first thing about the draft decision made by Mrs. Oksana is that I think we need to support it, because we have already seen that the final understanding of what to do with the local elections is neither in the political power nor directly in all of our councils, nor in the final MPs, there is not enough adequate, legislative and legal justification, which would be the right way to deal with all of these, as Jury Bogdanovic said, four completely different by nature of local elections. Therefore, in my opinion, we should support: firstly, determination; secondly, it would be good for the committee, when preparing the hearing, to do a really serious job on who to invite to the presentations at such hearings. In addition to local authorities, it is desirable that scientists, experts in local self - government, electoral law, and much of the importance of constitutional law specialists be present. Because, in my opinion, we need to solve a number of constitutional problems that have arisen, starting with which, in everyone's hearing, the imbalance between the term of authority of local councils and local heads, continuing with the very problematic question of the duration of the mandate of deputies who have been elected on boards that have suspended their powers in a timely manner, or the corresponding local heads, and continuing to formalize the authority of the district and district councils that today in that system of elections and powers they have are absolutely contrary to the standards established by the Constitution. So we have a number of constitutional issues that are directly related to electoral legislation, because it's going to come up with a way of choosing which councils or councils. Clearly, today’s system of local council elections is almost entirely behind closed proportional lists from political parties, with the possibility of inclusion in these lists of people who have nothing to do with these territories, and it is absurd to move away from them. Similarly, a 100 percent shift to a totally mainstream system, especially for district councils, is also absolutely problematic because it will not allow major social groups to be represented. It is likely that we will need to sit down and work seriously at both these hearings and at appropriate, perhaps narrower committee hearings on what kind of systems should be formulated. No one has the final answer today. Obviously we have urban, rural, village councils to return to the communal sphere, we need to move away from the party system, but moving to the 100 percent majority also seems to be a problem. With regard to district and district matters, we may even need to consider cancelling the direct elections of such councils and moving them to represent the interests of the relevant local self - government entities because of a certain delegation. Perhaps such options will have to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u75	Thank you. To the final word of Oksana Volodymyr's Bilozer, please, a microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I want to thank everyone for this very deep discussion. All I want to say is that I made the decision on February 18. I mean, if we were really serious about this question, and the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government has done its job, there would be no discussion today, and we could vote with you today with a calm soul and have already begun to prepare. And yes, I understand that the room is ready to vote, there, on the basis that it will then determine the date proposed today, or April 14, or April 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since most speakers have talked about the need for such a parliamentary discussion, and we have organizational differences, so I'm going to lay the groundwork for the draft decision, and then we'll talk about how to move on. So I'm putting a draft Supreme Council Resolution on parliamentary hearings on "Reforming Ukrainian legislation on local elections for the benefit of territorial communities" as a basis. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:32:02]] For 274 Decision taken. Now we have two alternatives. The first alternative is to send this document to the committee so that they can consult both the public and the factions and offer us a date. Or at this point, find the optimal version of the date, and vote on the new date as a whole. I would ask, maybe from factions per minute, let's exchange how we're going to move. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, this bill will really need to be adopted, and parliamentary hearings will need to be held. But you said that you need to think again, as they say, about the date and some moments after this decision, and the proposal after two weeks, we have one week of work on the committees, one week of work in the districts, and two weeks of finality to make this decision. Now just accept as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I understand that because, first of all, there's a warning from the Party of Regions. Secondly, given our active work today, if we now set the dates, we will not vote on any. So if we want to hold these parliamentary hearings, we send them to the committee, and we ask the committee to consider immediately so that we can vote on a date for the next sessional week as a whole. So vote in general, since there are warnings of national MPs, we will not vote. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u80	I generally agree that we could work on it over the past two weeks, but it's about setting a date. If we work on the first plenary week after two weeks of recess, we will not be able to set the date sooner than a month after we consider the second reading. So let's maybe just set a date, and just the content, the text and everything else we're going to agree on in these two weeks. Well, in general, we can go into summer and vacation and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u81	Unfortunately, Vladimir Dmitrovich, we can't. Either we're voting, or we're not voting at all, and believe me, believe me, the situation in the hall is like this, if I put it all together now, we're not going to make any decisions. So I'm offering to support my colleagues. On the committee, we're going to work out and hold these parliamentary hearings. I, my dear fellows, am, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's not guess the date. I'm announcing a question that doesn't need a special solution because it's a matter of making an oath to a member of the High Council of Justice. On 11 March 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was appointed prime minister of Ukraine as Minister of Justice. According to article 131 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Minister of Justice is a member of the High Council of Justice. According to article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, a member of the High Council of Justice takes an oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So to make an oath to the rostrum, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u82	Remarkable Society, Honorable Colleagues! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u83	Let's say hello to Alexander Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have another personnel question, or more specifically, a number of human resources issues that relate to the early termination of the powers of the people's deputies. A group of national MPs working at the secretariat today, I apologize, have filed with the President's Administration. I'd like to inform Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim. And let's move on to the vote on termination, on the early termination of the powers of the national deputies. Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, you know the rule of the Constitution: that a deputy who moves on to another job is obliged to write a statement and we must release him from the duties of a national MP. So I don't want to get too involved. I would ask you to get support and vote so that colleagues can work there and other deputies can take their place, so that we do not have problems organizing the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I'm reading the application. And I ask you to support our deputies in fulfilling their constitutional duty and working for one job. “Please terminate my mandate as a national deputy of Ukraine in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. People's MP, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I would like to put to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the powers of the People's Deputy, Lvichkin Sergey Volodymyrovich. [[11:38:08]] For 314 Decision taken. “Please terminate my mandate as a national deputy of Ukraine in accordance with the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. National Deputy Skubaszewski.” I would like to vote in favour of suspending the term of office of the national deputy of Skubaszewski. Please vote. [[11:38:41]] For 315 Decision taken. Answers. A statement of content came from the national deputy, Olena Lukas. I would like to vote in favour of the end of the term of office of the national deputy, Olena Lukash. Please vote. [[11:39:11]] For 315 Decision taken. The statement of the corresponding content of the termination came from Irina Akimov’s national deputy for the term. Please support the decision to terminate the term of office of the national deputy of Akimov. Please vote. [[11:39:41]] For 325 Decision taken. And an appropriate application for a permanent termination came from the national deputy, Hanna Herman. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please support the decision to terminate the term of office of the national deputy, Hanna Herman. Please vote. [[11:40:10]] For 342 Actively supported, I see. Dear colleagues, next we had to consider the draft law on volunteer movement. I was approached by the author of the Kaskov Bill Vladislav Volodymyrovich and a co-reporter from the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Eugene Ivanovich Souslov, who asked to transpose the bill. If there is no objection, then, colleagues, we must make a decision on this matter. Who, in order to postpone the consideration of the Bill on the Volunteer Movement, please vote. [[11:41:07]] For 271 The bill has been transposed. With the motives of Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u86	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. We have just voted to end the parliamentary powers of those colleagues who have gone to work at the President's Secretariat, but for some reason we have forgotten to vote for the suspension of Mr. Kravec's mandate as Head of State Affairs. And that's why I think we should and this is a matter in accordance with the Constitution to decide and stop its mandate so that it's said not to be shy, not to go to court, not to make similar decisions. They must all be equal before the Constitution and comply with the requirements of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u87	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. I think my colleagues are going to pass it on because I didn't have his application, and I couldn't ask that question. If he doesn't write a statement, I think we'll act accordingly to the actual legislation in part of the solution to the problem of the co-conspirators. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the protection of the rights of pensioners]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Chago Eugene Petrovich. There is no Eugene Petrovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Kulczynski Mikola Grigorovich. Please, Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u88	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Suškević and Shago, and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. [[on the protection of the rights of pensioners]] The bill is designed to determine the rights and obligations of pensioners and to establish a pretrial settlement of disputes. The status of a valid regulation of the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance does not fully ensure the protection of pensioners' rights in the system of compulsory state pension insurance and do not determine their rights and obligations. In addition, the Pension Fund lacks a system of appeal against the decisions of its organs to ensure the protection and enforcement of the rights of insured persons and insurers within the framework of the pretrial settlement of disputes. The Committee supports this draft law, since its adoption will contribute to the empowerment of pensioners, insured persons and to increasing the level of protection of their rights and insurers, provided for by the legislation on compulsory state pension insurance through appeals against decisions of the Pension Fund authorities. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the first reading of the bill is to be sent for further work. As for the comments and suggestions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the committee notes the following. Article 1 of the National Pension Insurance Act defines the term of both the insured person and the pensioner. The draft law therefore sets out the corresponding rights and obligations of this category of persons. The other one. The resolution of individual issues by valid procedure for the submission and issuance of documents for the purpose of the appointment or recalculation of pensions, approved by the Pension Fund’s decree, does not deprive them of the possibility of settling them at the legislative level. Third. As for the system of appeals against decisions made by the Pension Fund authorities, it is aimed at protecting and enforcing the rights of pensioners and insurers within the framework of the procedure for pretrial settlement of disputes. Please support the committee's decision to adopt the bills in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u89	Thank you, Mikola Georgievich. Does anyone have a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Thank you, Mikola Georgievich. Request to sign up for a discussion of this bill. Please enlighten those willing to discuss the bill. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepared for Paul’s day. Dear colleagues, I think we're going to be able to make it to the break, so if there's a few minutes there so that you don't deny a break to complete the consideration of this bill. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u90	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Act on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" with the rules on the protection of the rights of pensioners, the obligations of insurers and the Ukrainian Pension Fund. In particular, it is incumbent upon the authorities of the Pension Fund of Ukraine to assist pensioners, insured persons and insurers to obtain them in Ukraine and beyond data that influence or may affect the scope of their legally defined pension rights provided for by the law, the establishment of an appeal system for decisions of the regional and central bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine. In general, the project even narrows pensioners' rights under the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act. In addition, provisions relating to the right to obtain a pension and to receive assistance from the Pension Fund authorities in obtaining salary data, internships affecting the size or type of pension, to obtain data from the Pension Fund's bodies that have been entered into the pension case, are regulated by the valid procedure for filing and processing documents for the appointment or recalculation of pensions in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, approved by the Ukrainian Pension Fund's Decree. In this regard, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes that the bill be rereaded for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u91	Thank you. I'd like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u92	Honourable National Deputies, honourable fellow citizens, the 2071 bill on compulsory government pension insurance for the protection of pensioners’ rights, first and foremost, did not seek to protect the rights of pensioners, including the prosecution of decisions by the territorial central authorities of the Pension Fund within the framework of the dispute procedure. The pension rights of a citizen are also defined, and their right to provide operational quality information to the pension fund authorities, such as assistance in obtaining income support, work experience, and the receipt of this information should be free of charge. I want to point out to you that for his work, Yulia Timoshenko did everything he could to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population, it's primarily our pensioners, the disabled. And despite the severe crisis that has plagued the whole world, notice that pensions, aids, pensioners' allowances, disabled people are small, but paid on time, in full, and there was never such a delay. We hope that this will be followed by the next government, and the pensioners must be protected. And that's why our faction of the Yulia Timoshenko is proposing to support the decision of the committee of profile and to adopt the bill as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Ukrainian People's Self-Defense Party. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who keep looking at citizens' appeals to MPs see how many cases people complain about the illegal activities of the Pension Boards in one or more areas of retirement. And I don't know what kind of mail I've got, I've got my eye on it, I can tell you, maybe a percentage of 20 of these calls are made by citizens. This makes it absolutely clear that there is a problem. And I thank the authors, and the national deputy Suškević and Shago for noticing the problem. The problem is that the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act, which is completely under consideration, which is already customary and is a general law in this case does not regulate an appeal, in the way that it is now proposed in the law. So I'm going to propose to support the legislative initiatives outlined in this law, although it's not flawless, my Chechetov colleague is right here. There are problems for him. But I think that in the first reading, it can be accepted, at least because the Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance Act is being supplemented by Article 16 of the Prime Law, which gives details about the rights and obligations of pensioners and their families. Because it turns out that when a person is lying sick, no one can go after him or get help, nothing, nothing to worry about getting a pension, nothing to do with the current laws. This law affords such an opportunity, that is, it improves the condition of people. Next. Interestingly, the responsibilities of pensioners are also laid down in the first letter, and they, too, formalize this is also positive. Now with regard to the decommissioning of the appeals system of the Pension Fund, which consists of the central appeals commission, the college body was created at the level of the central apparatus and the territorial appeals commission, it is extremely important. Because in the courts today, especially in the administration, go and look at the cases three years ago with these disputes. So we need to settle these issues and make sure that this happens both within the Pension Fund and at the same time without excluding the prosecution. Thank you for your attention. I think we need to work on this bill. But it should be accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! If you didn't deny the government's position, we'll listen to this bill because it's about funding. Deputy Finance Minister Matthew Vladimir Makarovich, what is the position of the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u96	Your Honourable People’s Deputies will certainly make your decision on this bill. I want to draw your attention only to the problem that this bill needs additional expenses. The creation of appeals committees will require at least 15 million dollars, 20 million dollars, and we still have problems with the Pension Fund. So it seems to me that the very right thing to do was to not accept it in the first reading, to send it back to the first reading, and then to look at it. We need to improve the work of the Pension Fund itself, the territorial authorities, and thus ensure the rights of pensioners. I ask you to support the proposal already made by the People's Deputy Chechtev for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u97	Thanks, the government's position is clear. Jaroslav Suhi, please, and there will be a closing word later at Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the point is this bill is unfortunately a continuation of this vicious practice of "tapping holes" in pension legislation. Dear colleagues, this bill does not modernize the solidarity pension system, it does not bring us any closer to the second or third level of pension reform. The continuation of the “hole patch” only creates the perception that we are improving something there. All the aspects that are foretold here can be agreed with, but they can be taken into account that they already have room. When it comes to appeals, it is a court case, the creation of additional structures at the Pension Fund, and the pension fund now owes more than 20 billion dollars to the budget. I think that this view has the right to exist that our colleagues have put forward, but this bill needs to be redrafted, first of all, to remove those moments that duplicate in the existing legislative field of things, they just shouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, closing word, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Jaroslave, that is, the bill does not cover any holes, it refers to clearly and clearly and clearly the promotion and improvement of the rights of pensioners, and the improvement of their protection, including the creation of appeals committees. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court is the Constitutional Court's decision of 07.09.2007 that a judicial solution to disputes is not a refusal to resolve disputes in a court of law. Linking, resolving individual issues by valid order and documenting for the purpose of recalculation of pensions approved by the Pension Fund’s decree does not deprive them of the possibility of settling them at the legislative level. With regard to the budget for the establishment of an appeal committee. Yes, there is, of course. But this law in no way diminishes or duplicates anything, diminishes the rights of pensioners and insured persons. Because of this, I would ask the MPs to take it as a basis in the first reading, with comments made, to present it to the second reading. Including in the matter of law enforcement, since this requires funds from which year this can be done. But I repeat, to no extent does the law make the existing State Pension Insurance Act worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll make decisions. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" to ensure pensioners' rights as a basis. [[Registration number 2071]] Please vote. [[11:57:19]] For-127 By factions, please show by factions, the Party of the Regions is 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" - 108, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 14, communists - 0, "Club of Lithuania" - 4, non-fractional - 1. Dear colleagues, there was an offer for one more time. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk with motive, please Adam Ivanovich and Lyszko with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u102	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, especially those who shout that some factions do not protect pensioners. If you were to protect pensioners like the factions that are now performing, the pensioners had no headaches. Would you like to see what the bill is proposing?Oh, my God! The bill proposes to create another body to make the lives of pensioners worse. I mean, there are still additional appeals committees. A little pension fund, you're going to let a pensioner into a corrupt, bribed body that's going to demand something from them. So I propose: let's vote on sending this bill to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u103	Oleg Easy with motive, please. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u104	During the election campaign, members of the newly formed illegal coalition sent letters to each pensioner saying that as soon as they came to power, they would pay for everything they had been given since November or October of the month. You will have the opportunity to demonstrate your love for pensioners, and we hope that as of next Monday, millions of Ukrainian pensioners will receive the money you promised them, two thousand dollars to receive next week's pensioners. Otherwise, we'll consider the pensioners who just cheated on them. We'll see how you keep your promises to the pensioners. As for this law, it improves, enables pensioners to improve their rights. And just by not voting for this bill, and not returning the money you promised to people, you're thus demonstrating that all the promises you made in the election were a blank sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I would ask our colleagues for justice, if there are such desires, one by one from the faction, because we will not finish until the break. Yuri Karmazin and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Well, look what you're suggesting. Right now I'm talking to those who haven't reached the end of the law. The point is that an appeal body is created and given authority, and we give the law only to the courts, but not to rule out a court hearing where people go to court for years, they have to drive, and they can't decide anything. And here they will be bound. This is done on public grounds, within the scope of the funding of the Pension Fund. Nothing's added to a penny. And there's no way to put anything into the budget. I don't understand why we're saying that we're a new body. We're making it easier. Obviously, those who do not have those petitions of the citizen do so today. I would like to address the common sense of all national MPs: either we go back to voting, or let us offer to accept again in the first reading. It's public policy, nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u107	Thank you. I am betting on the re-first draft of the Act amending the Law on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. Please vote. [[12:01:17]] For 254 The decision has been made. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 12.31 we continue to work on an interesting draft law: the real estate tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. A draft Real Property Tax Act is being announced for consideration. [[real estate]] [[Registration number 2113]] Reporter: Pavlovsky Andry Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u109	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Honorable compatriots and national MPs! Today, real estate taxes are collected in more than 130 countries around the world and bring a substantial share of income to local budgets. [[real estate]] For example. In some states of the United States and Canada, local budgets account for 75 - 80 percent and Australia for 90 percent. This real estate tax plays a vital role in the economies of the European Union, as well as in the leading countries of Europe, such as France, Germany. It should be noted that it has been done for over 100 years. And in some parts of the world, this tax is called a tax on wealth. I would like to say, honourable national deputies, that your attention is that the real estate tax is provided for in the Tax System Act in Ukraine. So why in Ukraine over the past 15 years do we only hear talk about this and even complain that local self - government should be helped to fill local budgets in some way? Or maybe it's because our elite doesn't have a political field to do that. And our nuvarian oligarchs would rather pay them a few grand for one dinner at a restaurant, which would put such a small amount into the local budgets for their luxurious palaces and properties that are built under every big place. Or perhaps because they have no desire to legalize their property, which has often been obtained by means of shadow income. Therefore, with a view to restoring social justice, Bill 2113 proposes to introduce a socially oriented real estate tax mechanism that is to become an essential source of local budgets and thus increase the financing of local social and investment programmes. The tax rate is proposed to be set as a percentage of the fixed subsistence minimum at the beginning of the year per square metre of total immovable property. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize that the bill has a social orientation, since owners of immovable property up to 300 square meters are generally exempt from paying this tax, and more than 90 percent in our country. For example, if you own 300 square meters of private real estate, the tax rate will be 0.5 times the subsistence minimum, for example, for this year as of 1 January 2010 it will be 825 dollars, that is, for a meter you will pay 4 dollars 20 dollars, and for a year you will pay only 1,239 dollars. So we see that the tax rates are very reasonable. I would like to point out that the bill gives a detailed definition of who is paying the tax, who is the subject of the tax, who are determining the amount of the tax, and how it is charged and administered, and who are responsible for the duties and responsibilities of the taxpayers. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers commits itself for two months after the law becomes effective to prepare appropriate normative acts to facilitate the implementation of this law. I want to tell you, if this tax is being done in all the civilized countries of the world. I said there were more than 130, so I think it's time we were with a civilized world, not with African countries, where there is no tax. And I also want to say, you know, sometimes they say that the measure of patriotism of every businessman is determined by the amount he's willing to legally compensate for his income, including his property. That's why. To the local budget. So I would like to consider this bill. Yes, indeed, there are contentious thoughts, there is a reference to this bill. But I think it can be worked out, and some discussion issues can be resolved. But we need to take a concrete step in this direction, not just to have 20 years of talking about what it takes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u110	Thank you, Andrey Mikolayovich. Will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up, Your Honor. While the author of the bill, the initiator, is being questioned, I would like to ask the national MPs who are interviewing there, who are actively working as journalists, to get involved in the work, as another employee of the President’s Administration responded to the criticism of the Supreme Council, particularly the national deputy, Oleg Lazko. And I have a statement from the national deputy of Kravtz Andrija Vitaliyovich that we will terminate our mandate on a permanent basis so that we can make the right decision. After considering the matter, I would like to ask everyone to be actively involved. Andrew Mikolaiovich, please ask me a question. Go back. Yeah. Yes, on your way out. Ivan Stojko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", please. [[B in m in s a l in]] When we consider questions, then. Please, Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Andrey, indeed, the law is very interesting, but I would like to point out that not only do many people build near cities but also in villages today in Ukraine. And thank God that's how it happens. I wouldn't want us to get to what tax is going to be going on, once, remember, it was in the old days, every chicken or any tree and all that. But please tell me, in general, you can really support the concept. But I don't agree with what you're saying when the house is 300 square meters, you have to draw the tax by 0.5 percent. Please tell me if you would agree to offer, for example, 500 feet [500 m] or more. Because there are people working abroad, especially in Western Ukraine, and they are actually built in villages. They earn their whole lives for this house, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u112	The question is understandable. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u113	Thank you for asking, Mr. Ivan. In fact, I would like to point out that the main thing in this bill is to define conceptually and take the first step. And as for the size of the tax rate and other things we can discuss with you, the definition of who is the taxpayer, who is the benefits and so forth. I can agree that you can raise more than 300 square meters, from which taxes start. But a lot of the common people, let's say, won't pay anything at all. It's meant for our people to be able to help local budgets pay a few thousand dollars once a year, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u114	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u115	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear Andrew Mikhailovich, you said what the measure of patriotism is. I was saying that one day, and I'm going to give it one more time. In fact, patriotism ends where the tax declaration begins. This is really true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u116	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u117	That's the first one. The other one. You know, if you were to talk about the opinion of serious experts, they would just say that the global trend is just a denial of real estate tax, and that's true. It's not my opinion, it's my expert opinion. Because you have to encourage people to make more money, build more, be active, sorry, not to do things that don't bring, let's say, prosperity. And the third moment. Tell me, please, a man is building a house. She's paying VAT on the property, she's paying the profits. How many taxes does it take for the Ukrainian to pay, three, four, five, ten, how much?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u118	Mr. Olege, first of all, the law stipulates that for the time being there is unfinished construction and that there is no real estate in use, nothing is paid for it. Secondly, let's say that if a person has a property that has a thousand, one and a half thousand meters, has money to support this property, then pay a few thousand in the local budget, help that community where he has his property, it's a matter of honor, I don't think it's that heavy, and that somehow it won't stimulate him, develop his business, or not motivate him to build yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u119	Circled by Mikola Petrovich, please ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u120	Dear author, please tell us why you have a contradiction to what you are saying and what you are writing down. According to your bill, information about every person's property goes to and is fixed by the tax administration at the place where they live, not at the place where they find it. Where the interest of the local authorities is, it's not easy to get out of what you said and what you wrote as the author is the first. Second, please tell me, the person is building up at the expense of most of the money he received has officially paid the tax. I have the money in my pocket, it's in the bank account, it's not taxed today, no. If I just built a house or a barn, or a garage, it immediately comes in tax and says pay the tax. Tell me, please, the tax is paid out of income or, as we say, man, there's a shirt on it, tomorrow you'll come and say, you have a very big one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u121	An understandable question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u122	I think that some questions might actually be right for you, compare property to a thousand square meters and more to a shirt you've already exaggerated. If a person builds this property, keeps it, I say that the tax rates are reasonable to pay a few thousand dollars is not a problem. As far as registration is concerned. State property registration is carried out by the relevant public registration authorities, and this information is provided to tax administrations that already calculate the size of the tax. And the person pays for the address where it's registered, but he pays for all the total property that he can have in different places and in different areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u123	Steshenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u124	Andrew Mikhailovich! Thank you so much for finally pulling yourself away from the expertise in preparing this document. But I'd like to give it to my colleague Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u125	Yuri Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! I support the author’s view that wealth tax should be introduced. I have a serious argument for this. Dear colleagues! Here I am holding in my hands the declaration of the Chief of Security, approved yesterday by the Coalition. He has a family of ten thousand square feet [10,000 sq m] and a thousand square feet [1,200 sq m] of apartment. If you move it into two-room apartments where people live, that's 200 apartments, your honors! And I'm sure there are so many cases. And that's why your law is very timely. I have a question. Do you agree to rule out?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u127	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u128	I have questions about whether you agree to exclude from your law the chapters that apply to industrial enterprises. Because there's a particular topic, a separate conversation people pay for depreciation -- that's a question they need to study further. But leave a tax on housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u129	I can consult with you because, in fact, we consulted with experts -- the part about the taxation of legal persons can be considered separately, whether it's a separate bill or a project. And the fact that Mr. Horoshkowski has a ten thousand square meters apartment for his little family, and he's a patriot, he should thank us for giving him the opportunity to help his country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u130	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u131	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Mr. Andrey, two radically opposite positions have already been made in this room. Well, one of them says that you don't have to do that, because there's already so much tax, well, you can sort of agree with it. The second is that we have to do this. It is, however, that today we are not talking about conventional dwellings, not ordinary homes, not ordinary houses, we are talking about large buildings, and we are talking about a tax on wealth. But I'd like to reassure you, Mr. Andry, don't worry about it. In this room, there will be only those who don't fear this tax, for example, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, all of them don't support you, so today, deal with this situation, the wealth tax is not good for the oligarchs who are forming those factions that are in power today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u132	Thank you for asking. You know, this might be a moral issue, because really a lot of people, including in this room, who are provided at restaurant interviews for dinner, spend a few thousand, but not a bracelet, right? And then they pay a much lower tax on their properties, palaces, luxury property, sorry, "the frog is choking," it's a pity to give them to the state, help this local community where they have their own local property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u133	Vladimir Yavorowski and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u134	Dear reporter, the ideology of this bill is very correct, and I am convinced that among the possible and necessary other fair taxes in Ukraine, this is the one for wealth, or real estate. I've passed a few versions of my bill, they haven't passed, they won't pass yours. But I have a question for you. I'm very worried. You know, you didn't come with this law on time, don't bring God, if he's accepted. You can imagine how much Victor Fedorovich cut his salary by half, the President cut his salary by half. Now, do you have any idea how much you have to pay for "Migiri"? How can we get out of this situation? Help me, give me a hint, you're a professional on this subject, you've been thinking about it. How can he help the poor?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u135	Well, we think that our new President Janukovic is also a responsible citizen and he will declare his property, his income, including the payment of this tax, which is also called in certain countries, a tax on wealth, including his real estate, including in “Mježirje”. And our Prime Minister, Azarov, will pay for his two dairies in Concha-Zaposa, and other actors for their Concha-Zaposa should at least give a copy to the local budget of Kiev to the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u136	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich. I invite the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Kruglov Mikola Petrovich to report. And my fellow Members, I ask you to understand that we have a "Variance" soon, so that we can take this very intensive form, but we will briefly complete the consideration of this issue. Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, especially the last speaker, I want to reassure you and say, I don't know who will vote in your room, but I want to quote you from the beginning one letter. It is addressed to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Terhochin. “Dear Sergio Anatoliyovich, at the request of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy, the Cabinet of Ministers concludes the draft Law on Real Estate Tax, Real Estate, initiated by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlovski. [[Registration number 2113]] The Cabinet of Ministers does not support the draft Law.” Turkey's signature. Here's the answer. You don't have to say black and white for today. That's the truth of what you're saying and what you're writing. So this law has been on our committee from the very beginning, because this government of Tymoshenko has not supported this law. You don't have to use your head for another, as they say. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's different now, yeah. You can keep your wits about you. But when the so-called real estate is tied to both the apartments and the barns and the garages and the cottages today, everything is tied together, and it takes a percentage to the minimum of living, please tell me 5 percent -- the largest stake, 5 percent of a thousand, even, what's it going to be? That's how much you pay, as you say, for the greatest wealth, you say. There's no language, call it the right law, the Riches Act. Give clear criteria for this wealth. Enter the tax rate criterion here. Tell the local councils to be fully interested and we will be happy to support such a bill. But so far this bill has not supported a committee where your majority is just because it's in this. Committees. the underlying issues you're talking about are not defined. First of all, we don't have the only body to register this property. In rural areas, there is no rural area at all. It's at the district level and it's only in the district centers. To this day, we did not even say who was registering. There is no tax base in the tax administration today. As a result, the bill is virtually uncalculated. We can't even say, and what will that give the local authorities? What should be done about the properties in which they live and which are not exploited? How are they taxed? I can talk a lot about the shortcomings of this project. We asked a question. Is the data to be entered? Some say yes. Others say no. Germany introduced this tax, and a year ago it cancelled that tax. We say "real estate". In individuals, it's one thing, and in legal persons, it's another. So our committee did not support him and decided to return him to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u138	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Dear colleagues, so that you do not insist on honoring the right to ask questions, and we have only discussed it from the faction. Okay. You'll support it. Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Please sign up for factions. Please show me, yes, Sergey Shevchuk conveys the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, to prepare Karpuku. Please use the John Grigorovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u139	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We should thank the drafter for the idea that we should expand the tax base. And designed our work in opposition exactly that's what we need to help the government as long as it's busy, really, sharing portfolios, and it's going to take less than a week, and we need to offer things now before the 2010 budget is adopted that allow us to expand the tax base. That's the first one. The other one. Since you are about to have to form a day’s order, such responsible bills may be inappropriate on Friday. Because such global meaning of the laws for Ukraine, for its economy, especially for the tax and fiscal systems, would be wrong to put on Friday and with the prospect of what it might not have gone through. Third. Colleagues, let's pay attention to the following. We want to build a civilized society in which the middle class is guaranteed stability. At the same time, the gap between the richest and the poor in civilized countries is 1 to 4. We have 1 to 400. Dear friends, the tax on wealth is inevitable, because I thank the author for trying to answer that question in this law. But the next thing you have to say. We've already proposed to the government at the end of 2008 and to the individual deputies we've proposed a tax on the Mercedes, you remember that well, we've offered it on yachts, on property, on land, captured in coastal areas, and there's 200 meters of recreation that we can't touch, we've offered it. In the end, there was no support in this room. I'd like to see a new government where he's looking for taxes, where he's going to look for money to pay for the serious social positions that have already been declared, and not just declared, but accepted. The cost of these issues is at least the Social Standards Act, if introduced even on April 1. 70 billion dollars by the end of the year. Therefore, the tax on wealth, the tax on “mersedes”, on property, on yachts, is inevitable on earth. Next. Of course, this law is the law of at least six ministries of government, so the Turks signed such a petition to the Supreme Council, which in fact, working on this complex, serious bill requires the efforts of not one national MP. That's why we understand what the First Vice Prime Minister signed at the time. The faction will clearly support constructive work in opposition, clearly supporting this bill, which requires substantial work on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u140	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u141	I want to conclude by saying that before the second reading, indeed, this bill, taking into account, including the requirements of the Rules, will require substantial work with regard to both proposals and government structures. But such a law is a tax on wealth: to take from much to support the poor today is essential. This is the norm of civil society. Thank you. The faction will support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u142	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u143	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” The paradox of this idea and this bill, which is supported outside the Hall of the Supreme Council and is not supported in this room. And speaking to the author, I can say that if there were a full room in the Supreme Council, there would be even less chance of passing this bill. Sociology, which was held before the presidential elections, showed that 67 percent of people support real estate taxes, and more for luxury items, for wealth. But when there are specific definitions, it's about the things that were said: on yachts and so on and so forth. That is not to say that the people sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers are government officials, as one high-ranking official declared yesterday’s declarations in ownership of the car “Porsche”, “Majbach”, “Bentley” and “Mercedes” last. And of course, oh, he doesn't pay taxes on luxury items, objects of wealth. So it's a good idea, but at the same time, there's a lot to think about. After all, in the mentality of the Ukrainian, that his home should be rich and good. And the question was already asked: If there are 300 square meters people already need to pay, but for them it will be a significant sum, and very many buildings are now being built in such a volume. Therefore, the bill needs real refinement and refinement. And in general, it's not just about the introduction of a real estate tax, it's about the introduction. First of all, talk about the introduction of a tax on wealth. Then we might have had a chance to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u144	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u145	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, well, first of all, we need to answer the question of Nikola Petrovich Kruglov in connection with the fact that, as it were, Julia Timoshenko, she objected to the adoption of this bill. And here we have to answer whether, on another occasion, the BUT deputies came up with something stupid that they don't find on their heads, whether Timoshenko understands anything about economic issues, and that's why she was justly retired, or yes, or yes. In fact, the bill now proposes to impose a tax on the immovable property of natural and legal persons, if more than 300 square feet [300 sq m]. At the same time, it is noted that the main condition for the introduction of a real estate tax is the completeness and relevance of information in the State Register of Real Estate Rights. However, the explanatory note to the project does not contain information about the state of the creation and operation of this register. Notice that in the absence of a clear mechanism to create a State Real Estate Register, implementation of the project will be very complicated. Yes, according to the project, taxes are set at a percentage of the defined subsistence minimum at the beginning of the year per square metre of the total amount of taxed property belonging to natural and legal persons, natural persons, entrepreneurs. At the time, the project is not settled when a person owns property in various regions of Ukraine, such as Kiev, Zakarpatti, Crimea, and so on. Even if this property is registered to the same owner, the project does not determine which institution has to calculate the aggregate size of the immovable property, controlling the reliability of the information is equally important: which region, for example, in this case, will receive a tax. Moreover, the existing practice of registering real estate with different relatives will reduce the real tax base. In this regard, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports the position of the retired government, Yulia Timoshenko, regarding the nonadmission of the bill. But we agree with the drafter of the bill, Mr. Pavlovski, that it is necessary to introduce this bill into the Tax Code, which will be a government introduced to the Supreme Council, and this bill had to be adopted, but with another philosophy that would allow, indeed, an increase in budget revenue. And the government of Azarov is bound to introduce a bill with a new philosophy that will allow the budget to increase, bring it to the Supreme Council, and by the Supreme Council by the majority, it will be accepted by the new majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, since we did not decide on the shorter procedure, but we agreed on a shorter procedure, I would ask Yuri Carmazin for one minute, and a replain by Vladimir Yavorowski, and we would adopt a decision. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. From the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, calm down, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I have read carefully both the draft Law and what has now been read from the expert conclusion of our colleagues, and I have come to this conclusion. First, well, you should always tell the truth, not half the truth. Why did the government reject the bill? The government wrote: “In keeping with the need for a real estate tax in Ukraine, it should be noted that the introduction for those who are owned by legal persons and are used in the manufacturing process — I quote Turchinova — could lead to an increase in the gross costs of economic operators and, as a result, an increase in the cost of domestic production and a decrease in its competitiveness.” That's the reason. I mean, my colleague Kruglov was right in saying that we should throw away the chapter that concerns both legal and physical persons. Absolutely right, absolutely normal. And then you have to look at the bets, because they're not exactly correctly written either. In the first reading, a law can be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u148	Allow Yuri Anatolyovich to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u149	As soon as an idea as an idea and as part of taxing the property of a natural person. Everything else, in which it is located and so on -- everything else needs to be worked out, Comrade Pavlovski, absolutely everything needs to be worked out and reconciled with Minfin, and with the government. So thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u150	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, a replica. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u151	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT, Kirovograd Dear Mr. Chechetov, we made a deal with you men once, we even shook hands with each other. You asked me not to touch the subject, and you will not touch Julia Timoshenko. That's why I don't act as a member of the B.U.T., I'm just like a man. And now I'm telling you, you broke our deal. That's why I'm going to take a minute and read the separate places from your interrogation protocol when you were, after you left the post of head of the holding fund. There's a lot of lush places. And Yanukovich and Kuchma. I'll do it. Because you violated our manly arrangement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, let us not violate the principles of political ethics in our discussions and make decisions. So I'm voting on the bill on real estate tax registration number 2113. Please vote. [[13:07:48]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Region Party 7, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 105, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 5 Communists – 26, Litvina Block – 15, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, a general review of our session hall shows that we can make another personal decision in good faith. That's why I have a statement from national deputy Kravtsz Andrija Vitaliyovich, who responded to criticism today in the session hall and asked the Supreme Council to suspend the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy in accordance with article 81, paragraph one, of the Constitution for the first part of the second part. So I am putting to the vote the question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the national deputy, Andrija Vitaliyovich Kravc. Please vote. [[13:08:51]] For 289 The decision has been made. I think the Central Election Commission will be actively working so that in two weeks we can hear the pledge of new national deputies so that the Supreme Council can work actively. Now, as I step out of the Rules, I announce an hour for the question of "Virgin." I'd like you to sign up for the People's Deputies. Please put it on the board. National Deputy Gorin, turn on Gorina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u153	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u154	I invite you to prepare John Stoyk for the speech of the People's Fellow of Kolesnick. Dear colleagues, as well as the national deputy Glazunov, gave the floor to the national deputy Kolesnick. It's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, today we have a new Government and problems that need to be addressed. I am therefore authorized, on behalf of the Hungarian community, the Romanian community, the Russian-speaking communities of Ukraine, to appeal openly to the Minister of Education to ensure external testing in the mother tongue. There has been a meeting of communities that have drawn attention to the fact that over the past two years we have repeatedly addressed the public authorities of Ukraine to international institutions on the discriminatory language policy of Ukraine in the field of external independent testing. To date, children in Ukraine have been trained in Crimean Tatar, Romanian, Hungarian, Polish, Russian, which in general make up the educational network of more than 1 thousand 400 schools and half a million students. On 25 December 2007, the Minister of Education, Wakarczuk, signed Order No. 1171, concerning external testing of persons wishing to enter Vuza, who decided to carry out such testing only in Ukrainian. Such an order not only destroyed any meaning of native language education in Nazi schools from Ukraine, but also actually forced young school graduates who planned to continue their studies in higher education, to give up their mother tongue and to go to education in Ukrainian. Under public pressure, Ukraine's international institutions later amended the order, allowing for external testing in minority languages in 2008-2009. Since this year, however, external testing in Ukraine will be conducted exclusively in Ukrainian, which we consider to be a gross and cynical violation of human rights. According to article 26 of the United Nations General Declaration of Human Rights, which is a basic document, it enshrines fundamental human rights, which states: “man must have all rights and freedoms regardless of race and colour, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs”. In 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the European Charter of Regional Minorities, which also requires the education and examination of children in their mother tongue. On 25 February 2010, the MEPs in Brussels adopted a landmark resolution in paragraph 5 of which indicated to Ukraine the obligations of implementation, the provisions of the European Charter of Regional Languages. and the need to ensure the immediate realization of the right to education in minority languages. This right is emphasized and enshrined by the Constitution of Ukraine in article 24, article 53, of the Language ODSR Act, article 1, relevant articles of the core documents. We must note that these laws are not being implemented and the problem is beginning to grow. Higher education in Ukraine is regulated by the Higher Education Act, which provides that the language of higher education is defined in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. [[Article 5]] It should be answered that article 29 of the Language Act provides that graduates from higher education institutions and special students who, along with Ukrainian and Russian students in general education schools and national languages, pass an initial entrance examination in Ukrainian and a competitive entrance examination in Russian and other languages. Thus, Ukrainian legislation and ratified international obligations explicitly indicate the right to pass the introductory examinations in the language of the nation. minorities, and on the prohibition of any form of discrimination and the granting of privileges or restrictions on the creation of an unequal situation. In view of what has been said, it is the view of Order 1171 as a criminal attempt to deprive children of their continuing language education, and this is a continuation of the ethnocid policy regarding linguistic minorities in Ukraine. The same position is supported and advocated for the right of graduates to submit external independent testing in regional languages, in the languages of the Lugansk, Nikolayevsky, Zaporozsky, Harykowski, Donetsk, Dnepropetrovsk Regional Councils, the Crimea Supreme Council, the Sevastopol City Council and many other towns in Ukraine. In this regard, and bearing in mind the initiation of the external independent testing procedure in 2010, we request the Minister of Education to amend the Ministry of Education Order 1171 of 25 December 2007 without delay with a view to bringing it into line with the Constitution, with the laws of Ukraine, with the international obligations assumed by our country and the unconditional right of citizens to receive education in their own language. The address was signed by the President of the All-Ukrainian Human Rights Movement, Russia-speaking Ukraine, Koleszenko, responsible Secretary of the international organization “Romania Community of Ukraine”, Aurka Bosca, head of the Democratic Union of “Hungary” of Ukraine, Istvan Geidas. We believe that the Ministry of Education has an obligation to fulfil Ukraine's international obligations and relevant instruments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u156	Yes, we still have a national MP, Kovalova, who is here, who has given another three minutes to the national MP Kolesnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the second topic of the communication is the question of duplication of films in minority languages in our State. I must report to you that the Ministry of Culture, and we have asked the Ministry of Culture again to give an order, i.e. by law, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which states clearly and unequivocally: “The rental certificate must be issued for films which are shown in Ukraine either in which the Ukrainian language is duplicated or subtitled or translated”. However, the Ministry of Culture and its department had made illegal decisions, an illegal order under which evidence of the right to rent the film was issued only in exceptional cases, if the film was duplicated in Ukrainian. The following developments have taken place as a result of these outrageous, illegal actions. Two years after this free, immoral and illegal order in Ukraine, 26 cinemas were closed. In two years, Ukrainian viewers were unable to watch more than 150 films that received international awards and international recognition. There's only one reason that would seem plausible. Today, however, we have a statement from an American corporation stating that, thanks to such an order, the incomes in the cinematography system have increased. I confirm that this corporation has indeed increased its income because this criminal order that we're talking about has a corrupt, lobbyist direction. Because it was the American corporation that built the only factory in Ukraine to organize a replica and people who wanted to show films in Ukraine were forced to enter this duplicate factory. We don't have any. This is how national priorities overlap with corrupt, beneficial, lobbying interests of foreign companies. We therefore request the Minister of Culture to revoke the illegal order, to bring it in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, and to ensure the issuance of rolling evidence for the sale of films that are either duplicated or translated or subtitled into Ukrainian at the discretion of the cinematographer. This will be European, which will be in line with the international obligations of our Ukraine. Because no country in Europe, we have official answers, has such a language policy in the area of cinematography. The State in Europe intervenes in the language of the cinema only if it provides for the sale of the film or the recording of the film for budgetary purposes. And the third subject. Message. I am pleased to inform the Ukrainian people that the Wallin Regional Council did not meet for an extraordinary session and that I did not support the strange statement of the Lviv Regional Council and Ivano-Frankovsky, who decided to instruct the European Parliament on whether Bandera was a Nazi criminal or not. We need to take a clear position. Either we join a European society and we support all their resolutions, their opinions, or we act selectively: here we cut onions, here we drank vodka. If we are going to Europe, we must go to Europe and comply with European requirements. The European Parliament has drawn our attention to the inadmissibility of assigning the role of hero to Nazi criminals. Nor is it a matter for the regional councils to indicate to the MEPs how to proceed. And I'll welcome you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u158	The word is given to Stoke John, to prepare Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u159	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Listen up! You've just heard my predecessor's speech and, of course, that the attack on Ukrainian language, on the back of the movies, and in general, the whole Ukrainian thing started to get aggressive, and that's why we really need to defend ourselves today. Yesterday the so - called coalition came into existence in Ukraine, a government, a personal composition so eloquent that it does not need comments today. But even in the background of this government, especially cynically, I think it looks like the appointment of the minister of education, as well as the science of Ukrainephob, the Ukrainian farmer Dmitr Tobacco. The fact that Ukrainian education, and therefore the upbringing of future Ukrainians, is given into the hands of a person who is completely disrespectful of Ukrainian history, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian as a nation, Ukrainian nationality and so on can be considered a direct challenge to our people, to the Ukrainian nation. The reputation and human dignity of the Smoker are not to be spoken of. After all, not only in Ukraine but also in their own party, is this unruly and unworthy person accepted. Let me give you an example. That's not what I'm saying. That's what Boris Kolesnikov said. He was interviewing one of the newspapers and he was talking about Dmitri Tobacco. Therefore, the Party “For Ukraine!” realizes that the aim of the Tobacco Minister’s appointment is to destroy the system of objective knowledge assessment, the destruction of Ukrainian humanitarian education, and the ruse or growth of the young generation of Ukrainians, by the way, for the Kremlin itself. We are convinced that any movement of this minister in the direction of revision and educational reform, as well as patriotic education policy, will be strongly opposed to the Ukrainians. In order not to lead the situation to a sharp civil opposition, our party, the Party “For Ukraine!” is proposing that the Ukrainian audience resign immediately. And we've already registered the Supreme Council ruling today under number 6183. If the so-called coalition is illegal in our opinion, and the government of Azarov will protect this poor minister, we will seek his resignation by all constitutional means, including actions of disobedience, protégéd action, as well as various speeches. We are convinced that this fight will be fought by all those who do not want to allow tobacco users to abuse Ukrainian children, young people, and scientists and educators. I'm sure we'll stop the anti-Ukrainian rematch together. A lot of us can't get over it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u160	Ljasko Oleg Valeriovich, who is given the word of the national deputies Karpenko and Shiskin, is invited to the floor, so it is set for 6 minutes. Next is Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u161	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Yesterday, the whole country, the entire world community, witnessed how in this room, in an unconstitutional way, in violation of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a so-called "Stability and Progress" coalition was formed. The result of this coalition was the formation, illegal once again, of a government under the leadership of Mikola Azarov and the election of ministers of a number of odious persons to show how President Yanukovic would actually strengthen and unite the country. We have to say that in yesterday's address to the citizens of the country, Viktor Janukovic, and then to his voice, Hanna Herman, on the TC channels, acknowledged the unconstitutionality of creating a coalition and forming a government. But they explained the need to break the Constitution with the needs of the country, the need for reforms, which they say is that there is no time to waste, there is a need to quickly form a government, because a country cannot without government and cannot do without reform. In this regard, attention should be paid to the special Pharisee of the Party of the Regions, because the government was actually in Ukraine – the government of Yulia Timoshenko. First, the Party of Regions, together with satellites, illegally resigned the government and then illegally formed a coalition under the need to form a new government. In addition, Janukovic and Herman acknowledged that when the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional the Law on Amendments to the Rules, which allowed for the formation of a coalition and government, Janukovic would dissolve parliament and there would be successive parliamentary elections. What this says to the citizens of the country: both Janukovic and those who put all the feats on him clearly understand the unconstitutionality of their actions: both the formation of coalitions and the election of government. But they go for this because, knowing that the Constitutional Court has already said once about the unconstitutional formation of a coalition of individual factions, and understanding the illegality of their actions, they are trying to get three to four months of time to form their own vertical power to take control of the financial flows, and then, please, the parliamentary elections that will result in the same majority that Janukovich needs to be formed in this room. The President, who begins his work with unconstitutional action, deliberately doing so because in yesterday's address, he says that “I take responsibility for what happened in Parliament”, that is, Janukovic is responsible for the unconstitutional actions of his faction, the faction of Lithuania and the faction of Communists in Parliament. And citizens of the country need to understand that the power that has come to power illegally, contrary to the Constitution, will not take care of them. Remember, fellow citizens, remember, millions of pensioners, such as Yanukovic, Azarov and others, who promised to pay back all of Timoshenko’s debts. Where's the money? Why are you not returning them, the honorable authority that governs both Banks and Gruszewski today? On Monday, we hope that the pensioners will begin to receive the thousands of dollars that Yanukovich and Azarov promised them. Now, a few words about the government, as if reform, which was formed here yesterday. Let's look at the Prime Minister, the reformer. Fifteen years under the authority of Azarov: with Kuchma sitting, with Yanukovich sitting, with the devil sitting, and there is one hope and comfort that his coming into power today is probably the last, because he is 65 years old, but there is a resource that is said to be exhausted. We remember that in Azar’s professional life, there were no wages and pensions for months, no lights in the houses. That's what the professionals used to run the country to do. And you remember the "Azzarland" when a small, medium-sized business leaned down when taxes were collected in advance, when the VAT returned 50-60 percent for the swelling. That's all coming back here today, to the country. Next, about the government of non-professionals, the Tobacco that was just mentioned. You, dear colleagues, tell us which Ukrainianophob is the Tobacco. Yes, Ukrainianophobic, but who brought him to power? Did Yushchenko bring him to power? Yushchenko, who told us that Timoshenko is a non-Ukrainian team, and Janukovic's team is Ukrainian? However, in the form of a non-Ukrainian team, Timoshenko was the minister of education, and at the command of Yanukovic, which Yushchenko brought to power, the minister of education was the Ukrainianophob Tobacco. And who will pull the economy out of the crisis in the government of Azar? A great economist in Cusco coffeehouses, who has the same bearing on the economy as I do on cosmonautics. And these people are going to pull out the economy? Or Tihypco, who sold his 13 percent of the voters and all the ideals he held in the elections, gave up everything he could give up for his office. That is, what happened yesterday in the country hall is to thank the “trojan horses” – Yushchenka and Lithuania. “Troyan horse” - Yushchenko, who destroyed Timoshenko without touching Yanukovich, and “Troyan horse” Litwin, who destroyed the coalition in the Supreme Council of Democracy. And it is because a politician who has at least a drop of morality is to be appointed as Head of the Supreme Council. Our task, the opposition force, is to unite. For if we are different, when we have the opposition of Yatzenuk, the opposition of Martinique, the opposition of God knows who else, only the authority that has come to this power in an unconstitutional, unlawful way will win.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u162	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u163	Shame on usurper! And that's the only thing that's comforting -- this power isn't going to be long-lasting, because whoever illegally gets to power, it's not going to last long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u164	I would like to invite national deputy Andrija Pavlovski to the floor, and Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u165	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Honorable compatriots! We have all witnessed, let's say, a constitutional coup, when, contrary to the 83rd article of the Constitution and the clarifications of the 2008 Constitutional Court, the Party of the Regions, together with its satellites and separate “cartoons” of traitor deputies, in an unconstitutional way, formed an illegal, oligarchi-communist coalition, which in the same unconstitutional way formed the government of Azarov. And this was under the sanctification of Mr. Janukovic, who should be the guarantor of the Constitution, and he begins his authority with a grave violation of the Constitution and the laws. We don't have a guarantor. This was made possible by the betrayal of the Ukrainian cause by both Yashchenka and Yatzenyuk, who traveled through the regions, who urged people “do not go to elections, vote against everyone! ” What? As a result, they brought the anti - Ukrainian criminal horde to power. And what do we have? The government with the Minister of Education by Ukrainianoffob Tobacco? Or were ministers who had problems with the law, some of whom had recently been searched for by law enforcement agencies? And now she has a conscience after having been commissioned by Yanukovich to form a pocket opposition. I want to point out that, despite the world's severe economic crisis, Ukraine, along with the government of Yulia Timoshenko, has endured this terrible blow, and the economy, as shown by objective statistics, is beginning to re-emerge. And the rate of growth in gross domestic product in February-month is 11 percent. Yulia Timoshenko, headed by a united democratic opposition, will support Ukraine and protect Ukraine’s interests. Not like Janukovic and President Yushchenko, for whom it was worse for the country, were they better off from a political point of view. As a result, it is desirable for the government of Azar to maintain this rate of growth. I would also like to point out that as soon as the Yanks came to power, they immediately gave up their social commitments and promises. And we have witnessed how the Law on State Social Assistance did not vote for the underprivileged. Here is the price of their promises. And I think it's going to be a bitter lesson, first of all, for the voters of Yanukovich who believed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u166	Thank you. I would like to invite Vladimir Bondarenko, who is also given the floor by the national deputy Sidelnik. So it's six minutes. Next up will be National Deputy Karpuk. Please come forward, Vladimir Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u167	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Today we have the opportunity to express ourselves from the most topical, painful issues in society. In my opinion, today we cannot ignore the phenomenon that today characterizes, unfortunately, Ukraine is a terrible corruption. From where it came from and how it develops, you can look back a little bit. So we were 80 places in the world, 146 places. Why? And this is the question that we need, the answer to this question, to look into the very government that was represented by President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenk of Ukraine, who was constantly holding coordination councils on the fight against corruption, which were attended by the country's main corrupters, the prosecutor, the Ukrainian Security Service and many other services who listened to him, shook their heads and did nothing to destroy it. Look at what was done, for example, we know that Yushchenkov had the benefit of the State, the people’s benefits, particularly the house in Mižgir Yanukovič, which Yushchenko gave. Yashchenko also gave to those who are in great need of Ukraine some benefits, and I will read only a few paragraphs from his decree. “Save Lithuania and its family for permanent use of House No. 17 in the “Conca-Spa’s” building of the State Administration, the State Administration of Affairs to provide Lithuania with forever transport services, cars and two drivers, to provide Lithuania with benefits in the use of housing, utility services, electricity, telephone and other services 50 per cent and to appoint the former head of the Supreme Council”, he then wrote to Lithuania, “debtful maintenance in the size of the monthly fund for the work of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. So if people knew that, they would think that Lithuania needed this country or not, I think they already know something today, so they're in the election. I'd like to say that the people are wise and even these distributions, they've already given a characteristic in versed form, they're sitting here, I'm seeing members of the Ukrainian Writers' Association, we need to find the author and get him involved. “I served five years in the ranks of the rank, and I even took care of a friend from Mimjørja. Took it from the hands that didn't steal or the hats that didn't break. Now let it work, let it give me a gift.” And I've already given it to you. You see, the people are picking up all these things. I would like to point out that today's new president is demonstrating such standards. It all began with the fact that the faction representing his interests gave no vote in favour of the law on fighting corruption that was proposed here in the Supreme Council and that was going on. Why didn't you? And why they should fight corruption, they are willing to live up to the standards that are and are today. I would like to point out that absolute corruption, in my opinion, is the heads of the National Bank of Stelmacha, who manipulated the bracelet here and back, has led to poverty, and businesses and citizens who don't know what currency they have to keep their modest savings in, have dropped the bracelet from 4.5 dollars per dollar to 10 dollars, so today he's got the indulgence to continue his work. The same indulgence has been given to some other corrupts who have survived from an age, particularly the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, a pensioner who should have been released under the Constitution – he continues to run the Supreme Administrative Court. Because in his time, Zvaric, the one sitting in the Ukrainian Security Service cell, showed him. And these shows show that it is necessary to put the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, not to keep him there in order for him to judge electoral trials properly, that is corruption. And who doesn't know, let them ask. The same is true of the newly appointed Cushka, who was “hanging up” in a criminal case for a long time. And the day before his appointment as minister, the economy was shut down. Why is the prosecutor’s office not acting like the prosecutor’s office? Because there's corruption. 60 with more land in Kiev is taken to the Attorney General’s Office. My 9 requests for oil theft for 71 million at the Kiev TC-5, the TC-6 has been grappling for a year and I have not been able to answer my questions. I think what's going on today will be worthy of the continuation of the one Victor course that continues the second Victor. By the way, I'm going back to the Kiev case, but it's not clear that giving the Order of Jaroslav the Wise and then the huge series of orders that Yushchenko issued at the final stage of his work is also corruption. It's political corruption, it's actually bribery. Because some names are later given in the following very serious financial preferences. Thus, this corruption was exemplified when Chernewsky received “Jaroslava the Wise” and Olesi the Long, who in his life did nothing but distribute land – kept “deserving.” In such a situation, the new President will draw attention to the fact that in the past in Kiev, local council deputies, Korotchin of the Obolonian Council, Lavrov of the City Council, as well as the deputy head of Chevchenko Regional Regional Administration, were detained with full hands of money, and none of them are suspended, because they are either part of the Party of Regions, or the “Chernowsky Block” which is “breathing” today the interests of the Party of Regions in Kiev. Such a course will lead us to a chasm.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u168	Thank you. By the word of Vladimir Karpuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the next will be Yuri Gnatkevitch, who was given the word Prederius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u169	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Since President Yanukovic's entry into office, the Ukrainian language has been strongly energized. On March 9, President Janukovic made the Ukrainian people happy by going to Taras Shevchenk's grave to Canov and claiming that Ukrainian language would develop as the only national language. It would seem that millions of Ukrainians would be delighted that Professor Yanukovic had finally read the Constitution in the 10th article and realized that the national language in Ukraine was Ukrainian. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” warns fellow countrymen of premature joy over the president’s discovery. Because it's not that Janukovic respects the constitutional status of the Ukrainian language, but because he just can't change it, it takes 300 votes in Parliament to change the Constitution and to approve the popular referendum. In addition, this procedure is long and the President would risk not sitting in her chair until the end of it, people would just take it out of the Bank and send it on the first train to Moscow. However, Yanukovic and his party did not give up the suppression of the Ukrainian language, the restoration of the Kremlin’s policy of Russiansification. Having just realized the inability to “push” Russian language through the Constitution, they will try to do so through changes to laws and legal quarrels in places. Thus, more than 20 bills aimed at the destruction of justice, education, medicine, culture, and media have already been drafted. At the same time, the Presidential faction does not support any law that advocates Ukrainian identity or our language. Last week she gave no vote for the law that was supposed to protect the film market from low-test and counterfeit production, only because it confirmed the rule of duplication or subtitling foreign films by a state standard, a norm that was adopted worldwide. By the way, now in the Odessa Film Network “Friend”, “Moscow”, “Star” are showing counterfeit films, copies of American films duplicated by Russian and no one has been held administrative or criminally responsible. On March 9, while Janukovic demonstrated his love for Ukraine in Caneva, the Party of the Regions failed the bill of responsibility for the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people. For the sake of justice, this law would have been voted upon if certain political forces had not been pious at Shevchenk’s monument but had been in it and voted. The Group “For Ukraine!” states that neither Yanukovich nor Azarov, who in principle does not speak the national language, nor Tobacco, nor other anti-Ukrainian politicians will be able to mislead people with empty words, will be given an evaluation on their affairs. And about Volina. I am Volina's representative that the Wallin District Council did not support the President's appeal to give Hero of Ukraine to Stephen Bandera. By the way, the Ukrainian Council has over 50 percent of the representatives of BUTU.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u170	Thank you. I'd like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewicz. The next one will be Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u171	Tymoshenko. Dear fellow countrymen, many of you remember that I was an MP for the first time. And when George Ivanovich Yehanurov came to me on the fifth call, and we were old acquaintances with him, our children were in the same class, he said to me, “Jurius Vasilovich, what is the difference between the first call and the fifth call?” [[I'm in the fifth call.]] And I started to, you know, analyze. Well, from these formalities, let's say we didn't have mobile phones -- we now have mobile phones, we don't have microphones -- now we're out of the place, we've had millions of dollars, but in coupons -- and now there are millions of millions in this Supreme Council, but in euros and dollars. On one occasion, he and I thought that there were not more than 50 deputies in this room who needed a paycheck at all. But the main thing that distinguished the first call was another communist call, where there were about 100 of us motorists. It's order, order in the Supreme Council and order in the hall. We did not row around the hall, and we walked and attended meetings. Look at this. For the Law on Amendments to the Rules and Tossing, we will say, to the government of Yulia Timoshenko, our BJTs voted: Color nenko, Poluniev, Savechenko, Cherpiki. God is with them. We call them traitors. And the thing is, they weren't in the hall. I began to look at their places, so not only were they not in the hall, but their cards were not in their nests. I'm asking, did you start consulting, and where could something have happened? And they say they sold their cards to the faction regions. Whether or not they've sold out. Dear colleagues! Then we can't get out of the faction. This is why they have been deprived of their mandate. And selling, handing over a card to a foreign faction, that's something you can do. And I think we're one step at a time, procedure by procedure, and we're going to work on taking those mandates away from them. Dear colleagues! Actually, we're in a mess. Now our new president wants to keep order, and he's going to be helped by a new coalition, apparently. So this coalition has to start with itself. They have MPs who don't walk that they don't walk for months. And it turns out, I was late one day, I was driving with Rowno after the election process, and the snow was big, and I was late, and I got paid in one day. And it turns out that those magnets that don't exist here, but they only have their cards, they turn out to be paid. They write the corresponding Lithuania and require it not to violate any laws there. I think it's time to consider not going to work as a violation of an oath. Because the MP, when he swore not to violate legislation, and KZOT, these are laws. I was the head of the pulpit, and I felt that he could not be released by someone for one pair. I think the new coalition should bring order to itself. All her magnets, and they're mostly focused there, have to go to work. When we voted for Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u172	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u173	with their hands, and they voted in the absence of many of them and also with purchased cards. I think I'm going to go to Lithuania with an appropriate request and make suggestions for order in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u174	I invite Vladimir Capplienko to the floor. Mr. Volodymyr, I'd like to ask you to join us in three minutes, because there's still everyone here to see Kiselov, and unfortunately we're not going to get to him. So a request for three minutes will be made. The next is Vladimir Yavorowski instead of Unguryan. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Kaplienko, “National Authority”. I would like to refer to the previous MP and say that thanks to God, I was in this room in person. So I don't think those accusations that were our previous reporter apply to me. But I want to start my report. This is what we're talking about. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, Mr. President Victor Fedorovich! I want to draw your attention to the fate of the disabled family, which has been abused by the police and the prosecution for years by trying to make them guilty of a crime they have not committed. The point is that on June 4, 2009, a disabled family member, a pensioner named Mikhailo Gutzol and his wife, a disabled first - group man without both legs, made an attack on KIA’s car. The disabled family’s car is not to be repaired. According to the accident, Michael Gutzol is unconscious, injured, and treated at the hospital for 36 days. I'm sorry, Lydia Guzzol's women are flying off and breaking prosthetics on their feet. They're getting mid-degree damage. Michael Güzola’s car dumps tens of feet [10 m]. The first thing Michael Gutzol saw when he regained consciousness was a DAI Pechersky district worker in Ustenko, who reported: "Well, you fell a boy, you were in an accident with a KIA car driving a senior police lieutenant named Volkov. After a while, it all started out as with the detective. The pattern and protocol of the accident consists of Huzola’s presence and then even his personal signature, which he did not sign. Volkov was a party to the traffic on the side of the document, and the documents show a completely different person unknown to the citizen of Cold. A criminal case is under way. However, the testimony of seven witnesses who saw how this happened when KIA’s car was moving at a crazy speed and almost knocked people across the street. A criminal case is being brought about on the basis of what appears, there was an additional person in KIA’s car whom no one has ever seen — Mr. Cold’s wife, who was injured by an average degree of difficulty. On this basis, a criminal case is being violated, and the Komsomol truth raises the question of the guilty one, Mr. Guzola. It's even about what a forensic expert from all of Kiev's medical offices says is that Mrs. Cold got a concussion and a fracture, although there's no confirmation. Dear colleagues, this has led to the fact that, after a while, both the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office and the rest of the community have turned their backs on Mr. Michael Guzzol, who you all know is a fighter, a disabled person. Dear Mr. President, to your victory you went with the slogan: “I can hear everyone.” Listen to the Hutzol family. Please note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u176	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u177	12 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I ask you to give a separate commission to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Alexander Medvedzk, for a clear violation of the Constitution and of Ukraine's current criminal and procedural legislation regarding the family of people with disabilities, and a clear circular corruption message. Please consider this application as a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u178	I ask the apparatus to form such a reference, and we will correct it accordingly. I would like to invite the national deputy, Vladimir Yavorowski. The following will be the national deputy, Catherine Samuel, who was given the word of the national deputy, Matthew. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u179	Dear voters! I am well aware that today Ukraine has been worried about taking a breath. I literally came back from Kirovgrad yesterday. When I was at the market, rural women came along to sell, there, onions, potatoes. Tears in front of their eyes ask: “Please tell me what will happen to us? What will happen to us?" I think that every wise Ukrainian soul today, indeed, is in great anxiety: this ruin will begin, which they have already waved at, or will not begin. For this reason, I believe it is my duty to make literally several words to those 12 million who voted in favour of us, in favour of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, voted in favour of Ukraine, voted in favour of Ukraine, in favour of development, in favour of European Ukraine and in favour of Ukraine. I understand what's happening in your souls right now. So let me -- it's not just me trying to soften something up there -- I just want to calm you down on behalf of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Most of us, we may still have a few faint, soul-salesy souls left behind, there's a road for them, but most of the Yulia Timoshenko Block is the power that will stand in defense of Ukraine and will stand until the last breath. If Janukovic came, when he was in opposition, came to the session, if I'm not mistaken, seven times at all, Julia Timoshenko would be with us daily. It will govern this opposition, and believe me, for the first time, we will demonstrate that Ukraine is capable of constructive opposition, of patriotic opposition. Because we usually have anti-Ukrainian opposition. For the first time, we're going to have patriotic Ukrainian opposition. I am convinced that we will be able to defend Ukrainian national interests, primarily our language. I also want to address those who voted for Yanukovich. I think a lot of wise people in this second segment today have figured out how they voted and who they voted for. The composition of the government, in which the Tobacco really appeared, gave me the impression that Yanukovich had advised me to appoint the Tobacco Minister Gerinowski and he complied with his request. That's what you have to think, a person who thinks all of Western Ukraine, Galicina, that it's not Ukrainian, that it's some kind of alien, and it's not even known how they formed. That's why I'm warning the parents whose kids are going to graduate this year: prepare the money, they're going to cancel the set of these points there and so forth. The smoker will do it very quickly, they'll do it very quickly. Because of this, I want to tell the voters of Yanukovich: you are preparing to prepare for a whole new life. But they passed a law on increasing your minimum wage and minimum pension twice and said they knew where the money was. Because of this, I wonder why they didn't appoint Papapolo as the minister of finance, if I were to sit down, draw money, and say, "Berry, take it, I'll draw myself." Because of this, Ukrainians, be calm. I'm sure they won't last long with this kind of policy, the ruins in Ukraine won't, we won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u180	Thank you. Samuel Catherine Semenovna is invited to attend, and Sergey Shevchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear Hersons, from this rostrum I wish to greet you sincerely with the Day of Liberation of the City from the German-Fashite invaders. I bow my head to those who died, liberating Harrison, to guerrillas and underworlders, young commodores who did not hurry and gave their young lives for freedom and deliverance. With the festival of deliverance, you honourable men of the land! Unfortunately, the wife of the ex-President of Ukraine, Catherine Yushchenko, who used free of charge, first of all, to protect her exhibition there, arranged for her to be held at the National Museum in the very department where the materials of the Great Homeland War are located, the orders of the Great Homeland War period. In my honor, I think. I ask myself, ‘ How much can we endure? Who is such a citizen to us, to the Ukrainian people, Claire Chumachenko-Jushchenko, who is created by the employees of the district administration, the best friends of the President of Ukraine, stand before her former coworkers of the household? What is this private person’s attitude toward government institutions, using museums, or is he paying money for it, using creative houses, museums? The cynicism of this American lady is beyond bounds because it is in the year of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory that this lady allows herself to be abused by the memory, the historical truth, the feat, the soldiers' widows, the children and the grandchildren of the victors. It's a sacrilege. Is it better to tell the Ukrainian people where she divided the money into a “doctor of the future”? Where's the money? After all, people, including hersonians, gave the final copies for the health of future generations. Isn't that what the ex-president is fighting for? I'd like to go to the Bureau and the Attorney General's Office to verify the legality of all these actions that this lady is conducting. Not her land, not her homeland, so why are we allowing free use of national wealth? So I'm offering it to everyone. Let us gather the last pieces together, if they have little money from the Medici of the Future, and the Scattering Way, let it not touch our shrines, let it not touch the great feat of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u182	I'd like to invite Sergey Shevchuk. And it will end the hour of the “Variable” national MP, Eugene Kzarykov, to whom the word was given by the national deputy Haydayav. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear voters, Victor Janukovic failed to return from the capital of the Russian Federation, when letters from the State Duma of Russia were sent to the Ukrainian National Deputies. The Head of the Duma Economic Policy Committee, some of the Fedorovs, sent a proposal to Ukrainian parliamentarians to set up a single State in the first half of this year, I quote, “the development of the principles of work on reconstruction in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia in 2010-2020”. The first question that came up with the MPs, and who is Fedorov? In fact, we wondered, there is such a Russian politician. Indeed, he is the chairman of the committee. He's also an advisor to the President of the Russian Federation. There are many more regals in the “One Russia” party. Even after learning this information, however, the question arose: Is it a joke before April 1st? Because it is known that Russia and Belarus have been trying to form a federal state for five years, and that is not the case. What is proposed to the Ukrainian deputies? The creation in the territories of modern Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia of a single state with its capital in Kiev no later than 2020. At first I thought that these were the next ideas of our Kiev mayor. But that's not true. Because the principles of integration, as planned in the Russian Duma, must become the consensus of all the political powers of the three nations. So Girinowski and Azarov, Edward Limonov, for example, with Hanna Herman. Then there are the priorities. Among them is the entry into the financial market of the new reserve currency, i.e. the only monetary unit, the creation of a single customs space, as they say, from Buga to Baikal, the only market in intellectual property, the only labour market, the harmonization of tax legislation, the only tax regulation. And in 2017, 100 years after the October coup, according to the authors, a single social state system will be created. What you're going to ask is the state authorities, which, as they produce the rules of harmonized procedures, are going to pass on the functions of national state authorities, as well as the formation of national political structures that will gradually transform, as they say, into a full political party of a single state. And the only professional, full-fledged youth and even creative organizations. The formation of a single banking system is understood to be the only defence body of the army and perhaps the only service or committee of state security. But the process outlined above would not have been complete if they hadn't proposed the next final, this is the general election to the Parliament of a single State and the adoption of the only correct Constitution. It's not nonsense, it's not fiction, it's an obvious strategy of action by a new coalition in the Supreme Council, a coalition of communists, capitalists and all the traitors that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u184	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u185	So I just want to end with these words: people, be careful, we need to do everything we can to make sure that there is no future of such a plan that flows through the capital of the Russian Federation and can be supported by the coalition of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u186	I invite Eugene Kralkov, a faction of Communists, and we will conclude an hour for different purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u187	I would like to say to the previous speaker that you have forgotten that the proposal in this letter to the capital of this State to establish in Kiev. Respectable voters, now on serious issues. On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I would like to address the newly elected President of Ukraine with regard to the opposition and looting, the destruction of the Black Sea Shipping Company by the State, and more precisely what remains of it. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as articles 1.4, 5 of the Act on the Treatment of Citizens to the Coalition of Ukraine, I have been approached by a veteran of the CMPL. For the memory of the Odessites and all of our people, there is indeed a deeply traumatic wound, it is the looting of the MCS. It began in the 93rd year after the historic, coffee shop, President Kravczuk's decree on the basis of which the largest shipping operation in the world was reorganized at the “Blasko” Stock Exchange. A million foreign loans were secured by Ukrainian courts, which because of the conditions previously known could not be returned to investors. Therefore, managers at Kravczuk have decided to sell collateral actions for the majority of CPM vessels to the State to settle global debts. Large amounts of premiums and deductions were transferred to the ex-President's son in the Swiss banks. Later, while speaking to the journalists, Kravchuku repeatedly had to blush for his house in Switzerland. In almost two years, Ukrainian courts were arrested in ports around the world in a well-directed scenario. The most up-to-date and comfortable competitive assets of the MLC have been the object of the hunt for a foreign campaign. The State in charge of Kravczuk did virtually nothing to liberate these courts. Today, many of the members of the FMCA affair, later on – Blasco, have changed posts, positions and moved to less dedicated chairs and have lived quietly for many years for percentages of their foreign contributions. What was the M.I.P.? Not to remind you, at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, 360 vessels were 260 dry cargo vessels with a total tonnage of over three million tons. There were 27,000 people working. Today in Odessa, I will testify that there is only one Hasjibei catamaran, where I forgive the forgiveness of uprightness by loving to eat vodka and no more property, from the point of view of vessels and movable and non-movable property, is not left in this campaign. From above, 22,000 Ukrainian sailors are now working under foreign flags to their country and their families, as if visiting. Before 2009, the observed traces had been replaced by 9 President of the Commission. As you know, the Azov Maritime Cruise has been definitively destroyed, on the border of the Danube Coast, which, by the way, survived the Yugoslav crisis, the Yugoslav War. The faction of the Compartium of Ukraine, the veterans of shipping, also associate this with the fact that there is no State programme for the development of the maritime fleet in Ukraine. Only one is sufficient to pay off the net debt of the PMAs to creditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u188	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u189	For future repayment of all credit commitments, it is possible to obtain data from experts from 8 to 12 per cent of our country's GDP increase. In the past, Yushchenko was approached by hundreds of citizens and our faction, but it was useless. The participants in the bankruptcy of CHN, including Ulyanchenko, were sitting in his secretariat, and Kabmin also had dozens of referrals, but it was useless to address them, as the main figure Kravchuk became the confidant of Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. On the basis of the foregoing, on behalf of the Ukrainian faction, I ask the President of Ukraine to take urgent measures to suspend the bankruptcy procedure and suspend the procedure for the approval of the State shipping company of the MLC. Second. Take measures to recover the property of the MLC which has been illegally estranged. Third. Establish a special public commission of specialists from the Office of the Attorney General, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Mintrans on artificial bankruptcy and the resumption of HSC activities and take it under personal control. Third. The faction recommends that the leadership of the Supreme Council and the leaders of the factions of Parliament consider the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry on this issue. Please consider this statement as a request by the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-12-m0.u190	I'd like to make this a parliamentary question. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that, according to our decision to change the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, from March 15 to 19, the national deputies are working in committees and factions, and the following week, from March 22 to 26, with the electorate. So the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, March 30, 11 o'clock, and the day before, Monday, at 9 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
