ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:12]] There were 394 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I provide you with information on the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 2 to 5 March 2010: 6 plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 39 issues of agenda were discussed: 2 laws and 8 decrees were passed, 15 bills were adopted on the basis of 2 bills for re-reading to the Committee, 12 bills were rejected, 67 parliamentary requests were announced. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, messages, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Mikola Martinenko, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski. Postfaction? If there's 30 minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u2	Dear citizens, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome everyone from the birth of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. I urge you not to divide the Great Cobzar between politics, power and opposition, because a great poet and thinker has made a decisive contribution to the national awareness of all Ukrainians. Let us honor him with our actions for the benefit of our nation. Next. The elections are over, but politicians risk deepening divisions and driving the country into political and economic opposition. This testifies to the exacerbation of the situation in Parliament. The “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction strongly opposes the changes to the Rules, which pave the way for the formation of a coalition with individual MPs. In our view, this is a gross violation of the Constitution, which clearly says that formation of a coalition can be exclusive to factions. If politicians cannot agree and do not want to, the only alternative is to run-off to the Supreme Council. And trampling on the Basic Law will not be understood by either the country or the world that is keeping a close eye on the first steps of the new authority. Unconstitutionally created coalitions and governments will be illegal and will not be able to act effectively. The divisions in society will deepen, and political conflict will intensify. The international image of our country will be incorrigibly affected, and Ukraine will lose its last chance of reform, a chance for normal development. If we adopt the changes mentioned in the Rules, our faction will refer to the Constitutional Court. Action by principle: everything and immediately is the worst possible option for the largest faction in Parliament. This threatens the delegitization of all power, including the new president. No stitching of Ukraine, exhausted by long - term opposition, will be spoken of. The alternative here is going back to the constitutional framework. After all, the creation of the coalition is not a mechanical 226 vote, and that is what we should show by the coalition the direction of development of the state, its internal and external vector. We are open to negotiations with all political forces on the constitutional form of the coalition on the principles of legality and transparency. For our faction, only a coalition with Communists is unacceptable, and that is mutual. There are far too many world - wide differences. The entire experience of parliamentaryism in Ukraine shows that any illegal or out-of-town methods will eventually end in failure. One might mention the efforts of the Party of Regions and the Yulia Timoshenko Block in 2008 to secretly agree on a two-way distribution of the country. Nothing's over. Or the efforts of the Party of the Regions in 2007 to gather MPs to create a constitutional majority have also ended in a political crisis. In today's situation, the newly elected President must join the negotiations to prevent a political crisis, especially since he controls the largest parliamentary faction. The country wants to hear a clear answer: Is Viktor Janukovic ready to contribute to the search for compromise in the constitutional field? The President has every opportunity to take an active position here. Victor Fedorovich is now being pushed into an unconstitutional path. But such temptation can cost both the country and the new authority. And responsibility lies primarily with the head of state. Not only should the President demonstrate the unwavering observance of the Constitution, but he should also not allow it to be violated by anyone else, even if it were his political contemporaries. The election was over, and their winners had to give up all conflict issues first, even if they were pronounced as pre-election slogans. There is a need for a moratorium on a sharp change in public policy on any issue that disentangles society. Today, politicians have their last chance to consolidate and bring the state out of the crisis. I'm sure that will support most of our faction. NUNS does not marry a man. We're talking about principles. For us, the democratic development of the state, Euro-integration, rapid economic reforms are fundamental. If the unconstitutional path of coalition formation is chosen, then the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" defends national interests in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u3	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Alexander Stoyan will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Life’s realities and Ukrainian reality have already proved that much patriotism ends where the tax declaration begins. Similarly, patriotism and concern for people will be the same as that of today’s and the next generation, on the one hand, and the opportunity to make money on lobbying and today’s benefits. All the many arguments and arguments in favour of what Ukraine can and should become a manufacturer, consumer and exporter to the world of high-quality natural, agricultural products are shattered by the personal mercantile interests of importers, producers of products with genetically modified components and their lobbyists in power. The Lithuanian Block expresses deep concern about the state of state control over the spread in Ukraine of food products containing genetically modified organisms. A transparent and established mechanism for labelling GMOs remains uninhabited. Then the Ukrainian consumer, unlike Europeans, does not have any clear information about what product he actually buys and how appropriate the price of the product's quality and safety. In order to protect domestic consumers from harmful foods, a bill was submitted to the Supreme Council by the People's Deputies to provide information on the content of genetically modified components. The bill introduces a clear reference: the product must contain a indication of whether or not there are genetically modified components in it. The bill also introduced a more stringent system of sanctions for violation of the provision. The initiative, supported by the Supreme Council, gained the power of law. Yet, individual lobbyists do not stop trying to destroy the gain. An alarming signal is the efforts of the Ministry of Economics and, unfortunately, some deputies in any way to limit the scope of the legislative act. The recent decision of government officials to abolish the trade mark “without GMO” is not only illegal in nature, because it cannot be made by government decisions that restrict laws and correct them, but also contravenes the spirit and content of the Lithuanian Block of Law and is a further attempt by senior officials to mislead citizens. In the longer term, such actions accelerate the process of converting Ukraine from a powerful natural food producer to a GMO importer. However, the introduction of a widely accepted labeling system is not limited to decision - making by officials. To date, the responsibility of the manufacturer and the seller is vested only in cases where the product does not have the necessary characteristics, cannot be used for the purpose of the purchaser, or if the product has caused damage to the consumer’s life, health, or property. However, it is often impossible to prove that this product has harmed the consumer’s health. As a result, it is impossible to prove the fault of both the manufacturer and the seller, and this vacuum of legal regulation allows skilled businesses to continue filling Ukraine with genetically contaminated food. In today's crisis, consumer protection needs priority attention, and to this end, we urge responsible politicians to show a true patriotic attitude and to support legislative initiatives and measures aimed at eliminating GMOs from Ukrainian products. Great problems await a society in which we tolerate theft. In such a society, state executions, land thefts, and factories, lands, and whole fleets begin to steal mountains. But for the sake of gaining health and the full life of future generations without even considering that “there is no pocket in the coffin, ” it is no longer just a crime, it is a huge sin of forgiveness that is not there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u5	Alexander Pecklusenko has a word from the faction of the Party of the Regions. John Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u6	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Just recently, in this room, one of the MPs of our faction expressed, in my view, a very relevant thought: the time of political speech and slogans must end at some point. Let's talk about cleanliness. Today, no State institution is in full compliance with the laws. The State is held by 99 per cent on the basis of the high principles of self-awareness and lawfulness of the citizens themselves. We, politicians, are obliged to comply with this high awareness of our society and our constructive work and conduct in Parliament. All the elections that have taken place over these decades prove two main conclusions: fortunately, Ukraine is politically diverse; unfortunately, none of the political forces has a blocked popular support package. We need to draw a conclusion from this: there is something missing from each party that the opponents have. One way to change the situation is by making a difference. We are obliged, without altering our programme objectives, to unite voters where we have no differences: combating poverty, combating corruption, combating crises. Today, we all need to define the points in the economic and political coordinates system. Where Ukraine is located, listing possible options for exit, selecting one of the most acceptable options. The political country is in a constant political crisis. Today, there are two units of the executive branch. The first is the regional and district public administrations. Their heads, think! – former representatives of the former President. What kind of work are we waiting for in the executive branch? The second block is the Cabinet of Ministers. All of you know that the Prime Minister and some of the ministers today are on legitimate leave of absence. Another part of the ministers as opposition helps non-members of the board. They say everything is in Greece. There are no such financial, budgetary, social risks in Ukraine today, even in modern Greece. Both in politics and in the economy, the country is living within the limits of what is permissible. In the face of this critical situation, we have three ways out. The first is to create an alliance of factions, with a list majority and a real vote of 226 deputies for the measures taken by the anti-crisis programme of the new Prime Minister, the new Government. Option two. Unless there is an alliance of factions of the list majority, a responsible anti-crisis majority will be created to address urgent issues: the election of the Prime Minister, the appointment of ministers, the formation of the restoration of the functioning of the entire vertical system of authorities to follow up on the main anti-crisis tasks, the adoption of the budget, the creation of conditions for the domestic producer, the business, the prevention of the disruption of pensions and salaries, which is today a real failure, which must be paid in the new social laws, the stabilization of the financial and budgetary sphere of the country. All of this can be done within two or three weeks, at most, to restore all executive power. Once our collective participation has been established and restored, if we do not find balanced compromises and come out of the political crisis, of course we will go with you to the extraordinary regular elections. But it will be under the conditions of the country's power, the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u8	We're offered a third exit. Continue talking and delaying Ukraine at the point of both economic and political crisis. President Janukovic made a clear statement in his recent statements against such an anti-national scenario in the country. I am confident that the overwhelming majority of the members of all factions will support this position of our President.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u9	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovitch, please, from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, is invited to the performance. The next one will be Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u10	Dear voters, today 196 years since the birth of Great Cobzar Taras Shevchenk, the most outstanding Ukrainian, whose words for many generations have been a high example of love for the Fatherland, a living example of integrity of spirit, courage, and self - sacrifice for the sake of Ukraine’s homeland. And almost 150 years since Taras left us. Many things have changed, but we still have much of what the great poet and prophet urged us to fight, there are neophytes, there is no unity, and there is strife. Not to mention the prophetic one: “Ukraine has come to an end; worse their children will break it.” The great poet dreamed of a strong, prosperous and independent Ukraine. And only our generation have had a sacred obligation to fulfill his covenant so that every Ukrainian can proudly say: “We are indeed living in a free, new family. And it doesn't take that much. First of all, to take care of the country and its citizens, and secondly, to live and act by law, both by civil law and by God. That is why Julia Timoshenko today will lead a powerful modern - day democratic opposition in Ukraine. Many are promised to Ukrainian citizens during the electoral campaign. The left side of your promises, my colleague, is actually a repetition of what was actually done by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. And now you have every opportunity to do what is promised. We'll live, we'll see. In turn, we always tried to remember our obligations to the electorate, whether we were in opposition or in power. So today we are initiating those real proposals that relate to raising the standard of living of our citizens, creating conditions for the development of all sectors of the real economy, especially at a time when the economy began to emerge from the crisis. That's why in these days our faction's deputies have developed a number of bills that we're already proposing to consider at this sessional week. First, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. Because of the lack of a clear and clear legislative settlement, our faction in its own time proposed appropriate laws to resolve the issue, but they did not support us. As a result, for many years there has been a great tax burden on production. Under these conditions, it is not possible to build a modern, competitive and socio-oriented economy. Today, we offer a way out of this situation: to lower this tax and call for such an initiative to be supported. A stable economy will contribute to investment and, above all, will ensure the further exit of the domestic economy from the shadow created by the Timoshenko government itself. The second bill that we propose to consider and adopt is the amendments to the Positive Tax Act. This law also applies to reducing tax pressure, it eliminates the systemlessness, a significant number of changes and additions to VAT legislation, tax benefits for individual production and services that disorient the economy. This is especially important now that the country has just begun to rise from its knees after a devastating crisis. The third bill is the amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the Priorities to Preventing the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis. It foresees the exercise by the State of the constitutional rights of citizens to receive primary and life-saving food, medicine and medical services at affordable prices, especially when, as a result of the impact of the crisis, the collapse of the price of food and medicine, the price of money has gone up. This law is designed to protect, first of all, those sections of the population that need special attention and protection from the State. During the election, much was said and often talked about helping families with children. We support this initiative. That's why the fourth bill drafted by our faction is the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, which predicts an increase in payments at the birth of a child. Its approval will not only contribute to raising the standard of living of families with children, especially at birth, it will also help solve Ukraine’s other problem of improving the demographic situation in the state. The next, the fifth bill, is changes to the same law, which foresees state aid to raise a child from the age of three to the age of 18. Another bill proposed by our faction for consideration is the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the cancellation of military service and the transfer to military service under contract]] If we accept it, all the reasons for speculation on this issue will fall away, and the question of forming a professional army will eventually move on from a dead end. Our proposals, as you can see, are aimed exclusively at solving those socio-economic problems that are very acute in the face of our society. So once again, we turn to MPs who identify themselves with the majority: start your work in power, not with the violation of the Constitution, and the attempt to monopolize power, but with the solution of the problems of the state and the electorate. We can be partners in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u11	Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! One of the previous speakers, covering the Shevchenkov days, suggested that the Parliament Hall should move away from politics and pursue economic activities. And I understand that there is a desire to make the plenary hall into a stock market. However, the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine would not allow that. Once again, I would like to speak on behalf of the entire faction, on behalf of many millions of our citizens, on a very important issue. You know that in the wake of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory of our people over the Fascist plague, instead of noting the contribution of distinguished Soviet military leaders, such as Malinovsky, Zhukov, Tolbuhin, Vatutin, Konev, Jeremenko, the political villain Yushchenko has personally assigned to Stepan Bandera the name Hero of Ukraine, responsible for the deaths of thousands of Russian, Jewish, Polish and other nationalities. Bandera, who was one of the founders of the “Death Battalions” Naftegil and Roland. The faction of the Compartia of Ukraine notes that the decrees adopted are aimed at further falsifying Ukraine, distorting its historical past and desecrating the memory of the people. These decrees are a cynical insult to the holy feelings of the veterans of the Great Homeland War, an abuse of the memory of millions of Soviet warriors who have given their lives in the struggle against the fascist invaders and their servants, and of ours with you. As is known, on the day of the inauguration of the President of Ukraine, the European Parliament condemned the decision of the ex-President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, to assign Stephen Bander to the name Hero of Ukraine and hoped for its abolition. This is referred to in paragraph 20 of the European Parliament resolution on Ukraine, for which European MPs, representatives of different peoples, voted unanimously. The European Parliament expressed its regret that the successor of coffee lovers in the German concentration camps assigned the UN leader Stepan Bander a post of almost personality and without constitutional norms. In this regard, the entire European public expressed its hope that the new Ukrainian leadership would review that decision and repeal those decrees. Today, the efforts of all healthy and patriotic forces in our society must be consolidated. That is why the faction of the Company of Ukraine, its asset on the ground, started a number of protests and collected signatures under the heading “No Fascism in Ukraine”. I call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not only for the sake of communist ideology, but for the sake of the memory of our fathers and grandfathers, the programmatic requirements of most of the factions of Parliament, the joint platform of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanuković and the Communist Party of Ukraine, on the eve of the 65th anniversary of the victory of our people as a whole, to support the European Parliament's initiative. On the basis of the mass appeals of Ukrainian citizens, veterans of the Homeland War, the appeals of Herson, Lugansk, Donetsk, Odessa, Nikolaevské oblasvetov, the Supreme Council of Crimea and the multitude of councils of the district level, on the basis of a contract-platform signed by the leader of the left-wing bloc and the Compartium of Ukraine, Petrom Simonenko and the Party of the Regions, Victor Yanuković, on the basis of a resolution of the European Parliament, I formally address the following decrees on behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian Compartija to President Viktor Fedorovic Yanuković: No. 965 – the assignment of Suhević to the name of Heroia, No. 46 – the assignment of the Geroi Bandera Bandera, and No. 75 – the participation of the participants in the struggle for the independence of Ukraine in the twentieth century. Please support this initiative and stop the orange, brown Sabbath in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. Dear colleagues, there are non-fractionals asking to speak. Is there any objection? Well, please. We need to find a place to stay. Well, at least three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is, really, I agree that we have to solve issues with non-fractional ones, because this problem exists. But now that we're back on the subject. Without a break, on the ground of this coalition with individual MPs. And I want to say, in this case, the motives and understanding of this situation on the part of the non-factional. They keep saying that this idea is criminal, adventurous, unacceptable. I have a question: what are the other options? I voted against that resignation until I resigned from the government of Yulia Timoshenko. I officially declared that I voted in the second round for Timoshenko, and I also supported those bills. I now have a question: could we save the old coalition and act in the duumburat of President Janukovic, Prime Minister Timoshenko with his coalition and with the majority? Was it possible? It was possible. We couldn't. You could create an ideal, in my opinion, which I've always advocated as the best, broad coalition of the Party of Regions and the BUIT and take down, at last, this opposition both in Parliament and in the country? It was possible. We don't want to. It was possible to create a coalition of the Party of Regions – NS. It was possible. It was like a willingness. And they claimed, and the readiness was expressed. Don't you dare. The next election is one more option. But let's face it: there may be two or three people in this room who are ready and ready to stand up for this election. Well, Jacinyuk, because he has his strength. Grizzenco. Maybe I am, because I want to see the Tihypak faction in this room. That's it. And that's the end of it. The possibility of working without a coalition in a formal situation of a government performing a duty. It would seem that they could. But it was announced that the government had gone into opposition. It was announced that it would not continue to work. All possible options are exhausted. So I'm like the person who actually voted for this government that supported his ideas, his ideology, and I'm like, what choice does that have? What's worse? I, when we were working, back in the faction of the Party of Regions I was when the Party of Regions went this way, I slammed the door and walked out of this party. So in this case, I think I'm going to stay consistent. And that's somewhere in the position that those MPs who are today are non-fractional. There's no other way out. So I think this is the only way out. Now the thesis on constitutionality. There is the spirit and the letter of the Constitution. The letter of the Constitution, you all know it, there are differences in questions, comas and differences play a role. As a result of the election of the Supreme Council, factions form a coalition, not one of which, but which includes the majority of the national deputies. According to the letter of the Constitution, it is, in principle, real, according to the spirit of the Constitution, what they assumed was obviously wrong, obviously that such a coalition would not exist. If there was another option, I'd be the first to reject it. But today we have to look for other ways out, there is no other way out, let's get on with it. Let's make something work in the country and then after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u16	And then it may be enough to create a real coalition between the East and the West of Ukraine. And last of all, international social legitimacy. If I'm not mistaken, very recently in Romania, there was a completely similar coalition process with a violation of the Romanian Constitution and the European Union, the European Commission spoke in support of such an idea. So there's no problem with the international here, the problem is that we have a disorder that we're always talking about so we can finally find Lukashenko to work for us in the country. And as for social legitimacy, you know, people have our "sandbox" so full of it, people are already sitting in our livers waiting for jobs, and nothing else. And here I have only one reference to those who are the foundation of this coalition, in fact in this format, where the BUT and our Ukraine have refused to join such a coalition, part of Ukraine, all the coasts are left out of this coalition process. Their electors expect from this coalition one not to try to dominate their ideas, their principles. So I have a call, if this coalition is created, a coalition of MPs, to try to do everything not to become a coalition that prepares another explosion, another explosion on the humanitarian, national soil. Therefore, you need to be wise both in one way and in the other, and finally to do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. Regarding the proposals made by authorized factions in need of response, please prepare appropriate assignments and referrals. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the issues set out in the schedule for today. At the same time, I turn to my distinguished colleagues, and I ask my distinguished colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, to take away my symbolism during the break. I beg of you, Your Honor, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't see it then. I thought it was a party flag. Tomorrow, that's it. I apologize to you. Dear colleagues! Let us now consider the issues set by the schedule on Tuesday, March 9. I'd like to ask the honourable colleagues to understand that if there's a proposal from the rapporteurs, from the committees to consider bills on a reduced procedure where it's possible for you to support it. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on the subjectivity of prostitution and increased accountability]] Registration number 1338. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Moskal Hennadiy Hennadiyyovich, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Mosik Vladimir Romanovich. How about a cut? Is it short - lived or not? Dear colleagues! Both the reporter and the committee are proposing to review the bill in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:34:11]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The question is very simple. I just don't understand that there are some factions. What it is, and in prostitution, we can figure it out. In 2009, the internal affairs authorities made up 12,000,450 offences for prostitution. None have been considered. For what reason? Because our legislation has gaps. Such wrongdoings should be dealt with by administrative commissions. But according to legislation, such a right is granted only to the administrative commissions that are in the city councils, and on village councils and rural councils they have no right under the law to deal with such offences. And 90 percent of those who are detained by internal affairs are residents of villages and villages, that is, the lack of legislation and there is nothing to be feared about. There are two ways: either giving this right to rural and rural councils, but it is a collegiate body and a collegiate body that cannot deal with such delicate matters; the second - administrative commission can only consider when there is a person who has committed an offence. Imagine that one of the prostitutes in Kiev would come to a place of residence so that someone would consider the matter in a collective way. So all the work that was done by internal affairs has absolutely no logical completion. Therefore, I propose that this be granted to internal affairs. And there are other suggestions to give this right to the court, but let's take it as a basis and then we can consider other proposals. But I am surprised that some factions have not yet come to terms with this, but have already written proposals: “refuse”, “refuse”. Well, let's leave it as it is! Others say that the police will "breathe". Dear Minister, the place of the Minister of the Interior is vacant, let us choose such a minister in Parliament who would not “crush” any prostitutes, gays or other offenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u19	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please indicate the name on the information board. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u20	Thank you, Gregory Smythech, Party of Regions. Tell me, please, you've been working very long hours in internal affairs, and you know that this problem that you're talking about today -- fighting illegal prostitution is a pressing problem, not as much from the point of view of the Criminal Code or the administrative responsibility of these people who are engaged in this activity, but as much as the general problem and population of our country as a whole. That's the first question, that's the first position. Second position. In view of this, don't you think that for today, which is not why these people are dealing with this issue, but the reason that there is no work for today, and that internal affairs are not coping with their core function is that they are not struggling with these organizers who are organizing all this work? Do you not think that there is a need to strengthen the responsibility of these individuals so that they do not involve our young people in this shameful, so to speak? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that there would be no other unit that would be dealing with this issue with what units that were created at the Ministry of Internal Affairs on trafficking in human beings in the state. So the main task, and you're right, is to show the organizers, the pimps, and so on. And they have a strict criminal responsibility for trafficking in human beings. But if you continue to answer your question, your faction needs to be defined, or leave as it is, or cancel administrative responsibility for prostitution. I didn't set it up, set it up by the Supreme Council. If there is and there is, and there are protocols, there's got to be, well, let's say someone's got to look at them. Today, no one considers them because there is a gap in legislation as to whether people have jobs. Well, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u22	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u23	Today, I think we should cancel the visa-free regime, which is the basis for the expansion of prostitution in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u24	Thank you, Hennady Hennadiovich. Have a seat, please. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u25	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The author reported on the law. There's no gap in the legislation. The law regulates responsibility for prostitution, but in this way only half of the law is in force. And the author of the bill didn't give a number, and I'll tell you that in the last few years, up to half, well if there were 8,000 offences in that category in that year, the administrations only considered 4,000. [[One second]] And so in almost every year 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009, the author of the bill proposes to give these powers to the police authorities who are now entitled to a protocol but have no right to consider these materials. Adminions are complex. They can't be picked up. They work only at their place of residence and at the place where the wrongdoer resides, making it more difficult to consider such materials. In addition, the author proposes to raise responsibility, where there were between 5 and 10 untaxed minimum fines, between 10 and 50 untaxed minimums. The committee supports the bill and believes that the shortcomings identified by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration can be remedied when preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! On the question to the co-conspirator, please register if there are any. Yes, the name of the people's deputies, please show. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u27	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Volodymyr Romanovich, I have a question for you next time. What do you think? Prostitution is a crime, isn't it? And as you think, if the young generation of our girls were involved in the country, hundreds of thousands of these statistics are not just Ukrainian experts, but also foreign experts, where you know that tens of thousands are in Turkey, there are Arab Emirates, there are European countries, and so on. Please tell me, if hundreds of thousands of our young girls are involved in this phenomenon, is it a crime or a crime, or is it a time for Ukraine to do something radical? Or we either recognize that this is a crime and we order it in all the strictness of the law, as it was with the Soviet Union, or we cancel this crime and we bring it into line, as most countries have recognized it as a type of work or activity. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u28	You asked the right question. But this bill deals with administrative responsibility for prostitution. The actions you've outlined are a crime, and it's called human trafficking, and there are other types of crimes for which criminal responsibility is increased. Here we are talking about small cases of voluntary action for which the administrative responsibility is established.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u29	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u30	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Mr. Volodymyr, how do you see this bill complementing the positions that will provide responsibility for another type of prostitution that is equally dangerous to society as traditional prostitution, I mean political prostitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u31	Mr. Jaroslav, your colleagues, each of you will be able to comment on the bill in 14 days. And in this bill, it's about physical, physical prostitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u32	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Romanovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the faction and the national deputies. Please put your names on the board. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u33	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because no one wanted to sign up for this issue. It seems that either no one knows or no one wants to discuss the matter with everyone. In fact, in my opinion, this is our population's social problem. And since we're going to impose fines, one way or another, larger or smaller, I don't think we're going to beat this. In fact, the issue of discussing this issue has matured. And I asked the reporter if I was a crime or not a crime? We have a confession to make. By our Christian morality, this is certainly an antisocial, anti - moral phenomenon. And I think that our nation does not give enough attention to this issue to promote or fight this phenomenon, so that our hundreds of thousands of young girls, beautiful ones, do not go abroad, healthy, future mothers, and then go back to Ukraine and spread this disease, which they often bring from those countries and spread among our healthy populations. And this is a national problem because it ultimately affects my point of view and the democratic state. As far as the bill is concerned, whether or not to refer the matter to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. If society and we as a legislative body recognize that this is a phenomenon, and this phenomenon needs to be tackled criminally or administratively, so to speak, by the punishment of these people, it is certainly a situation that I think the IMF and the units that have to create or expand their numbers to deal with it. Because, in my opinion, the Ministry of Internal Affairs isn't always in this question, so to speak, from the point of view and morality, because abuse in this area is also, they use blackmail or a way of retaining, so to speak, the illegal taxation of these people who are engaged in this phenomenon and so on. As for the reporter, the author, the bill in part of the visa regime. I believe that when Ukraine opened the visa regime, it allowed many countries to be visa-free in Ukraine for up to 90 days. That's the way so many people took advantage of it, who are actually organizing so-called dances in Ukraine. And that's what this is. Perhaps some of you do not know that in Ukraine, the more in Kiev, there are hundreds, and sometimes thousands, so to speak, of illegal nightclubs. And that's what we have to fight. So I support the idea: the first reading of the adoption of this law. Because we need to give this status and sort it out. But in general, I'm calling on the people, the MPs who work on the profile committees: let's do this from the point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u34	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u35	and bring this issue to a broader discussion: do we need Ukraine's healthy and future mothers, who allow us to increase the demographic situation in Ukraine, whether we need sick people, and the state should use considerable resources to continue their treatment. This question is, and I think it deserves attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u36	Honorable national MPs, all who wanted to address this issue, took advantage of this opportunity. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Gennady Hennadiovich, will you conclude? The reporter rejects the closing word. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the subjectivity of prostitution and increased accountability]] Please vote. [[10:49:40]] For-41 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote: to re-read the bill, to re-send it, to the first. [[10:50:05]] For-42 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The draft Act amending article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 1339, is being announced for consideration. [[on criminal prosecutions]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Moskal Hennadiy Hennadiyyovich, co-rapporteur – head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, Mosik Vladimir Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Well, there's probably some factions where my person is causing some kind of aggression, not a bill, because the bill really is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes! So I wouldn't be surprised if another bill was broken, but it doesn't hurt me or the factions, it's for those who obey the laws. The question lies in the alternative to some criminal cases, which today, according to the current criminal and procedural legislation, are subject exclusively to the Ukrainian Security Service, which is the smuggling of narcotic drugs and illegal movement across the state border of Ukraine. These things were relevant until the 91st year. Today I'm counting on the police to do the work, and it exposes them to organized crime groups, and smuggling is just one part of the criminal chain. Therefore, let the Security Service investigate what is on the national border. And if the Security Service worked well, because we wouldn't have any smuggling in the country, and if we had supermarkets full of goods that had never been imported into Ukraine according to the documentation, let's expand these powers, let's just leave what we found. The Security Service found out -- let them investigate, identify internal affairs -- let them investigate. Moreover, the illegal crossing of the state border is usually managed only by the Office of Trafficking in Persons and Illegal Migration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and drug smuggling is detected by the Department of Drug Trafficking. You know that no heroin, no cocaine, no amphetamines, no ecstasy, no other synthetic drugs in Ukraine are produced, they're smuggled. And if there's a trigger, there's obviously a chain of smuggling either from Poland or Hungary or Holland or from other countries. So I'm asking you, honourable national MPs, it's only for the benefit of the state, it's going to totally unload the Security Service and allow it to concentrate on smuggling across the state border. Is there sufficient professional training for the investigating internal affairs authorities? This is not a complex matter. Today, internal affairs agencies are investigating both murder and banditry and the creation of criminal organizations. Thus, generally smuggling, drug smuggling, and illegal movement through the state, across the state border, are part of other crimes. If a group of carjackings are discovered, usually 90 percent of the prestigious stamps go beyond Ukraine. I mean, they're used to stealing cars and smuggling cars. So let's not break this up, because the police are investigating part of it, and the other small segment and the crime scene are being investigated by the Security Service. Let us vote and accept as a basis that this will only improve the functioning of the internal affairs bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, if you have a question for the reporter, please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u39	Dear Hennaday Hennadiovich! Right now on TV on one of the channels there's a show called "Stugger," maybe someone was watching and there's close to the truth, in any case experts are saying, it's showing how the police are "crushing" the drug traffic. And in most cases he could never have been if there had been no commotion on the part of those who were to do so. Do you not think that the implementation of your legislative initiative will simply allow more control, sorry for the jargon, the "crossing" of drug trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u40	The police can only “breathe” what has been smuggled into Ukraine. That's exactly what the bill says. So why is it that if everything is so closed to both customs and the Security Service, it appears here? Where we have heroin, where we have cocaine, where we have other drugs that have never been grown in Ukraine. So it's probably not about the same militia. Let's create another organ, I've long offered to eliminate the Tax Police on its base to create a service or other unit that was engaged solely in the fight against drug abuse. And today, you rightly raised the question that, at the rate of drug abuse, Ukraine is ahead of all European countries. And for two or three years, if we look at the name of the bill's author, or any faction, like it or dislike it, it's going to come tomorrow. What's the truth, kids, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u41	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u42	Gennady Gennadyevich! Gregory Smith, Party of the Regions. As far as I understand what you're trying to take, I understand from your bill that you want a portion of the Ukrainian Security Service to be taken and handed over to the police. Of course, I agree with the view that drug problems, or drugs, that are distributed in our country, will be dealt with by individual departments, or by individual organs in general. I agree that this is the experience of other countries, such as the United States and others, because it was necessary. In this regard, I have the question, Do you not find that we will soon transform Ukraine’s Security Service in such a way as to take away any authority that it will pursue only political gain, that is the first question. And the second question is, remind us, please, and how did this epoch end with the Harkowi militia or those colleagues of the Kharkiv Department of Internal Affairs that were involved in the distribution or crackdown of drugs in the Kharkiv region? Just as you have certainly worked in the Ministry and you know this information in confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u43	Thank you for asking, I will answer your questions. We're not taking anything from the Security Service, and there's a lot of generals who worked, they'll say. I'll tell you one example that the Security Service investigates as many crimes a year as the Yellow District Department of the Interior of the Horn of Curve. So let's not idealize that there are large investigation units there, we're talking about alternative investigation, it's dealing exclusively with smuggling and what's prescribed in the law at the state border, and what's found inside the militia, let the militia investigate in line with others. We do not weaken or strengthen the Security Service. And if the service is to be reformed, this service should generally be engaged in purely counter-investigative activities, as envisaged by both Council of Europe resolutions and European practice. That's why no one takes anything, everything stays in them, only today there won't be any need for the militia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u44	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Your Honor, I'm not gonna ask you if the police will handle this important task, so far she's only dealing with cracking narcotics and making drugs. You want the police to be able to control the smuggling, the export, and the import of drugs. It's a purely lobbyist bill. I'm not going to make any more arguments, but give me an answer to that question, do we have another problem: illegal migrants? Five law enforcement agencies are involved — no one in particular. What has been the success? Hardly any. You want to do the same thing just for drugs and for human trafficking. That's the whole point of your bill. The Yulia Timoshenko faction will not vote for such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u46	There you can vote for nothing at all. It's your right and you don't have to sound it and beat it to other factions. So, who, what, what's he hiding? I don't know, you say, so you were in the coalition and the minister of internal affairs was in the coalition of your block, so who are you accusing, the honourable block. Choose the place of the minister of the interior, free of charge, to choose such a crystal-honest, where the police would not eat a sandwich and a saloon for free. Who forbids you. Well, I'm sorry, you think another minister is coming and the problem is gone. So that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u47	Hennaday Hennadiovich, thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, as decided by the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u48	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich! Dear colleagues! I can see in the mood in the hall that the bill of support is not found. But if Hennaday Hennadiovich had reported him less emotionally, that would have been a good thing. The point is that these three articles are now linked to the course of the Ukrainian Security Service. But there is a mass of crimes, respected colleagues, where there is an alternative to the crime - exposing body and the one who has the right to investigate. Thus, Gennady Hennadiovich proposes that the crimes envisaged in the 201 article “Contrabanda”, 305, “Drugs Contrabanda and 332, “Illicit movement of persons across the state border” be in an alternative proceeding, that is, the one who discovered the crime leading to trial and to the end, that is the essence of the bill. As is practical, half of the cases are found by the police, or perhaps more, a little less by the Ukrainian Security Service. The police are conducting research, violating the case and transferring materials to the Ukrainian Security Service, which is not practical, and the Security Service does not object. Neither does the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and the Committee supports, there is no policy here. And whoever's "breathing," here's a matter of honor, it could be from that department, and from another. The committee's asking you to support this as a basis, and that's the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for a coconspirator? Please, if there is, please sign in. Show me the names of the national deputies who are registered. Gregory Smythech, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u50	Volodymyr Romanovich, Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Please tell us if you are working on a profile committee that the problem of drug abuse in Ukraine is mass and is a phenomenon that threatens the security of Ukraine and the health of the population, that is the first question. And the second question. Whether he is dealing with one of the main Ukrainian Security Services that works or has to work abroad to ensure that we do not have drugs smuggled uncontrollablely into Ukraine and continue to be distributed, that's the second question. And the third question. Don't you think that the border services that we have working with the U.S.S.S.A. today need to do something and fundamentally change some legislators, to regulate these issues so that these bodies can work as they did with the Soviet Union, because I believe that when the border services worked with the Security Service, it was impossible to bring drugs that affected health into Ukraine uncontrollably or smuggled into Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u51	Dear colleague, indeed, the problem of drug use, their distribution is extremely painful for Ukraine. But this standard, proposed by a colleague of Moscow, is about investigating drug smuggling, smuggling. Who will bring those who have been detained to justice, whether the authorities of the police or the authorities of the Ukrainian Security Service? And the author suggests that there be both. None of these powers are taken away, but there is a possibility and a police force, if it has itself discovered during the investigation, let's say other cases that were not drug-related, but were discovered during the search and investigation. So no problem, colleagues, I repeat. But another important problem is that the Ukrainian Security Service should not have law enforcement functions. And we delete the article by article from both the Security Service and the Attorney General's Office's case files so that these authorities don't investigate the case. And that's one step on this big road.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u52	No, that's how the questions were written. Please, I know Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please. Yes, we are. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u53	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Romanovich, I'm brief. You said that the security service is not disputing and ready for the adoption of this law. Please tell me, who in the Security Service gave good news for the adoption of such a bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u54	I don't have any material with me right now, but the Ukrainian Security Service were present on the committee case, and they didn't object, Adam Ivanovich. This position is correct. But here, I say, it's important that the strategic direction is whether the Ukrainian Security Service is a law enforcement agency or whether it should investigate cases like the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office, which is referred to in the transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution, which will soon be 15 years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u55	Yes. Thank you. Have a seat, Vladimir Romanovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the bill. [[Registration number 1339]] First from factions and then from national MPs. Please put your name on the information board. Gregory Smith, faction of the Party of the Regions and prepare for Boris Daych.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I will personally vote against this law. And from what point of view. The point is that when we consider transferring from one body or from another body, we do not solve the matter in the end, but rather the opposite. Then there is the impression that there is no telling who is responsible in our country. And I want to bring that parallel to today. You know that the Security Service in Ukraine was with the Soviet Union -- it was a political body or a punitive political body. She's still political today. Only it has turned into a corrupt service that corrupts our business. And that's why today we have the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine, tax inspection and so on, and so on, and so on, the organs that we've produced with you, who are sitting there, like parasites on these businesses that we have working for us or those businesses that are doing anything in the country. Because soon there will be no one to work in our country. And we give birth to organs on the one hand, and we give birth to competences to these organs that they do. And what do they do? They're doing, in fact, cracking. I think it's time we understood that we should remove any organ that can affect the economic issues that affect development in the country at all. As for the competence of closure of borders or national security, or the security of the entire population of our lives and the health that threatens us, it is for these authorities to deal with them day and night. That’s what it feels like to have the Security Service tomorrow when we hand over internal affairs will be nothing to do with the political gains and what our business is hiding. You don't know what the Security Service is doing in the area? She's investigating espionage issues, which are, or national security. All the district security services in the unit are engaged in a crackdown on the economic plan. They are lobbying their interests, covering their own, and undoubtedly earning as parasites. So, in my view, the whole question needs to be solved. Some functions should be carried out by the Security Service as a whole and some internal matters as a whole. And as long as we don't professionally assign people to these positions, and not any dilettarians will fit either those who don't have or close to understanding what the internal affairs authorities or the Ukrainian Security Service are, until then, we'll have such legislative acts. Because no service has made a comprehensive reform of this problem that we have. Today, we have this problem in general with law enforcement agencies. So I think that the new President and the new coalition that will be created this Sunday should pay attention to reforming these bodies and giving them a clear position on what they should do. Not what it's all about. So my point of view is that we need to get this bill back to the authors of the legislative initiative and look at this in the context of reforming the internal affairs or law enforcement bodies as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Please, Sergey Shevchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u58	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, something didn't record my speech. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The essence of the bill is that the task of controlling trafficking in human beings, of living goods, and of drugs are transferred not only to the Ukrainian Security Service, but also to other monitoring bodies, not only to the police, but to many others. At first glance, this proposal has some arguments because the problem seems to be known, the problem is big, and Ukraine is always mentioned in the context of trafficking in human beings, adolescents, or human organs. Ukraine is known to be the route of distribution of heroin, opiates from Afghanistan to Europe. Let me remind you that the profit, the profit from this activity, is 14,000 percent. So it is natural that Ukraine, which occupies a large territory, is involved in this complex problem in some way. But the question is, would it allow such distributions to deal with smuggling, drugs, or the benefits of living things? Again, I can give you an example of illegal migrants. Five authorities are officially involved in this problem, and no department is responsible for anything. Therefore, if we give orders to other law enforcement agencies, besides the Ukrainian Security Service, to deal with issues related to trafficking and drug smuggling, this will lead to a blurring of responsibility. I don't want to repeat the allegations that I've already said about roofing, about other things, it needs to be proven and they will be proven, but for today, and this is the conviction of me and my colleagues, we can't give such permission to representatives of other force structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Gennady Hennadiovich, do you insist on the closing word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is the problem of faction leaders for the poor selection of factions and deputies. What are you saying? The Security Service has only central equipment and district investigators. And the question was why they refused. They lack investigators because the number of smuggling, drug smuggling, and illegal crossings of the State border of illegal migration is increasing. And will the Security Service investigate the smuggling of Lexus from Ukraine to Russia? Well, is this the Security Service? Come down to the sinful earth, look at the structure. One question is that in Parliament today you're being taken away from prostitution and smuggling, there's no more problems. Your Honor, I don't care if you vote or not. This is a representative of internal affairs, tomorrow your minister will come face-to-face with the same problems as he was, and we'll re-deploy the protocols on prostitutes to send grandpa to the hamster for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u61	Yes, the honourable people's deputies, the bill is closed. Please take the position of the Ministry. Will you talk? Deputy Minister Verbensky Mikhailo Georgievicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of this bill is that if a number of crimes have been detected in an organized criminal group and smuggling among them, internal affairs authorities have the right to investigate these crimes without transferring them to another service. Everything that's happening on the border that's being held down by the Security Service, no one's taking those powers away from them. So you can decide, but this will make it much easier for you to investigate criminal cases more quickly, and it is the organized criminal groups involved in drug smuggling and other crimes that will be called to account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 112 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[on criminal prosecutions]] Please vote. [[11:16:44]] For-26 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the bill's registration number 1339. [[11:17:10]] For-31 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on informing the heads of public law about the state of legality and measures to strengthen it is under consideration. [[Registration number 1448]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Grezak. He will also act as a co-reporter from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill No. 1448 proposed by the National Deputies of Olijnik and Gritsak, aimed at establishing a mechanism for implementing the legislative principle of transparency in the activities of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies and ensuring that the public is properly informed about the state of law in the fight against crime and the protection of public order, since the principle of transparency in the activities of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies is not implemented properly and the mechanism for its implementation is not clearly established in legislation. The project proposes to improve public information by law enforcement officials on the state of legality in the fight against crime, the protection of public order in the relevant territory, and the results of activities at open plenary meetings of relevant media outlets. In particular, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Prosecutor's Office, on Police, on Local Self-Government. The proposed amendments to these legislative acts will ensure that citizens have adequate access to information on the state of law in the fight against crime, public order and the results of law enforcement. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, a draft law on the results of the first reading is proposed to be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered this issue and has asked you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u65	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u66	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter! Of course, it is necessary for the public and other authorities to know about organ activity. But tell me what you've been listening to and what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u67	First of all, when the district or city council reports to the head of the police or the prosecutor’s office or the Ukrainian Security Service, an official document is received. Not just words or things that send their ministries and departments. This information is also available in the media. And on the basis of this data, journalists can also conduct their own journalistic investigation. To deny: It may be true or false. This question becomes a matter of publicity, of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u68	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Names, please, on the board. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u69	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I asked for words in order to find out the fact that it was for example. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has many complaints, letters. And if you look at the proportion of these letters in the general range of correspondence, almost half of them apply to the work of law enforcement agencies, and, more specifically, to the dissatisfaction of correspondents, Ukrainian citizens by the work of law enforcement agencies. Much of this correspondence, these letters are such that people lack information about the real work of law enforcement agencies. So I said that because the idea of the bill is logical, it's the right idea. Because for many years, I don't want to talk about just the past period, and really for many years, informing the public about the work of law enforcement is a formal one. And that's because, in fact, the main links go to the numbers. You and I are well aware that the number of open cases, open cases and so forth, is far from always an adequate quality of the work of law enforcement agencies. There used to be a firefighter system like this, they say it was, maybe it wasn't true, but I think it's true that the performance of the fire crews was estimated by the number of fires put out. And they say that sometimes there were fires on the trash, which were quick, efficient, and well disposed of. So the very approach to essentially quantitative information is not enough. I'm not saying that it has to be completely rejected, but it's not enough. And what the bill suggests is that law enforcement officials have a full range of assessments, with an analysis of reporting to the territorial communities, is obviously correct. The only thing you can't agree with, and obviously we need to support the opinion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that according to article 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine, areas and areas are a territorial community, and in the bill they fall under it. So it's obviously worth writing down that the heads of law enforcement agencies inform not the territorial communities, but the population, the citizens of the respective administrative and territorial unit. Then it would be right, then it would be legally correct. In principle, the bill deserves support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! All those who signed up were given the opportunity to comment on this. Is there no other way of thinking? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine to enact a draft law on the basis. [[on informing the heads of public law enforcement about the state of legality under measures to strengthen it]] [[Registration number 1448]] Please vote. [[11:25:13]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Please, it's Vasil Gritsak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, simply the MPs have not been able to vote, is an offer to return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u72	I'm betting on a motion to return to the bill. [[Registration number 1448]] Please vote. [[11:26:06]] For 228 They went back to reviewing the bill. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the draft law as a basis. [[Registration number 1448]] [[11:26:31]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conciliation Council discussed the question of considering Bill 6137 when it would be handed over to the Ukrainian National Deputies. This is a draft law approving amendments to article 61 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the order of formation of coalitions of MP factions. The reporter is Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on 9 March this year, the Committee considered the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Efraemova, Sasa, Zvarič, Stratovič, Lavrinović, Karmazin, Katerinczuk, Podgorno, Pavlovski, Knyazević, Martinyuk, submitted to the draft Ukrainian Law on Approval of Amendments to Article 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted on 4 March 2010. [[about the formation of a coalition of MP factions]] The committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules of the Ukraine Act of 03.03. [[Registration number 6173]] 2010 prepared for and support the second reading. We gave special attention to articles 22, where we noted those comments that were made by colleagues in the hall, in the proposed section. Article 61 of the Coalition Agreement adds a list of national deputies forming a coalition to add: “With the personal signatures of the national deputies. Such a list is an integral part of a coalition agreement. Also in the fifth paragraph: the report on the formation of the coalition, the coalition agreement and the personal composition of the coalition not later than four days after the official announcement in the plenary of its formation is published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the amendments. Amendment number 4. Sergey Sass, are you insisting on her? Don't insist. Amendment number 5. Roman Welder, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I insist that amendment number two, which was introduced by the People's Chamber of Ephraim, nevertheless, be counted by the committee. I insist that it be voted on. As in, all of the following, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u76	Okay. I'll bet on the vote for amendment number 5 of Roman Zvaric, please. What? Okay, come on, do you insist on 1 correction? Okay. Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 1 of the People’s Deputies of Ephraim has been taken into account. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, I am voting on the approval of this amendment, Amendment 1. Please vote. [[11:30:40]] For 233 Correction supported. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Ephraim, it is counted by the Committee and I vote in favour of this amendment. Please vote. [[11:31:07]] For 234 Correction supported. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Ephraim, it's counted, I'm putting it to the vote to confirm this amendment. Please vote. [[11:31:34]] For 235 Correction counted. Sergey Sas doesn't insist on the 4th amendment. Don't we put it to a vote? I'll bet on the vote of amendment number 5 of Roman Zvaric. The committee. Please, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I draw your attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court at number 16 of the decision taken. Since 2008, September 18, 2008. This decision reads as follows, I quote: “In the context of the constitutional question of "the coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine" contained in parts six, seventh, ninth, of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the number of national deputies made up most of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be understood. So, given this position of the only body of constitutional jurisdiction, there is no possibility for the Ukrainian people's deputies to individually join the coalition. So I propose that these words of the people's deputies be removed from.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u78	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u79	We have considered these issues on the Committee. I would like to make some clarifications. First, when the Constitutional Court took those decisions, there was no Rules as a law, and at that time, in the Rules that were published, we enjoyed them, these articles were not introduced at all, this is the first. There was no consensus in the consideration of this issue by the judges of the Constitutional Court. Reference was made to the record of the judges of the Constitutional Court on this issue, which, inter alia, emphasized the need to take into account the individual composition of the people's deputies who may be members of the coalition, that is, read carefully. Therefore, with the introduction of the Law on the Rules, we will need the Constitutional Court to either confirm this rule in the light of new circumstances or deny it. This decision is therefore solely the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to put to the vote a further amendment to Sergio Sasa, because the requirement was for all amendments to the vote. The committee rejected it, but in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the adoption of this amendment. By vote, please make up your mind. [[11:34:45]] For-127 No correction supported. Now I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 5 of Roman Zvaric. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:35:06]] For 116 No correction supported. Amendment number 6 Volodymira Stretovic. It's the same, and I'm putting it to a vote. [[11:35:35]] For-125 No correction supported. Amendment number 7 Yuri Karmazin. The committee turned her down. I'm putting her to a vote. [[11:35:59]] For-92 No correction supported. Amendment No. 8 Mikoli Catherinechuka. The committee turned her down. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. [[11:36:26]] For-100 No correction supported. Amendment No. 9 of the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy. The committee turned it down. Is there a Pavlovsky national MP? None. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. [[11:36:54]] For 105 No correction supported. Amendment 10 Sergey of the Undercover. Microphone, please, Sergey of the Horseman.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u81	Dear voters! I'd like to point out that right now there are two girls walking around the hall who are just giving out a table of comparisons that the MPs are already voting on for a few minutes. That's the first one. Secondly, according to the Rules, the reduced procedure provides for a reduction of the deadline for amendments to 7 days. This term expires only on Thursdays. So today, tomorrow, we can make adjustments. Thirdly, the table distributed to the second reading should be distributed to the deputies no later than 10 days before the question is addressed. So what's going on in this room is political banditry and no more, no less. I point out that the majority of the deputies who made the amendments are unfortunately not in the room right now. They would probably be if they knew that the question would be considered, but he was not in the daytime. That's why I understand Mr. Ephraim, who is used to banditry there on Donbassa, but I don't quite understand Mr. Litvin, who went down to banditry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, please, calm down. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u83	I would like without emotion, but I would really like to remind you that there was a reference to the Rules Act in the case of the Head of the Rules Committee. So I would like to say that if we refer to the Law of the Rules, it is not to his own article but to the whole law. Therefore, the remarks made by counterpart Sergey Podgorny in part of compliance with the Rules in the consideration of this bill may be worth listening to. As for the 10 amendments in general, I'd like to pay attention, they're identical to the constitutional text. So I'd like to hear some reflection, which is why the Rules Committee proposes to reject constitutional norms?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u84	Honorable National MPs. It's not a discussion. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, the author of the amendment is, let's do it. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 10 of the Horn. [[11:39:33]] For 116 No correction supported. Amendment 11 Sergey Sasa. The committee turned her down. I'm putting her to the vote on this amendment. [[11:39:57]] For a hundred and No correction supported. Amendment number 12 of Romana Boiled. Roman Mikhailovich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I quote again from the same decision of the Constitutional Court, which rendered a decision among others, an honourable report, on the submission of the national deputies represented by the national deputies at the time by Lavrinović and Lukash, they asked that the interpretation of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine should be given and that, to this day, the non-existent provisional Rules should be given. So I would like to quote from this decision: “The power of the population of Ukrainian national deputies, who form a coalition of MP factions as part of the MP factions, refers to both the moment of formation of the coalition and the whole period of its activities.” Thus, only the national deputies of Ukraine, who are part of the coalition of MPs who formed the coalition, can enter the coalition. It's very clear, there's no question at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u86	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u87	where the Constitutional Court of Ukraine stands. So what you're proposing doesn't fit the Constitution of Ukraine. I propose that my amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u88	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 12 of Roman Zvaric. [[11:41:51]] For the 120th. Correction not supported. Amendment 13 Volodymira Stretovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, and the committee has rejected it, so please identify yourself. [[11:42:16]] For 104 No correction supported. Amendment 14, Mikoli Catherinechuca. The committee turned her down. At the same time, I put her to the vote. [[11:42:39]] For 111 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 15, People's Deputy Ephraim. The committee counted it. I'm voting on the approval of this amendment. Please vote. [[11:43:05]] For 244 Correction counted. Amendment number 16, Sergey Sasa. The committee turned her down. In accordance with the Rules, I put it to the vote. [[11:43:32]] For-95 No correction supported. Amendment number 17, Romana Zvaric. Microphone, please. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 17, Roman Zvaric. [[11:44:01]] For-99 No correction supported. Amendment number 18. Please turn on the roman welder microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u89	If anyone else is interested, I will quote another quote from the Constitutional Court's decision to confirm once again, at least in the transcript, that what you're doing is really political banditry. I quote: “The specified analysis gives reason to conclude that the Constitution of Ukraine has identified the entities of the coalition of MP factions — the MP factions. ” So if the MP is a group of Ukrainian national MPs elected by the electoral list of the respective political party, then the coalition of the MP faction consists of MP factions that have formed a coalition of MP factions based on elections and agreed political positions. There is no room for individual membership of the Ukrainian National MP in the coalition. So I propose that I take my amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u90	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 18 of Roman Zvaric. [[11:45:29]] For 114 No correction supported. Amendment number 19 Romana Zvarič, the committee considered it in part. Well, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u91	I disagree with the committee's proposal. I still insist on voting on my amendment in the original edition, as I submitted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u92	Well, I'll put it to the vote in your paper first, and then I'll put it to the committee. Is there no objection? I'm voting on amendment number 19 in Romano Zvaric's editorial. Well, make up your mind, MPs, vote. [[11:46:19]] For 109 Correction not supported. Well, let's go clean. I'm voting amendment number 19 in the paper. What? Well, it's counted, let's vote again then. Adam Martinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Roman Mikhailovich wants you out of the way. We've already made this amendment, this is Amendment 15, the number of votes 244 has already been voted on. This amendment to the committee, similar to that of 19th Roman Zvaric, has already been voted on. So once again, the committee's amendment doesn't make sense; it's got 244 votes. 15th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u94	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask that we read the exact list of national MPs who formed the coalition with the signatures of the deputies. This is the version of Ephraim’s voted amendment. The cook’s amendment refers to the list of members of the parliamentary factions, which is an integral part of the coalition agreement. The content is different. It's about the MPs who formed the coalition, it's about the factions that formed the coalition. That is, differences in the formation of coalitions. Therefore, the content of the amendment is different. And I think we should vote. I don't know what you're afraid of, but you have voices.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, 109 national deputies voted in favour of the amendment. Correction not supported. Amendment 20 Yuri Carmazin. The committee rejected the amendment. But I'm putting her to a vote. [[11:48:22]] For-86 No correction supported. Correction of the People's Deputy, Catherinechuk. The committee considered it in part. We've already voted on it. It's 15 o'clock, I understand. At the same time, I'm going to put this amendment to the vote -- 21st, let the MPs determine. [[11:49:01]] For-88 The correction's off. Amendment 22 Alexander Lavrinovich. So you're filming? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, this amendment is taken into account by the committee in a different edition when voting for other amendments. We can vote in the committee's editors so that there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u98	I'm voting on Amendment 22 Alexander Lavrinovich. The committee considered it editorially. We need to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:49:57]] For 235 Decision taken. Amendment 23 of the People's Deputy of the Horn, please microphone Sergey Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u99	Dear voters! Once again, I point out that political banditry in the Supreme Council is continuing to be considered in violation of the Rules, the so-called Amendment Bill. With regard to this amendment, she foresees that, in fact, only after consultations, only after each faction that intends to join the coalition will hold its own meeting and make the right decision, is it the decision of these factions and the formation of a coalition. And the agreement is made accordingly, and these are the decisions of the factions that are added to the agreement. Unfortunately, this is not all there today, a few MPs I think like to be called "cartoons," they want the faction, the coalition is formed by "cartoons," and they vote for these changes in the violation, I say again to the Supreme Council Rules, which is the law today. And I have a question, Vladimir Mikhailovich, why are you violating the Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u100	I answer briefly that I am not in violation of the Rules; today the Conciliation Council asked this question and everyone agreed. To consider this question today. Please talk about this on the Conciliation Board. I'm voting for amendment number 23 Sergey Podgorny. The committee has rejected it. I'm asking the Supreme Council to decide. [[11:51:52]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Amendment 24 Yuri Karmazin. I'll put her to a vote, please. [[11:52:18]] For-66 Correction not supported. Amendment 25, Alexander Ephraim. The committee counted it. We need the Supreme Council to look at it for confirmation. I'm voting on the 25th amendment, please vote. [[11:52:47]] For 235 Correction counted. Amendment number 26. Yuri Carmazin. The committee rejected the amendment. I'll put her to the vote. [[11:53:09]] For-74. Correction not supported. Amendment number 27. Caterenchuca’s Mikli is rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. [[11:53:31]] For 104 No correction supported. Amendment number 28. Adam Martinyuk. The committee counted it. I'll bet on the vote on the confirmation of Amendment 28. Please vote. [[11:53:59]] For 238. Correction counted. Amendment number 29. Romana Zvarilla. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly propose to introduce a new term, namely "teacher". I'd like to base my position. In order for voters to understand how their will is done, certain lists are published in the newspapers. The voters are not interested in who joined the coalition, and the voters are likely to be interested in who betrayed them. Who betrayed that mandate, according to which they became Ukraine’s national deputy. So I seriously propose instead of publishing a list of national MPs who entered the coalition, a list of those traitors who, contrary to the will of their faction, did sign such a coalition agreement despite the will of their constituents, thus creating a constitutional coup d'état in the country. I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u102	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u103	Dear Roman Mikhailovich! We have studied your proposal quite thoroughly in the committee, but given that you have carried out the entire election campaign, not in our Ukraine's Block, but in the Yulia Timoshenko Block, you are probably conscious of the fact that you are actually correcting what you are advocating today. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't think we need to do this right away, at least from the point of view that I don't want to glue labels, including on your person.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u104	Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Alexander! That's the only argument you can actually make, it's essentially pervasive. I mean, if it's him, then I'm all the more convinced that we should vote for this amendment. Because what you're suggesting is actually a constitutional coup, if you start your new era after the presidential elections, then I'd like to warn you one more time: as you begin, that's how it ends. Don't do this. Because it will be. He's going to give this House a hard time. And you can't work in it. Surrender! Stop this circus you're not just imposing on Parliament. But if you'll excuse my words to the newly elected president.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleague, the author of the amendment! I think there's a way to put it at the rally, any grades, any tattoos. You are a highly educated man, Roman Mikhailovich, so bring your amendment to such an appearance that it can be used. Then she will vote, and I would ask you as a lawyer not to do what you do. This amendment to the vote will not apply. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can read the terminology there! I'll just replace the word there and read the text of this amendment. Part six of article 61, which reads: “The text of the coalition agreement, the personal composition of the national MPs is published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine no later than four days after the official declaration of the formation of the coalition”. Now, I'm going to put it to a vote, and I'm going to ask the MPs to identify themselves. I want to say again: Learn basic courtesy! In Ukraine, they learn to be tolerant! [[11:57:51]] For 133 Amendment No. 30 of the Karmazin People's Deputy, the Committee has rejected it, I'm putting it to the vote for this amendment. [[11:58:24]] For-98 Correction not supported. And Amendment 31 of Ruslan Knazevitch, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich! We must not call on anyone to comply with the Law of the Rules if we are consciously observing it here and do not follow it here. What do I mean? In addition to the 60 articles of the Rules, there is article 94, which says that all bills should be subject to the Committee's knowledge of the constitutionality of the bill. Such a committee is the Committee on Legal Policy and, if there is a special conclusion of this committee that the bill is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, it returns without consideration to the author of the legislative initiative. Please tell us on what basis the Committee on Legal Policy did not have this bill and could not conclude on the terms established by law. Because I am convinced that all members of this committee, whatever faction they represent, including the faction of the Party of the Regions first, would vote in favour of such a conclusion because it is a gross and deliberate violation of the Constitution. So I think that as long as there's no relevant professional conclusion, we can't essentially vote for this bill, and that's why we're going to the Legal Chief Executive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u108	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u109	As long as there is no such conclusion, it is not up to you to draw any conclusions, it is not up to your authority, it is the exclusive mandate of a profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u110	Yes. Dear colleagues, then, Amendment 31 by Ruslan Knazevitch. The committee turned her down. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. [[12:00:22]] For a-117. Correction not supported. So, dear fellows, all the amendments were. I've seen it. Dear colleagues, one minute before the vote. Please, Ivan Kirilenko. Who of “our Ukraine ”? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the issue is not amended. What is more, does he have the right to a life form that is formed in violation of the law and the Constitution? Where? In the Supreme Council Hall? Because of his knee, the same creation was sanctified here, and how did it end exactly three years ago? Remember, colleagues. Yes, indeed, the situation in the country of pathos. It's bad, we understand. But who voted in favour of such a constitution? We did not vote, but the Constitution is and is the Constitution. Whether you want it or not, the way out is to create a real coalition, not the ephemeral one that is being done today. Or a way out of a temporary election. And the date is clearly calculated, on May 30, along with the locals that we've, by the way, cut off anti-constitutionally. We hope that this is the way the President will go, not the way of a farce. Which is being played today in the Supreme Council Hall. Besides the farce, we call it the constitutional coup. Fellows, what are we doing?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u112	Dear National Deputies, who have not spoken on this matter since the faction? Please, Anatoly Gritsenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you personally. Vladimir Mikhailovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u114	Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u115	To you personally. Today I attended a meeting of the Conciliation Council. There was no reason to submit this document now, today. Because the two factions, BUT and NUL-NS, denied the issue. The rest of the factions that supported it, they didn't have 226 votes, you didn't have the right to put it today. That's the first one. Therefore, it was necessary to vote for inclusion in the agenda. This was not done. The other one. You've just heard two more basic warnings. Not all national MPs have exercised their right to amend their second reading. They were limited in time. They took it out early. Third. The committee of profile, not the committee represented by Alexander Efraemov, did not say his word. I am addressing you: you do not have the right as Head of the Supreme Council, who not only will pass this bill, but also hundreds of others, to put it to the vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Who else insists? Please, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! The question that we have been considering is, of course, not entirely clear from the point of view of the current Ukrainian legislation. But the reference to the fact that we cannot now consider what should have been included in the agenda is that all of these issues are addressed in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For Anatoly Stepanovich, who shakes his head, I'll say that there's an article that says that for the second daytime reading of the projects, they're not included in the voting order, they're included in the submission of the relevant profile committee. The Regulatory Committee deals with changes to the Rules. As far as other positions are concerned. You know, the sixth part of 83 articles of the Constitution has two mandatory conditions for forming a coalition and for living. It is for it to be created by the factions of Parliament and for it to be composed by the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies. It is said that most of the national MPs should be in the coalition. Whether these deputies should be in the coalition of these factions, part six of the 83 articles of the Constitution does not speak. As for the Ukrainian history of applying these standards, you're interested in history. I'll tell you from history. Spring 2008 was 227 and turned into 225. There's no sign of it. It's okay. We've created two factions, the coalition works. It's the fall of the same year. A coalition of three factions is formed, comprising 212 national deputies. Where the second sign is mandatory, constitutional, it did not bother you. So what I want to say is that what was done in 2004 after the amendment of the basic law would have a huge problem in order for the state administration system to function. And today we can talk about what is suggested so that the two signs will necessarily be kept, that the factions will decide and that the individual signatures of most of the constitutional composition will be made. To what extent this can be interpreted in a constitutional court, how much this corresponds to 83 articles. I know that there are promises, there is a desire, the Constitutional Court will consider, express its point of view, and this decision will be final, and there will be no accusation. Parallels since 2007 I would ask you not to point you out because these parallels not only lead to a demonstration of right ignorance, but demonstrate the steps that will have to be taken in the future. Because both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court and the Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Council of Justice were trampled. So if I were you, I wouldn't even try to mention that period, a period condemned by all European institutions. So I ask the people's deputies to support this bill and put a dot in the approach so that constitutional authority can be formed in Ukraine and that the governance system works in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, and I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we now vote as a whole as the law of the right part, that is, the changes that have been proposed by the Main Committee in the final edition, what we have clarified with you today. So once again, I ask for the protocol to stress that we are now voting as a whole as a law in the paper that the Main Committee has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the bill approving the amendments to article 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[about the formation of a coalition of MP factions]] Please vote. [[12:07:28]] For 235 The law is passed. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u121	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that they can continue their work. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 218 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[on the duties of the investigator]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Sweden's Law Enforcement Activities, Viktor Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u122	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, this law is designed to prevent the falsification of evidence in criminal matters. One way to falsify a criminal case is that after the accused, the lawyer will get to know the material of a criminal case, additional materials will be added to the criminal case, changes, additions and so on. And so I'm proposing to amend article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which makes it impossible to falsify this way. I want to say the next thing. If you know how criminal materials are formed -- and God forbid you ever know how they are formed -- so if we take this book as an example -- and this is a criminal case -- well, the last list of this criminal case is a protocol to familiarize the defendant with the criminal case and his lawyer. And the first two, three, four, five, ten sheets is a description of these materials in this criminal case. And so when the investigator gives the right to familiarize himself with all criminal matters, he gives one description, and there are completely different materials coming to court. Why? Because this description, he's not giving it to anyone, the defendant doesn't get it, the lawyer doesn't get it, this description. Clearly, then, it is the course of investigators, who are dishonest, so softly speaking, carrying out their duties, and at all costs he wants to make the criminal case the way it is. whether to put evidence there so that neither the accused nor his lawyer will be familiar with it. So all of the conclusions of the scientific and expert management, the committee is positive about this. This really gives us a sense of concern about the constitutional rights of defense attorneys. And so we give the "stop" to those investigators, those "actors" in the paws that fake criminal cases. The only thing the science department says is that such changes should be made in the 217th article of the Criminal Procedure Code, which states that the materials of the criminal case have been examined and injured. So I can say that this bill was introduced by me a few months ago with regard to the amendments to the 217th article of the Criminal Procedure Code, which would also give victims the same right in criminal matters. It is clear that, with the adoption of this Rules, we cannot, until today, prepare the second reading, article 217, because this is forbidden by the current Rules, that in a separate article, if this does not apply to a specific article that is proposed to be amended, these amendments are prohibited. So I'm just asking that the committee be instructed to prepare this bill for your consideration. And I ask you, National MPs, to support this bill as a whole, because it is impossible and inappropriate to change another way of saying 218 KPC. So please support my initiative. And once again, I would like to remind you that God does not allow anyone to ever face criminal persecution and the unhappiness that our law enforcement officials say is unhappiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please. Paul Žebrovsky's microphone, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u124	Sergey Grigorovich, in fact, the scientific and scientific administration told you absolutely right. Because we cannot just define the accused, the victim uses exactly the same authority, and the legislator did not provide for 217 and 218 articles. And today the investigator can falsify both the victim and the accused. And because of that, it would be fair to have 217 and 218 at the same time. Because you're elevated, say, the accused or defending his rights. But at the same time, you're saying that in some far-off perspective, we're probably going to anticipate changes to 217 KPCs. That's not right. I think it would be possible to unify these laws anyway, and it would be fair to have them adopted at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. Regrettably, I would like to reiterate once again that the Rules of Procedure today prohibit them from uniting them into a single bill. So what I'm talking about is that this bill under my authority might be passed either this sessional week or next sessional week. But the signature, of course, is still going to be in the process of signing this bill with the President. So this difference at this time can be signed and published simultaneously with the President. So I don't see these two bills coming into force at the same time, and in any other way, delay is only going to be if we don't now support this bill. So that's the right question. But I would do it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u126	Thank you. Please sit down, Sergey Grigorovitch. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, on the decision of the committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u127	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The author reported in detail on the bill, and, in fact, when the defendant's case is completed, the defendant, the victims have the right to know the material of the case, and most importantly they have the right to know what is in the case and what remains in the case until it is brought to trial. Because there are, Sergey Grigorovitch, cases where materials are added after learning, and there are cases where some of the unfavourable materials are extracted from the material of the case, and of course man is not prepared to defend his interests before the court. So the bill is perfectly proposed, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority supports it and the committee similarly, but Vladimir Mikhajlovich can, if he were to lay down a law or a bill on the same right of the victim to have a certified description, we would consider it in ten minutes and we could prepare both laws for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Please sign in. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u129	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Romanovich! Now you've just told a perfectly clear truth that a person needs to know, the defendant needs to know what he's being accused of, what he's being accused of, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on in this case, what's going on? And they have just confirmed that there is now practice when something is added, or it is eliminated without the knowledge of this person when he cannot defend himself in court. I have this perhaps rhetorical question, or maybe not, and as it is now being done, if the defendant is being accused in that state, it's not actually an unfair investigation, it's not gonna be a fair trial. Why is it only now that the authors of the legislative initiative have come to this? As the investigation goes, it's an unfair investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u130	Dear colleague Zarubinski, I would like to point out that 99 percent of the investigators, like the judges, are conscientiously performing their duties, but in order to secure such possible cases, and they are. When the investigator has not yet reached the deadline for the material, he will add it and does not know about it. Another disreputable investigator cuts out, but for the day such as the plague, no, there is a protector, the accused himself makes a thorough statement of every case sheet. But this bill says that the first five or four pages of text, the description of the materials in the case, will be copied and documented by the investigator. Thus, a 100% guarantee that other material will not be brought to trial, and if it does, it will not be procedural for the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u131	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u132	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Vladimir Romanovich, let's go back to the subject of this bill. Do you think it would be advisable to unite in one bill, and thus, if they are on your committee today, two bills are being considered, one is being considered today, the other is being considered, where, in my view, the issue of the protection of the rights of the victims as well as of the accused must be addressed at the same time. It's at the same time, because not always, if you'll excuse me, there's a victim, i.e. the victim's rights are protected both by the State and by the introduction, so to speak, of an honest investigation. It would not be advisable to recommend that these two bills be returned to the author's work and, in exchange, introduce a single bill. And we'd consider at the same time, and we'd take, so to speak, the parity of all of these measures that relate to change, or we'd accept it, and the last law, the second law is unknown when.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u133	I got it. Sergey Mishchenko reported and said that three months ago he had passed a law on the same right of the victim, a bill from March of the ninth year. So I say thank you to the machine that even if this law has reached its turn, if we turn this one in for work, there will never be a turn. But, of course, it would be better for both the victim and the accused to receive the same rights at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u134	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, Vladimir Romanovich. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Sergey Mishchenko and Jaroslav Suhi. Would you please use the microphone or the rostrum? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I realize that there are no objections to any of the MPs to the text of the amendments to the 218th article of the CPC. There's a question about how to technologically vote to. Indeed, that year this bill was in the walls of the Supreme Council, and only today has come to it, and we understand that every day we divert the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code gives us reason to say that the rights of our citizens will somehow be violated. So I see two ways to solve this question. The first path is to vote it today as a basis, not as a whole. And then, as soon as possible, the Law, the amendments to the 217 articles of the KPC for the next week, and at the same time the second reading of the second law, cannot be combined. Because this violation of the Rules in this case is one way. And the way I said it was to put him to the vote is that he's no different than this bill. And I'm sure there won't be any comment on the text of the bill itself. So there are two ways to solve this question. But it is no longer possible to postpone the adoption of this law in general. It is clear, therefore, that this should be if in the first reading, the commission of the Supreme Council of the Committee to consider it for a reduced program, taking into account the adoption of the law on 217 articles of the CPC, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u136	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, why did I actually sign up to discuss this bill, although it's not a bill from my committee on social policy and work. I see, for example, what you're seeing right now, the real threat to the construction of civil society, the real threat to the construction of civil society, the real threat to the strengthening of the rule of law, those elements, the separate cases of legal asylum that are now taking place in our country. And I know that this bill was written a long time ago, and I know that this committee of itss was going through a long time ago, back in my day 2009, and I'm very sorry that this bill has been there for so long, and I think there are a lot of such bills today. That's why my speech is called upon to facilitate the voting of all factions of this bill. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we are now seeing with you the manifestations of political elements in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Before that, we voted in favour of the Bill of Honorary colleague Svetoslav Olijnik of the BUT faction, the entire BUT chorus faction, voted in favour of this bill, i.e. did not vote in favour. It's not worth it! No one objected, no one took the stand. Bill. Don't shut your mouth to me, Your Honor, because what I want is from the rostrum and I'm telling you. I'm not calling you, I'm not insulting you, you're sitting in a session room learning to behave modestly, I'm not addressing you. I mean, the MPs, if they have any comments before or after any other bill, have to be honest and clean, and openly say here: this law needs to be supported! Why? We have isolated cases, and you know that very well when there's not only a replacement of some trace material going on, but it's just real, it's concrete when you're not ready for it at all, when you're not ready to defend it. So, honourable colleagues, our task here today, in the session room, to help the Supreme Council of Ukraine get into the work rhythm as quickly as possible, to get into a normal regime, to start working normally, and we eventually gave people what we hope for, not politics, not black toothache, and what people want from us -- bills. Because that's what we promised them. And with regard to the rule of law, and with regard to the social sphere, and with regard to the further development of Ukrainian statehood. I propose to support the author's point of view. This bill can be adopted in the first reading with a view to furthering the work of both 217 and 218 articles of the Codex in order to mislead them later, and to accomplish their task as the author did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u138	Mikhailo Chechetov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u139	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable members of the national parliament, the bill proposes to supplement article 218 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure with a new norm, establishing that, when presenting the materials to the court, the investigating officer is obliged to hand over the accused, duly certified, copies of the description of the criminal case, as stated in the minutes of the indictment, and of the bringing of the case against him, to his guardian. The initiative is aimed at implementing the practical aspects of procedural legislation, since in the following stages of criminal justice, after the accused has been declared to have completed the investigation, and presenting the material to him on the part of him and his advocate at times arise both based and groundless claims regarding the removal of material from the case or its completion with new documents that they were not familiar with. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this bill in the first reading. I'm addressing colleagues from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", the BUT faction to support my colleague Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenka with this bill. And on my part, I want to confirm that our faction has never watched who is the author of the bill -- whether it's the government or whether it's members of the coalition or a member of the majority, if a bill is specially drafted, if the bill has a positive effect on the state, the faction of the Party of Regions will always support such a bill. And in part, and I want to emphasize once again that, in fact, Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko has prepared an expert bill that has a positive impact on society. Once again, I propose to support everyone in the first reading of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Who else insists on speaking out of factions that have not exercised their right? None. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the duties of the investigator. [[Registration number 4284]] Please vote. [[13:01:14]] For 321 Decision taken. A draft Law on Private Search Activities is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Musik Volodymyr Romanovich, and he will decide on the committee, which is to speak with the committee at the same time. Please, Volodymyr Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u141	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, as the author of this bill, I would like to inform you that similar bills were introduced in the fourth, fifth, sixth, convention. Those who work in Parliament may have been brought in before. Many countries in the world have similar legislation, and I emphasize that many countries in the former Soviet Union also have laws on private search activities, on detective search activities, and on other names. Private search or search for agencies, namely, detectives and detective agencies provide substantial assistance to business subjects in studying the reputation and financial situation of lenders and partners in determining their ability to carry out their financial obligations, which greatly prevents risky contracts and the avoidance of debts. In addition, private search engines are carrying out extensive search for missing persons, animals, intellectual property rights violations, especially in the case of the illegal use of trademarks, and so forth. The experience of countries where such legislation exists shows that the availability of private search activities greatly increases the responsibility of the State’s law enforcement system for responding to the needs of citizens and society at the right time. In Ukraine, unfortunately, this type of activity is not officially recognized today, although not only natural persons but also legal persons are actively engaged in private search and search. Our bill regulates the types and legal status of the private search service, the procedure for obtaining testimonies, the requirement for candidates to work by private search engines, the types of subscribers of the law, the procedure for obtaining a permit for special measures, the exercise of control over private search activities, and regulates the issue of responsibility for the illegal pursuit of private search activities or the illegal establishment of quasi-detect search engines. Dear colleagues, our committee reviewed the bill and supported it. With their comments, the bill was supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And I would ask you, let's try, I don't see any trouble if you reject this bill, but let's try to bring in what's already in the world and have a good time, and it's producing fruitful results. If you have questions about the specific rules or specific positions of the bill, I am ready to answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Romanovich, there is one precaution, a warning, a fear, a development or tell them what incentives would be that would not allow us to turn all law enforcement into a private structure, because you understand who would work there. People who aren't prepared can't work there. How will they obtain information? Some new methods of sissy have not yet been produced by mankind, meaning the same methods. The same technical means of gathering information, the same technical means of gathering information, can still work at one time, such as military transmitters and the like. And one more thing. You know very well how a man with such an experience of work will look like: a police lieutenant young on his salary and any man who works in a private search structure who will have a salary a few times higher, and so on? How will these questions be resolved? Aren't we going to create an alternative at the legislative level to our law enforcement agencies?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u144	Of course, Mr. Jaroslav, this is an alternative search service, an alternative, but their powers cannot be intertwined in any way. Private searchers have no right to engage in operational and search activities, pre-trial investigations, or anything like that. But don't be afraid of that word, because we're not used to it, we're afraid of something new. And I'll give you a simple example. We'd like one of our fellow MPs or some of her fellow MPs to pick up where her husband is going, or at a session right here. [[Laughter]] Wait, wait, wait. So what Mr. Suhi asked, here I gave a list of the legal bases of private search activities: “The private search engine uses Ukrainian laws on entrepreneurship, on information protection, on licensing activities, on militia, and so on, that is to say, it should be a normal activity. But I say don't be afraid, let's try.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u145	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u146	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Vladimir Romanovich, well, I have such an impression on the report of such, in your opinion, an important and great bill, such an impression that you yourself do not believe in the operation of this bill, because perhaps it is not the time or other reasons why it should be put into our lives. As you stated in your report, a number of countries in the former Soviet Union have this. Give specific examples of where these countries have introduced such protection. That's the first question. And the second question. Don't you think the bill you're proposing has a lot of conflicting questions about the Constitution? It's on one side. And, on the other hand, how does the matter of supervision, on the part of which body: prosecutors, courts, legal, illegal? And does this conflict with the existing legislative field regarding the activities of the prosecutor’s office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u147	Dear colleague, the Constitution does not conflict with the law, I answer you. The fact that he does not comply with valid laws is, of course, no new law can meet the old laws, for that is why he is called new. Who will control the activities of detectives and detectives? The license has the right to issue the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and it also controls the enforcement of the laws by private investigators. The Attorney General's Office, which is also included in the draft law, is overseeing the legality of the activities of private investigators. I mean, I believe in this law because it's not the first time I've written it, but is Parliament ready to accept this novel? This is new, of course. And if you don't support me, I won't hold evil against you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u148	Vladimir Romanovich, thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. From factions and then directly from national MPs. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I personally have the experience of working in law enforcement agencies, and I believe that this bill cannot be supported, because it is contrary to the very many legislative acts that today regulate any relationship in which this bill is subject. And unfortunately, you know that in our country very, very much, so to speak, there are a lot of organs that have a license or right to do this work today. If we're going to give a legal way in this transition economic period to create offices that are going to investigate or that are going to do search-and-seeking jobs, then you're going to understand what this is going to be like to abuse and violate citizens' rights. If today we are the law enforcement agencies that are clearly engaged in this activity and there are a lot of questions to them, because these law enforcement agencies are run by non-professionals or people who do not have basic education, people who don't have, so to speak, the experience of working in these law enforcement agencies, and, accordingly, we have all these problems, you can imagine that tomorrow those who were previously judges, and then, so to speak, will have the right or will they have the right to deal with this question, will they have the right to use it for the benefit of the people? I think that, in my opinion, this right is usually going to be used in our country not for the benefit of those people who have to protect law enforcement agencies, their rights and freedoms. So I think that at this time it's difficult when we have so many questions about human rights violations on the part of law enforcement agencies, our Parliament and all of us as national deputies have to focus our efforts on that part to improve the work and improve the demands on the responsibility of those or other bodies that carry out their activities. I think it's a bad time in our country. That this will not be balanced, this law does not balance all issues with regard to other laws that regulate one activity or another. That's why I'm counting on this bill to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u150	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u151	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, we can reject the idea proposed by Vladimir Romanovich. I can see it in the mood that we're going to throw it away. But we're not going anywhere from the fact that in Ukraine, we're going to become a private investigator's institute, a private investigator's institute, sooner or later. And not only because often people who are engaged in private search activities are more interested in leading to the end, to the logical end of the investigation. And no one will reject the fact that Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes was the best private investigator, and those who competed with him did not reach his level. In most countries, there is a private research institute. Moreover, let us be honest with you, in Ukraine today, many people who have suffered have already been approached by experts to help them resolve the matter. It's just an illegal thing to do. One more moment. To talk about what competition can do, I think it's wrong. At least because private investigators can decide that they won't decide our official law enforcement. Well, please tell me if there's a lot of issues going on or there's a lot of people who've disappeared. And that's exactly what Vladimir Romanovich said, one of the key things that private detectives all over the world are doing -- they're going to the end. They're investigating where officials, let's say, will never get there. Therefore, the private detectives ’ institute in Ukraine itself will appear. The only moment, and perhaps not only the only one, would not want this to in any way resemble the practices of our so-called security agencies, which we have recently talked about, which are often created in some private army or private battalions. I think it's just today, Vladimir Romanovich, that this idea is not going to be accepted, but in principle, in this chronology of law enforcement reform, and as the product of this private investigators' institution in Ukraine will be correct. This is likely to happen after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed, the committee proposes to accept it as a basis, there is no other opinion? I submit to your consideration, honourable colleagues, a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law on Private Search Activities. [[Registration number 4450]] Please vote. [[13:16:01]] For-23 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading the bill. [[Registration number 4450]] [[13:16:24]] For-22. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on the payment by payers of copies of records in registers issued and received tax notes]] [[Registration number 1482]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mikola Petrovich. And as the author of the bill and from the committee. Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u153	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 4 March 2008 reviewed the draft law amending the Law on Added Value Tax. The bill proposes that VAT payers be submitted to the public tax authorities of the registers received and issued, together with tax reporting for the relevant reporting period. The value added tax payers, in which the annual amount of taxed transactions is not more than 1 million dollars, give the tax authority a register of received and issued tax receipts for the corresponding period in electronic or paper form by choice. When discussing the proposed changes, the MPs emphasize the need for a transitional period to maintain an electronic VAT administration system. This requires minimizing potential threats and increasing the benefits of taking away such a system. It is important to address the issue of confirming the authenticity of the signature, as an identification of the signature on paper, with the appropriate responsibility for creating a system of cryptographic information at the national level, with a view to achieving its credibility and improving administration. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Act on Value Added Tax. [[on the payment by taxpayers of added value to the authorities of the State Tax Service of a copy of registration certificates issued and received on the basis of]] [[Registration number 1482]] Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u155	Thank you. Mikola Petrovich, please tell us this bill that you've proposed and reported to us, is it making it easier for our operators or is it improving the ability to control taxes that will make it easier for us to do? That's the first question. And the second question is, do you not think that with this tax, as VAT, in our country, novels can write detectives so much that they're probably not enough paper around the world? Something needs to be done in general with this tax, because the abuse that goes on and around this is a terrible phenomenon, it's billions and tens of billions of dollars for today. What you think we need to do in the Supreme Council in order to reduce, so to speak, the criminal nature of this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u156	Most importantly, when does the criminality of this tax go away? When we see transparency. Today any tax payer who receives or issues his taxes is keeping the register. When we see it, and we see it, only when a tax check is carried out can we find out. But the company’s time is running out, and it’s impossible to understand, but in the meantime it’s time to make reparations to those who need it. When we say we're reporting every month and you're giving a register of your tax collectors that you're issuing or accepting, it's practically going to be introduced into the single tax base electronically and you're basically going to forgive the whole situation by paying and charging the added value tax. This is the kind of transparency that is lacking today. If this is done, it will be perfectly clear paid by this VAT payer, you can make up for it, can you give it, as we say, tax credit or not? It is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u157	Yes, there are no more willing to ask questions. Thank you, sit down, please. Please sign up for the bill. First from the faction then directly the national MPs. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next will be Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I believe that the bill that our colleague introduced should be supported in the first reading today. Although there are some questions that I particularly have about clarifying more in order to introduce it as a transparent project that will motivate our entrepreneurs and our citizens to actually work for a positive, not a negative, tax. Unfortunately, you know today that everything about the value added tax is more negative in our country than positive. Because there are three entities, or three sides, in this project. One subject who manages and pays voluntary and conscientious taxes always stays in his sight because he shows his activity in a transparent way. The second, which exports and helps the state make money, can't wait for the tax to be paid back, because there are obstacles, there are thousands and thousands of reasons why they don't pay that tax. And the third question is, these are the entities that are floating in this tax, so to speak, in the murky water that are using it illegally, they don't create any extra cost, they don't create jobs, they don't create jobs, they don't create jobs there, we say the product that is to be produced in Ukraine, and they are based only on this negative in this "dark water" and they make these costs. You know that information that's based on, or that's on the Internet and other information that's now 30 or more billion taxes are not returned, and a lot of it, I think 90, with extra interest, is a transparent tax, it's a tax that doesn't allow businesses to develop and, of course, something needs to be done about it. So, a colleague of Kruglov's, by proposing this idea, is looking at my first point of view to create additional possibilities for entities that own our nation's economic space and claim to pay off VAT at the right time to have additional weights and additional arguments that this is going on in a transparent way. Because if we don't do something about it, we're never going to get out of the shadow of this important lever, so to speak in the economic sphere that helps, we have to help so say stimulate expertise in Ukraine, and they're aimed at not believing in this tax. This applies not only to our foreign subjects who are working in our country but to those who have come with investments in our economic space and who have not been able to receive a value added tax for years. So I think that this bill should be adopted in the first reading and I ask the people's deputies, regardless of their political views on this tax, on this law, to support it in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u159	Pavel Žebrovsky, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", next will be Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, in fact, this bill has been on my mind since 2003 and has been trying to push through Parliament since 2003. Either by the side or by the front or by the profile or by any other means, and in the Budget Law, I remember in 2003 having tried it all, and in many other ways it was pushed out. Here a colleague spoke to me about relief, what relief? What are you talking about, buddy? There is no relief, on the contrary — the obligation of all operators today to keep such registers, whether they are going to reimburse VAT or not. So today these are even more units, especially in those where huge volumes, accounting is still an additional unit for small businesses in accounting to work on taxes. Maybe the IRS doesn't know who's paying off the wrong VAT? He knows. Is it possible that today those who illegally reimburse VAT do not receive this VAT? Friends, I assure you, it's those butterflies that have VAT reimbursement first because they share. It's not really about the register today, it's about how tax administration is charged. Today, tests are complete and complete. And without a background check, and if, God forbid, a butterfly shows up and disappears somewhere, the VAT is not taxed. Because of this, it actually looks like a very unseemly thing behind a beautiful necklace -- it's an extra workload on business, not the ease of business life. If the initiator of the legislative initiative were to propose: those entities that want to be unverified, let them keep such a register, give out the one who leads, they will not have such long checks – it would be aimed at facilitating the conduct of the business. There's no such thing. There's only one thing -- extra workload, extra units, extra reporting, and nothing else. Once again, my friends, I emphasize, behind such beautiful envelopes, the ears of increasing fiscal pressure, increasing the pressure on subjects. And that's wrong. I propose this bill, as we rejected it in 2003, 2004, 2005 and now reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u161	Vladimir Romanovich. Kseniya Lapina, please, Vladimir Romanovich Moisik gives you the right to speak. And Roman Tkac is also transmitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u162	Thank you, fellows of honor! Thank you, fellows of honor! Xenia Lapina group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! It's actually a very important question, we're looking at it, really, not for the first time. And we must somehow answer ourselves with a clear answer to what we want to do with the administration of this complex tax. A lot of ideas came up all the time. I remember the idea very well when I wanted to give the VAT accounts there. When each transaction was to go through two accounts: the account is simple and the VAT account. You remember what the business said then, small and large. He said, “People, you want to take our circulation costs and load us.” Then the idea came up, and let's say you, honest businesses, keep an electronic VAT register, because in paper form and so long ago, everyone has a register, and when they check it, it must be provided by a controlling machine. Everything is being checked, so there's nothing you can do about it. It came up with an idea, and let's say, electronically, let's think about it every quarter. Tax has an illusion that it will form such a large database that millions of transactions per month, millions of transactions that are actually documented as tax overheads. They'll see it in one view and they'll automatically start working. My friends! I advise you all to go work in the real economy and not the head of the Supervisory Board, but the accountant who is responsible for making registers for at least a month, and I will see how you will otherwise offer any, sorry, non-scientific and any unscientific fiction. This is not going to happen! Nothing will happen automatically, millions of mistakes will come out, millions of tax checks, the system will collapse, it'll just collapse in five minutes. Moreover, my fellow Members, if we offer such a mandatory quarterly electronic reporting facility for all, I can assure you that in a quarter we will go back to repealing this law because the business is going to collapse, it just won't get its powers in order to do so. And I think we should put an end to this fantasy. We have to work out some normal concept of how we continue to develop what we do with VAT, as we see it. There's no such concept yet. So far, we've been seeing constant attempts to cover the holes. Now, for transparency, dear colleagues. It was said that such an offer to load business with additional administration would lead to transparency. Dear colleagues, once a quarter of these electronic VAT registers are being submitted, believe that all these butterflies that are hiding in paper today, that's exactly how they hide in your electronic register during the quarter. You're not going to see them that way in the neighborhood, and the situation is no different than the one that the tax check is doing today, especially the test that's coming up, the check that's going to happen if someone wants to make it up to you. And I also want to point out that they're compensating VAT, maybe 10 percent of businesses, or maybe less if you look at it. In fact, they keep a tax return on all transactions, millions of entities. And it's a very heavy burden on those who never had VAT and were not going to compensate, for which VAT is just an element of his permanent business activity, which is just rated as a debit or credit, it's almost an accounting thing, not what they're counting on in financial flows. And we want to make them spend a lot of extra time, and so the money, because in business every minute, it's extra money. This means that the same small, medium-sized business will have to hire extra accountants, and it's not that even accountants, it's just girls who will sit and charge for money, as they say on jargon, they'll make a thousand mistakes in the computer, and then they'll try to speed up and say, "And something doesn't work, we don't have one number with another." And the reason is simple: a girl who was planted a month ago behind a computer just made a mistake.” I call on the MPs to approach everything with balance and intelligence and not to hide in terms of transparency, not to hide our efforts to force business to spend extra time, energy and costs, and now during the crisis, on the contrary, they have done everything they can to make the business work as efficiently as possible, and therefore to pay more taxes to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u163	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of looking at the Tax Code, which has been in our possession for several years, we do not consider it and consider small bills. It's possible to follow this path, only this path will never lead to economic growth. We're being told today that maybe it's going to be a fight against butterfly firms that are creating and compensating VAT. Let's look at the essence of the problem: “What is illegal VAT compensation?” It is nothing more than simply stealing funds from the state budget simply by means of such an operation as with the help of tax authorities in general. It's just a robbery. So today, it would be very easy for the head of the newly created Committee on Combating Corruption, the National Committee, Viktor Yanukovic on the day or the day before Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenka's birth not to shorten the Shevchenkov prizes – this began the presidency, yes: on the day of Shevchenk's birth, to cut down to a fourth of Vladimir Mikhajlović's, to reduce the national bonus of Shevchenka's name to a fourth, on the other hand, to fight corruption is very simple: just to pick up those businesses that are being damaged by VAT, to see what kind of goods it is -- and it's very easy to stop it. And those bodies that were set up would have to complete investigations into these subjects and report to society. There's, in fact, billions of government funds. So I think it's absolutely right now that both Mr. Zebrowsky and Kseniya Leapina were right about that it's an extra load. I just want to remind you that these amendments to the Added Costs Act are still listed here in the law, and it is suggested that these documentary and electronic media should be kept by the taxpayer for a period of time established by law. It means not to spoil anything. It's an extra load. Can’t anyone see that it’s still a cost of storage for the right storage? Because if you don't, and the standard is set to be kept, that's another reason for you to come and choke something out of you. This is not the best way for Ukraine. The best way is to adopt a new tax code and forget about the added value tax as the most corrupt tax. Just wipe it off and forget about it. It's the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. It's a closing statement. Mikola Kruglov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to remind my colleagues that, today in electronic form, these registers are being provided throughout Europe, there is nothing new for us -- those who really want to do something necessary for our state. Secondly, when someone wants me to go to accounting, to any company, I advise those counselors to say that people are good, and you were there all by yourself? Did you see that today, paper or electronic registers are done by everyone without exception who works with VAT? This bill deals with making copies that are now available at every company, a copy to the tax administration. Which is only possible in this form immediately, practically, over the course of the week to see the entire VAT balance. It is those who speak of criminal acts who are doing everything they can to prevent this law. So let's not think of anything. If we really want to put order into this, let's vote first, if we don't, let's be honest about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Value Added Tax, registration number 1482. [[on the payment by taxpayers of copies of records, registers of tax invoices issued and received]] Please vote. [[13:38:50]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the first question of the draft law again. [[Registration number 1482]] [[13:39:16]] For 211 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on bringing them into line with the Ukrainian Code of Lordship and the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs is being published, and the Rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Horin Irina Anatoliyevna. [[Registration number 2221]] Now. Counselor. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Leapin Kseniya Mikhailnovna. Both the committee and the author propose to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:40:20]] For-182 Decision taken. Irina Anatolyevna, please invite you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u168	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The law was passed in the summer of June 2008. Its essence is to harmonize the terms that were before the adoption of the Civil Code and the Economic Code, which introduces a terminology that is then retained in all legislative acts. This is: “physical person” is an entrepreneur and “business” as an economic activity. What is the point of this question? It is a matter of divisiveness, dissension of the various terms that exist throughout the legislative framework until 2004 that complicates the lives of entrepreneurs, especially when disputes are resolved in courts and business entities, and especially when entrepreneurs argue with public authorities. And when, because there are references to differences in terms, even excessive fines are imposed on them, it is not clear why there is a natural additional burden on the lives of entrepreneurs. In view of the fact that a new Code of Budget is now being adopted and I hope that everything about a simplified system of taxation will be revised, it would be useful to unify all the terms and thus remove unnecessary additional items that might be sticks in the wheels for entrepreneurship. We'll have to bring it in, we'll take care of it. We propose to adopt the law on first reading. We will take into account all the proposals made by the Scientific and Expert Department of the Supreme Council in order to remove all inaccuracies, some 15 laws need to be amended to harmonize terms. Please support the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u169	Xenia Mikhailna Leapina, please make a decision by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The committee's decision: to support this bill, the bill is, as I think it's very technical, useful in terms of bringing terminology into line with a single terminology, namely the individuals of entrepreneurs in all our legislative acts. Today, there is such a distinction between the Code of Lords and practically all other laws, where the term “entrepreneur ” is already used. And it's actually going to have to be removed in the master code itself, which is the subject of the legislative initiative of the honourable colleague Irina Gorina. And we support this bill on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u171	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Suhi, microphone. Is there a Jaroslav Suhi?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! I think the adoption of this bill will be another positive signal for business subjects, because the higher legislative body of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, is bringing the normative documents into line with the time requirements. What is more, we are well aware of these different motives when the standard of a law in favor of the State differs, not the subject of entrepreneurial activity that causes not only irritation but also material harm to our business. I would like with this vote and with the support of this bill on the basis, as the author of the bill said, to demonstrate our respect for the subjects of farming and note that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is gradually not to be immediately, let alone, but gradually, step by step, return to normal working mode, normal working rhythm, and start to adopt those bills that we, I want to remind you, all the factions when we went to parliamentary elections and now during the presidential elections, promised our people. That is, to adopt those bills, to promote the adoption of legislative acts that would allow for the development of creative initiative and the ability to make a living with their own minds, with their own efforts, without having an enemy state, having an ally state in front of them. That's why I'm calling for a session room, calling on the Ukrainian people's deputies to accept, to support this bill as a basis. Although I thought he was technical and only made adjustments to terminology, if the committee considered him appropriate, Kseniya Mikhailna was present in the hall, and made an offer to accept him as a whole, it was the law. If we can't, then we'll take it as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u173	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my colleague Horinius for seeing some inconsistencies in terms of terminology, and she's now proposing to change them. But to those hot fellows who want to accept it in the second reading, I definitely say my 'no'. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm going to deny it and that's why. Our law is called "the draft law amending certain legislative acts to bring them into compliance with the Master Code and the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs", so called the law. The law has to be renamed, I absolutely agree with the Science and Experimental Authority, because there is no such term in the Code of Lords at all, which is what we're going to write, that you want to accept in the second reading, colleagues. You can't do that. It's the term that we've been arguing with you here for a long time when we introduced chapter five into the Civil Code of Ukraine, which is called "Natural Person: Entrepreneur". And I would ask you not to simply introduce the Civil Code, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as it applies to many committees. And I'd like these key committees that were looking at it to look at it, too, because there's somewhere else to make changes. So it would be right to listen to the scientific expertise that suggested, in my opinion, the universal name of this law. It can be accepted as an option. I think my colleague, Goreen, will agree with that, too. This is called: “To amend some Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of terminology applicable to operators” is a unified name. And it would give us the opportunity to go through other legislation and do the serious work that you've started even more global. And to entrust those committees that are involved and caring, including the Civil Code, with new changes. By the way, if we're talking about changes to the Code of Masters, it's very different to define what is the subject of farming? There's work to be done here. We have to take the first reading, and that's what I'm calling you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! The bill has been completed. The committee's offering it as a basis and you agree with the wording, I understand, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on registration number 2221. Please vote. [[13:48:32]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading bill number 2221. Please vote. [[13:49:03]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! It is proposed to consider a draft Act supplementing section III, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry. [[concerning medical devices for foreign production]] Registration number 4554. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Health Mitnik Zinovy Mikolaiovich and co-reporter is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Leapin Ksenij Mikhailovna. Maybe I'll put it to a vote and we'll take it up with a brief procedure, your honorary colleagues. Please don't yell, I'm not asking you yet! I'm consulting the Supreme Council! Xenia Mikhailvna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u176	This law is repealed by the Constitutional Court. There is no change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u177	So what do we do now? Dear colleagues, please inform the Deputy Minister now and then we will decide on the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The point is that the changes to this law that were proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers were approved on committees that were appropriate, but this was proposed over a year ago. Therefore, by a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutional submission of the President of Ukraine on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the minimization of the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the domestic industry since 14 July 2009 under 18/2009, the law has been declared unconstitutional and has ceased to be valid since the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of this decision. So now there is no point in making proposals for change. I'm sorry, there's nothing to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, therefore, the request to support such a motion for withdrawal from the draft Law, registration number 4554. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote off the draft law, registration number 4554. Thank you. [[13:51:42]] For negative 216. The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law as a basis. Registration number 4554. Based on the base. [[13:52:04]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[13:51:42]] For 216 Overruled. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently looking at the draft of the Law on the Location, Design and Construction of a Central Repository of Decommissioned Nuclear Fuel Reactors of the Type VWER of Domestic Nuclear Power Plants. [[Registration number 5050]] The Conciliation Council has decided to postpone consideration of this law, which I will inform you about. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import into Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport which are imported by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4166-P]] We discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council meeting, and the Conciliation Council agreed that we need to repeal this law, because it cannot be signed, in view of the disagreements that have been identified in the drafting of this law, and these materials have been handed down to you, dear fellows, and reported to this committee head. So, I ask you, Your Honor, let's vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u180	We're blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u181	Yeah. I'm betting on the vote, my honorary colleagues, draft decree number 4166-P. [[13:54:19]] For-179
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u182	Please, Adam Martinyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u183	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would not want us to approach the offer of colleague Teryochin so simplistically. So that's what this is all about. What, I'm not going to call the names of our colleagues who are here in the session room that this law becomes in front of the throat, because, of course, it comes to some interest. What's going on? In this law we have written down exactly one norm to which diplomatic workers are entitled, that is, a person who wants to come to Ukraine on vacation on his own road transport has no right today because if he eats his own car, he is obliged to pay his dues and everything else, as if he is importing a car into Ukraine. But we have recorded in this law that he is. Crossing the customs border, he writes a commitment that he will return from his vacation. I mean, it's perfectly clear here and we don't need this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u184	Dear National Deputies! There is no need for discussion on this subject. On this point, the Chief Legal Authority noted that the law could not be adopted and put into effect and suggested that the law should be repealed and a new law should be drafted. The committee accepted that offer. Because today we need to make a move and unlock this process, we need to make the right decision. Otherwise, there will be no decision. Please, Gregory Smitsch on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u185	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, my personal point of view, you remember that this bill was adopted two weeks ago in February of this year. That's the first question. This law was passed by 343 deputies voted in favour. And Terjehochin voted in favour. And Terhochina is not in the hall today, as he had the right to report or explain to the deputies why we cancel. There may have been another decision by the Supreme Council. Because if the author of the decision isn't there, and he's hiding somewhere, or he's not sure where, that's another question, you know. Similarly, we must not vote for the law, and the author is not, and we are voting for something. That's my point of view. And if there are any inadequacies, the committee’s chairman was to introduce a new law or new amendments to one or the other so that it would not conflict with existing legislation. That's my personal point of view. Thus, the Supreme Council did not properly support this decision in connection with these arguments that I have cited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u186	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that with regard to such irritating laws, it is better not to approach us in the next ballot without discussing the substance. I also pressed the pros button without realizing what was going on. Now that I see the real meaning of this bill, for example, I would not vote for it. It just got confused with another bill because it was completely out of the question. I want to remind you that at the time, he was on a watch that was perceived, especially by Ukrainians who earn and work abroad, who have the opportunity to come somewhere on vacation, and here they are being persecuted by both customs authorities and everyone else. It seems to me that in this case, if there is a need to change something, a new bill can be introduced, and this one has to enter into force. It will be new, then it will be accepted and everything will change. Today, by canceling this without introducing a new situation under the new bill, we do not know how long we will delay and re-create this hellfire for our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that this project has been signed. They've already come from factions, that's enough. Under this draft decrees were signed by the people’s deputies Kruglov, Svetos, Kzarkov and Shamanov. This is the first time. Secondly, we discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council and concluded that in order for this law to be adopted and not to draw it to the President, then to get the veto, to repeal this law and quickly adopt a new law. And the fact that there is no reporter, I don't think we can wait all the time when anyone wants to come to the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this bill will be signed and sent to the President of Ukraine with all observations unless the Supreme Council has made a different decision. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work and start by considering a draft order to withdraw some of the tax bills. And I'd like to invite Sergei Teryochin.
