ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:15]] There are 417 members of the National Assembly Hall registered with cats. Honourable National Deputies, 164 Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Party of the Regions' Deputies, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, that is, part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two of article 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have turned to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following day, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a request from 151 Ukrainian national deputies, members of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. After consulting, I made a decision with which two factions agreed to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, on January 28, this year. With this in mind, the honourable national deputies, the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, I declare open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies! Two factions: the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and the faction "Our Ukraine - the People's Self-Defense" have made an appropriate statement requiring a recess to call a meeting of the Conciliation Council of the Deputies. I'm going to announce, honourable national deputies, which we have today's meeting schedule to allow MPs who have not yet met to consider the meeting schedule, and then we're going to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council at the request of two factions. It is suggested that the following questions be considered, honourable national deputies, at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: On compliance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine with the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine during the 2010 elections of the President of Ukraine. The second issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6004]] [[on the organization of the work of electoral commissions]] Question three. Registration number 5509: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on the non-permission of voter will]] And question four. Registration number 5354: draft Ordinance on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of transfer to the lease of the government residence of “Mježirja”. That's four questions. I would like to remind you once again, my fellow Members, that according to the requirements of the Constitution, only the questions that are proposed by the initiators to convene an extraordinary session are raised for the next session. I announce a break at the request of two factions: the BUT factions and the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” – for 30 minutes, up to 10 hours 40 minutes. To the leaders of the MP factions, please meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u2	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you of the meetings of the Conciliation Council. At the meeting of the Conciliation Board, there was an order for consideration of the issues identified by the schedule for the next session. We agreed that the initiators would be able to justify the need to hold an extracurricular session within three minutes, I mean, from the faction of the Party of Regions and the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. We are moving on to consideration of issues in accordance with the procedure envisaged by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would like to invite a representative from the Party of the Regions, Mr. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, of course, to convene an extraordinary session one week before the date that has been defined as the final day when Ukrainian citizens will choose the head of their state is an extraordinary event. And in order to make that decision, we needed strong arguments. What we've seen is an escalation of lawlessness in a country that challenges society as a whole, and it's not just government ignoring the requirements of Ukrainian legislation, what we've seen with the lack of State budget this year, with the failure to implement the Minimum Wages and Social Standards Act and many others, we've been given a situation where the largest law enforcement agency is turned into a weapon in the hands of offenders. We've had a situation where at any cost they're trying to prevent the free will of citizens. That was the reason why we decided to convene an extracurricular session. We cannot see how an attempt to conquer the Ukrainian state is taking place, the conquest of Ukrainian citizens, the right to choose national leadership. And if we've seen illegal agitation either by the government or by the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we've been treating it like a freakin' violation of the law. When we saw the pressure on the members of the electoral commission, we hoped that it was also just a regional phenomenon. When we saw citizens being hindered so they couldn't get to the district election boards, it was already massive, but it wasn't decisive. But when we saw that steps are already being taken, such as making a second seal for the court, which has to deal with electoral disputes, as a brutal force is being used to capture an enterprise that prints electoral ballots, it becomes clear to us that we have to stop this. And preparations for the distortion of voting results or the complete collapse of the election must be stopped. We should not allow the work of election committees to be hindered. We have to protect the right of Ukrainian citizens to choose. And we have to protect this choice from power distortion. And we'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! From the faction. Sergey Sobolev, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u5	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Hearers! I would like to put the dots clearly above the “and” that happened. If, literally, two weeks ago, our opposition from the faction of the regions claimed that unless only in Honduras during the election did they change the Electoral Law, and today they did have to change the Electoral Law urgently, I think that's the best example of how to adopt decisions in the Supreme Council. But the key question is probably not that. The series of things that took place in the last year, starting with the admiration of the Supreme Economic Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, is now the capture of the District Administrative Court of Appeal; the things that relate to the capture of the printing, where the Party of Regions is printed, are all a chain of one goal: to break the election. Moreover, why is the draft Law on the Change of Members of the District Election Commissions and District Election Commissions being introduced? One goal is to do what was done during the first round of the elections in the Kyiv region, where, by a hundred percent, the elector voted for Timoshenko and other democratic candidates, where the members of the electoral boards on the Party of the Regions were not able to start the elections until almost the first hour of the day. That is why we insist that the following decisions be made today. First of all, we need to get a new member of the Central Electoral Commission on an urgent basis. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we demand this vote. Secondly, we need to vote on the Election Act as a single bill. What's more, it's one normative act that needs to be voted here in the session room. And we support the previous decisions that we have already made regarding the order of direct control of the elections. And last of all, with regard to the vote directly on Minister Lucenko. The fact that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has provided for a clear first time in years of election direct legal control over non-admission of counterfeiting is the reason why Minister Lucenko has been removed. That's why our faction made a draft decision on how to vote by hand. This was the way that all cabinet members voted directly, and in this way the Prime Minister voted, and we demand that this vote take place in the same way. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the first question is the question of complementing a member of the Central Electoral Commission, especially since we illegally liberated a previous member of the CBC. Secondly, it's a clear order in the Elections Act, which is now agreed upon by opponents from the factions of the regions. And thirdly, the way the hands were voted in the same way that there were appointments directly in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the motivation for holding the non-commissioned session is set out. Now, let's talk about the suggestions that have been made. Regarding a member of the Central Electoral Commission. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support the candidature, as you know, on Thursday, submitted by the President of Ukraine. So the question is closed. The President of Ukraine has put forward another candidate, the candidate for which are the signatures of the factions is Alexander Osadchuk. However, the honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution, are asked only the questions raised by the initiators of the outside session. If we consider today the appointment of a member of the CLTC, tomorrow someone will appeal to the court and we will have many problems. So I have a request to suffer by Tuesday when we open the session. I don't think it'll be critical yet. With regard to draft laws on the election of the President of Ukraine. We have come up with a number of coalitions here, and they are related to the fact that one of the draft laws was not considered by the committee accordingly. But once again, there is an appropriate article in the Constitution of Ukraine that deals exclusively with the issues identified by the initiators of the convening of the non-commitment session. And with regard to the order of voting, the honourable national MPs. I gave the Chief Legal Authority the mandate and the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council to conclude on this principle. There is only one problem today that we have, praise God, an electronic voting system, that is, a number of other issues. Now, dear fellows, consider the first question. This is the time limit for consideration of the first question, namely: the compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine with the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine during the elections of the President of Ukraine in 2010, according to the Rules of Report, is allocated up to 20 minutes, for the answer to questions, up to 20 minutes, I refer to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and to the report and to the answer to questions, up to 20 minutes. A representative of the committee tasked with preparing the question if it was entrusted. At the same time, according to the regulations, the issue of the report may be included in the agenda of the daily session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine if the subject is introduced with the right of the legislative initiative to review information or report at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the committee here had nothing to do with this. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees, then we can also go to the committee. At the same time, for consideration of the first question invited by the Attorney General's Office, Attorney-General Medvedzko Alexander Ivanovich and the Ukrainian Security Service, there was the first deputy head, the head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organised Crime, Gretzak Vasil Sergiyovich. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to listen to information or answers to questions from the leaders of these structures, I think we will make the right decision. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable national deputies, may decide to discuss the matter. So the proposition is, dear colleagues, let's now listen to the Minister's report, ask the Minister, answer the Minister, and then determine how you think about the information that you just gave you. Is there no objection? The report invites Interior Minister Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, please. I'm asking you, dear fellows, to calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, let me report on the work of the militia in the electoral process. Organizational and practical measures are being taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out its responsibilities and tasks for the implementation of the Presidential Decree on the provision and implementation of constitutional electoral rights of citizens, transparency and openness of the electoral process in the next election of the President of Ukraine. A proper plan of law enforcement and a number of other well-known documents have been developed and implemented, consistent with the members of the CLTC and sent to all local authorities of the internal affairs methodological recommendations and algorithms for police officers. For the promotion of the Ukrainian-Canada project, 38,000 short methodological recommendations on the competence of the police in the protection of citizens' rights and public order during the electoral process have been printed and distributed to all police units. An information bulletin has been prepared for members of the electoral commission on the responsibility for criminal acts during the 2004 presidential election, which has been sent to all district and district election committees as a warning against violations of the law. With the aim of monitoring the state of law enforcement 24 hours a day in the States since December 30 in the Ministry and Regional Units, operational headquarters and their working groups have been deployed. In order to ensure the protection of public order, 225 district and 33,000 district election boards are approaching them, and since the arrival of election ballots, they have been provided with day-to-day direct protection by militia personnel. Police officers carried out tests of district and district commissions for technical reinforcements. Commissions and local authorities offered to remedy deficiencies and contract arrangements for fire alarm equipment, and so on. In connection with the requests made by the CEC, we have been given additional orders to the locations for the provision of escorts and the protection of electoral ballots in district and district election committees from the time of transport. In order to respond immediately to the changes in the operational environment, there were strengthened monitoring and operational groups, documenting groups, the necessary special warehouse reserves, including special police units. The protection of public order in the courts and surrounding areas has been strengthened in connection with possible court hearings of election complaints. Special attention was paid to ensuring the rule of law in places of residence and residence of official observers from foreign nations and international organizations or the Ukrainian media. In particular, the problem of Georgian observers developed by a single political power is worth mentioning. With the opportunity, I'm addressing a member of the Party of Regions who knows what intelligence is. There were no three thousand workers in Georgia’s internal armed forces in Ukraine. Although Mr. Volodymyr, there are no internal forces in Georgia or OMON. And there were 300 of them, and 3,000 on board two planes, even our "Ruslan" can't lift. Therefore, we need to stop terrorizing people with passions and allow our honest, transparent choices to be allowed by observers. After the first round of voting from the election of the President of Ukraine from the OSCE observer mission, the ministry received a letter of appreciation for the cooperation and proper rule of law. In accordance with article 34 of the Law on Elections by the Department of State Department for the Immigration of Persons at Locations for the Provision of Information on Elections to State Registers. Indeed, about half a million dead souls, numbered from long - formed military units and from residential buildings, were reduced by the Central Electoral Commission. These are just the counterfeiting rudiments that led to the sad consequences in 2004, which the Ministry is now refusing to allow in preparation for the elections. For the purpose of operating passports to citizens who were 18 years of age before and on the day of their election, the units were operational. The DAI units provided a technical inspection of the motor vehicle involved in the transport of electoral documents. During the time of the President’s election and election from October 19 to January 25, more than 1,050 reports of violations and other electoral-related events were recorded by the internal affairs authorities, including during the electoral campaign of 717 reports, during the voting day of 259 reports, after the day of the vote until yesterday more than 80 such reports. In most cases, it was a hooligan act, the detection of advertising materials printed with violations of legislation, theft, damage to the property of the agitators, political parties and blocks, reports of electoral bribery, violations of the voting order for the place of residence. According to these facts, 49 criminal cases have been committed, 80 have been brought to justice, and in more than 280 cases the information has not been confirmed, as a result of which the decision to refuse a criminal offence has been made. In 310 cases, materials are sent to the Public Prosecutor’s Office and to the District Electoral Commission, and checks are carried out on the rest of the materials. The most important violation that could have evolved in the process of falsifying elections from the point of view of the Ministry was. First. Attempts to bribe voters that we actively discovered and failed to mass-produce. The vast majority of such reports and detained citizens who tried to buy votes belonged to the candidates of President Janukovic. The other one. The falsification of voting at home was also carried out within the framework of the existing legislation under article 97 of the CPC, following statements made by citizens who did not make such statements. Among them are those who are dead but who seem to have agreed to vote at home. Such citizens were found to be 6400, and according to these facts, materials were collected from the prosecutor’s office to respond to the falsification of documents that could have led to the falsification of elections. I want to emphasize once again, both the first and second directions were quickly discovered by the police and our active biases did not allow for the expansion of counterfeiting schemes that were obviously planned at political headquarters. In this connection, on January 14, the Ministry of Internal Affairs prepared a directive on the detection of the counterfeiting of voter statements on the right to vote in the President’s election outside the voting room. In accordance with the instructions, all applications were required, I would stress, solely on the basis of allegations of counterfeiting, that the examinations should be conducted in full compliance with the Criminal Procedure Code of article 97. The directive did not provide for the conduct of checks and all citizens’ claims, but it was for the purpose of conducting an investigative examination only on the basis of statements made by observers, trusted persons, national deputies, or Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, in her January 15 protest, the Henprocuratorate noted that the examination of applications for organization and voting in accordance with article 27 of the President’s Election Act was part of the electoral commission. There is a contradiction between two legal rules, between the Presidential Elections Act and the Criminal Procedure Code, which no one can repeal on any day, including the President's election day. So I think I need to amend the current Presidential Election Act. I would like to stress that the requirements of article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code on the need to respond to any claim made to internal affairs bodies cannot be repealed. The correctness of the IMF's principle position on such phenomena was confirmed on January 17th of this year by the rulings of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, which were brought to the attention of CEC officials and their representatives on the ground. The management of the Ministry of Election Preparation also explained the responsibility of valid legislation for obstructing the exercise of electoral law, falsifying electoral documents, voting more than once, violating the secret of voting, falsifying documents. [[Article 157]] [[Article 158]] [[Article 158.1]] [[Article 159]] [[Article 358]] It is because of active intelligence from the Ministry of Internal Affairs that these violations have not become of a mass nature. And the unanimous conclusions of the political forces and observers did not affect the outcome of the first round. In particular, I would like to touch on the artificial issue, which, unfortunately, has recently been blown up by one of the political forces on state-owned events, the Ukrainian polygamy. I would like to inform you that this combination, together with the EDAPS and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine since 2007, has been producing Ukraine's external passports using a polycarbonate page. Then the price of such a passport rose sharply, and the income of the private structure from this government business exceeds 500 million dollars a year. At the end of the year, we have to make a new agreement. However, the management of the Ukrainian polygraph combination in its reply refuses to conclude a contract with the Ministry, this state-owned enterprise refuses to enter into a contract with the Ministry of Passport Printing, requiring the continuation of unintelligible media services in this matter by EDAPS. The Ministry of Finance decided to change the head of the state enterprise. He was changed by his command, appointed a new deputy under the regime. The Ministry of Internal Affairs carried security on one of the six passersby of this combination. However, on January 25, 2010, at six o’clock in the morning, at the turn of the Chevchenkov Paradise administration, a report was received that unknown persons were trying to take over the construction of the Ukrainian polygraph combine. An investigative task force was immediately set up, headed by a deputy chief of police, who moved into the area of the van. It turned out that there were a number of national MPs on the scene, as well as some 20 who were represented by their guards. It was these people who refused to allow the newly appointed and established executive corps to enter the territory of the newly appointed and established task force and, I emphasize, the unit’s security service. All talk of fighters, unknown terrorists, who then distributed national MPs, is false. The director’s duties were accompanied by a combination of appropriate service certificates. The militia did not intervene in this process, but documented it. At a time when tear gas and water hydrants were used against the employees of the combined and acting director of the People’s Deputies of the Party of the Regions, the police detained all those who organized the fight. Among these detainees, I have a list of them, there are Georgian nationals, as well as White Church and Kremenchug residents, who were taken to the compound and held there as fighters. [[That's right for the Party of the Regions to answer about the Georgians.]] Also, police officers at this time did not allow about 50 more guards of the national MPs who wanted to enter the area of the van in order to strengthen the fighting. From my point of view, the police did the right thing, and all those who organized the riot kept, among them, two members of the security team who did not comply with the legal requirements of the militia, and 16 others, the so-called guardians of the national MPs. Especially for me, Mikli Janović, I would like to emphasize that no broken skulls or other fears have occurred there. The hospital was approached by a citizen, if not mistaken, Shamray, who had his face cut from the glass during the blast of the glass wall on this combination. So any other statement is just the desire of businessmen to suppress passions and involve the leadership of the entire faction under the premeditated idea of printing extra ballots. I would like to point out that the printing of ballot papers began today, but it does not cause any alarm. It was just a special operation by businessmen to put a whole large faction of parliament into their business rallies. And the last thing I'd like to say to you. Regrettably, the events now taking place in Parliament show that few of the initiators are interested in an objective consideration of the matter. Clearly, we live in a variety of moral dimensions. When police warn employees of district and territorial election committees about the inadmissibility of falsification in 2004 it is called intimidation. When we announce the decisions of the courts to be executed and their failure to execute them threatens two years of imprisonment. Three years. Free will, it's called pressure. When the police detain those who hold a badge at a state firm under the political cover of MPs, it's called terrorism. I am. In general, I understand very well, there is a political force that realizes that in order to win, it is necessary to break the normal regime of the electoral process that took place in the first round of presidential elections. That's where the polygraph was attacked. Ukraine, the seizure of the courts, I'm afraid, will still be. In this context, I am also considering today's attempt to take me out of office. Yes, for the first time, the Party of Regions is going to the President's election without the Minister of the Interior's allowance. I understand that. I also remember the classic of Soviet cinema – "Cold Summer of 53". When the gang tried to take over the village, they had to kill a militiaman first. I understand that very well. To overthrow the minister and the road to the robbery is open. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are your methods that haven't changed, unfortunately, since 2004, and today's vote will demonstrate who wants peace and fair elections, and who wants to bring the country back to mass forgings like 2004. The gang's already in the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! The minister's report has been completed. Please sign up for a question to the minister. There's a recording going on. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Dmitri Smoker, faction of the Party of the Regions. You don't? Is there a Dmitri Smoker? You don't? Please, next. Deputy Semerak People's Party, Timoshenko Yulia Block
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u9	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have learned from the media that in the days of the Gitomir region, unfortunately, these media reported that the members of the Party of Regions, the deputies of the Supreme Council, had broken down the office of another national deputy and destroyed property there. You know, it kind of happens in one row with the "Ukraine" combo, the seizure of the court, with the theft of cards into the Speaker of the Supreme Council. All of this is done by the deputies of one faction. Please tell me, is this some kind of banditry, or is it the essence of this party, or is the IMF not dealing with its powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u10	Thank you. I know, really, about this case. I'm not ready to say right now whether I was a burglar or a peaceful move, because there are different points of view on this issue. But that's not the point. In fact, the members of the People's Party of the Regions were insulted by cards that had no meaning, in my view, in the electoral process. A letter containing no appeal to vote "for" or "against" the two presidential candidates contains the only logo: "Stop Bunny!" If the Party of Regions in each rabbit profile recognizes its candidate, I am not to blame. And I don't see this as a violation of the electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u11	National MP Moshak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Korj Viktor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u13	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u14	Korju.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u15	Victor Corge, microphone, please. Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u16	Yuri Vitalyevich, well, no doubt, a more edious policy in Ukraine than you are. And there's probably no need to comment on all the lawlessness you're making. But I just want to remind you that from this parliamentary rostrum at various times, you've told so many lies, slanders and nonsense that it's inconceivable in any civilized country to imagine it. You argued that you knew who poisoned Yushchenko, which deputies were involved, who had assaulted a witness in a well-known criminal case whose legs had been ripped off. You showed photos of lawyer Poluchovich about a $2 million bribe. On the other hand, twice you refused to initiate a criminal case, and six months in fact. For six months, the trial was stalled in a case that no one is dealing with today. Do you not realize that such conduct is completely incompatible with the assumption of such a high office? I think you should resign voluntarily.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. I've never hidden anything that's ready for any answers, but it just doesn't make sense to answer a lie. Mr. Victor, you just go to the former Dynamo objects that you sold out to commercial structures and repent there. And then you're gonna ask me questions that don't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u18	People's Deputy Sinic, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u19	I'd like to give Anna Herman a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u20	Hanna Herman, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u21	Mr. Secretary, I returned from Artemovska for days, where a sick woman, a mining widow, died, was attacked by militia officers on the day of the vote to see if she could actually go to the polls. She was chained to a bed and tried to get up to see if she could really walk. After that stress and shock, she died. Yes, Minister, not even the Fascists. And if you had to answer for everything you did while in office, you would be twenty times a hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u22	I'll tell you, Your Honor, Mrs. Hanna, it's very simple. If you have such facts, write a statement to the prosecutor's office. If this really confirms the illegality of action, they'll answer. But tell me, where would those of your activists be allowed to vote at home, but are they already in the home? At Borrodishteski’s grandmother died three years ago, but she wants to vote at home on your behalf. So where are we going with the election committee? And what, the police don't mind that thousands of people you've tended to vote at home just to throw ballet for them? In this case, it is your immoral activity to overwhelm the so - called home voting that has led to the discomfort of the disabled and the really sick. Because you wanted to add to the disabled and really sick people who want to vote for one political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I call on the people's deputies and urge the minister to act in the matter and to stop the political demonstrations on the one hand and on the other. National Deputy Gritzak, faction of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the Crimea police officers were harshly involved in the work of the electoral boards, demanding samples of sealing. Oh, oh, oh, oh, The First Deputy Chief of the Chipak Directorate personally obstructed the work of the District Election Commission of District Electoral District No. 2, which was the subject of a statement made by the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of the Prosecutor. Who will be responsible for the wrongdoing of your subjects, who gave them such orders? And the second question. Under whose orders your first deputy, Clovis, or the leadership of the Kiev chapter, ordered the use of tear gas by the militia behind them. There was a police storm ahead, then there were bandits, and then there was the police helping them. And we'll see all of this today if we get a video from the U.S. Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u25	Thank you. First of all, I'm glad you're so well aware of the situation in Crimea. Ask the next deputy in your faction, he'll explain. Actually, I will. Indeed, some 50 seals were lost during the elections. There are official statements. I'm sorry. Someone's been stolen, someone's lost. So the police are actually responding to this, and they're testing the reality of the samples. There's nothing illegal about this. Whatever you say. The intervention of Chipak’s first deputy chief is not an intervention. He proved to the people the decisions of the courts that prohibited the registration of voters on the day of the vote. You know that the right decision came into force at the time and the charges were not admissible. His failure to do so led to his being deprived of his will. That's why Mr. Chipak brought to them information about the court's decision and no more. But we do live in different planes of approach. You think compliance with the law and the requirements of law enforcement is an intervention, and I think our active position on the requirements of law enforcement has led to a peaceful first round that everyone has agreed to. You don't agree, and you see any police action in order, discipline, legally, as an obstacle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u26	National Deputy Tedeev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u27	I'll give Bond a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u28	Valérie. From the hall. There's a Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! One minute! Is Ted's national deputy? From the hall. Yeah, he hit and left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u30	None. All right, calm down. National MP Popov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u32	People's deputy Rybak. Now Popov's microphone, please, and then Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u33	Please tell Vadim Kolsnichenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u34	Vadim Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u35	Mr. Lucenko, according to experts during your leadership, the militia has become an armed gang that has become dangerous to the people. And you follow the folk tale: "Swow in the eyes, he will tell the dew of God." Your 15-minute monologue proved one thing, you're confessing crimes, but you think it's worth it. But it's an assessment of your political strength. Please answer: Have you decided to take the polygraph or have you carried out the criminal order of Timoshenko? That's the first one. And the second. Have you introduced the idea of awarding the Lozinski Bandit to a letter or the Merit Medal, or will you continue to cover his search? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to remind you that you have Mr. Lozinsky's roots because he was a trusted person of Yanukovich's in the district where I defended democracy. That's where he set the schools on fire, where he kidnapped the teachers, destroyed the ballots. I remember all of this very well, so do not be overjoyed. But that's not what this is about. I want to go back to the situation in the "Ukraine" polygraph. First of all, let one polytechnologist say, who and why do they need extra ballots, how can they be used at all? It's an idiocy that only an ignorant person could come up with in the electoral process. Everyone knows that the number of ballots is supposed to come together, the numbers are supposed to come together, the signatures are supposed to come together on the roots and all the other documents. This is the absolute abracadabra that was imposed on you by businessmen to protect their interests. But it's different. Tell me what was done on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday six in the combined territory of 20 Polish and Kyiv natives, who were represented by the People’s Deputies of the Party of Regions, including Stepanyan Anushovan Gagicovich, a native of Georgia, is what I explain to you as a fan of Georgia. But I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u37	Complete the question. Yes, Vladimir Rybak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u38	Please give the floor to the deputy Lukas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u39	Olena Lukash, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u40	Thank you. This is not a question; I will not imagine what this person is being asked about; this is a statement of the commission of an offence addressed to Alexander Medvedzko, who is present here. The well-respected Attorney-General, I have a decision in my hands and, in accordance with the judgement of the court which entered into force, the actions of the person standing on the rostrum on the illegal agitation for Timoshenko Yulia Vladimirovna are illegal. I have two court rulings in my hands, according to which the officers of the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine are found to have been unlawfully required by the electoral commissions and the citizens of the home voting data. These were actually the decisions of the courts, and these were the ones you actually broke the laws. Let the citizens of Ukraine know that they can vote peacefully at home. And this year they were voted equal to 4 per cent in the seventh and sixth years of the elections. You'll never apologize to them, but that's not exactly what's required. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u41	In answer to questions, I can say that there is indeed a court decision that twice declared the minister’s acquittal on vacation illegal, referring to the clarification of the Constitutional Court. What is true is that the explanation of the Constitutional Court was before the Cabinet Act recognized my status as a political actor, not as a civil servant, but as a political actor, as well as anyone else. However, at the time of the appeal, I was denied the appeal, and I stopped this agitation from the same second, because I am legally obedient. But you do not want to hear the decision of the same court that made the same decision on the same day that voting at home is possible only with a medical certificate, and it is not possible to register voters on election day. Unfortunately, you are selectively approachable to the courts. I may doubt this decision, but I did. Little is said in the court's decision to “require Lucenko to abstain from agitation”, and the second I abstained from it, I will abstain. But I can see so much that you want to give me that opportunity by taking me down, you're going to get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u42	People's Deputy Bodnar, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u43	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. First of all, I'm sad to say that the representatives of the Party of the Regions are totally not interested in making transparent choices and making counterfeiting smaller. Another thing I can tell you. That the Ministry of Internal Affairs has worked very professionally during these elections, and I am grateful to both the Minister and the Ministry of Internal Affairs for responding very quickly to all allegations of violations of the current legislation and during the elections, and during and before the elections. Now I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs. You know, this KP "Ukraine" has broken the glass -- it's state property. I ask you to note that the perpetrators of the damage to state property are brought to criminal liability. The other one. What are we going to do with Greek? At this point, there's information that representatives from the Party of Regions are walking on our grandmothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u44	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u45	First of all, I would like to thank the deputies of all factions, because of all the factions called and thanked for the normal work of the militia, I want to thank them. Why? Because 300,000 internal affairs officials, 220,000 officers worked honestly and loyally during the electoral process. None of them complained about it, none of them staged the rally, and didn't throw the thorny hedgehogs on the road to stop the rally movement, blow up the media, or do anything that Janukovic supporters did in 2004. I want to thank everyone who supports the police in this difficult situation. And those who call them gangs, as one of the members of the Party of Regions said today, are simply because he lives in another country, he dreams of a Kremlin. Everyone who thinks about Ukraine never has the right to insult 220,000 people who get much less than you, without stealing from many of you, yet carry out their difficult mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, once again I am addressing you, let us not turn this issue into political accounting. I'm talking to the speakers, I'm talking to the minister again. Please, National Deputy Pierre, your question, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u48	Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u49	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! The situation in the country certainly gives us reason to reflect on where we are going. When there's an artificial imbalance in the Central Electoral Commission in favour of the Party of the Regions and there's a conscious balance to hold this imbalance in order to hold elections when most of the committee is composed of people who support this party. When the Court of Appeal is seized, action is taken to capture other government agencies and institutions where ballot papers are printed. The question is, are you not the last bastion to be destroyed today by the Party of the Regions, so that completely uncontrollable, with gang-like approaches, as in 2004, elections will be held, announced by Moscow or directly from the CIA, absolutely false information, and then waited for the action of opponents. And when it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u50	Thank you. I don't think that even though someone can take on such a big role as the last bastion, the last bastion and the last one to show will is the people of Ukraine. I am absolutely convinced that it is he who must answer the question that he sees as the leader of the nation. But the date has normal, honest, transparent choices. Sadly, society quickly forgets what is bad. We forgot what happened with the hands of the police in 2004, when Yanukovic went to the presidents for the first time, today it's worth mentioning. My task is very simple: not to repeat it all, allowing people to vote freely, calmly, without forgeries for what they think is necessary. After the first round of elections, no political force, at least of the two largest forces, no candidate, who went on the second round, claimed that the election had been falsified that had influenced the outcome of the process. From my point of view, this is a serious result of the militia, which I have the honour to lead. I'm sure the second round will be the same if I'm the minister of the interior. But this obviously does not take into account today’s quitters, because they want to throw away the militia, take over the warehouse, and let them rob them with impunity. It's absolutely obvious to everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u51	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u52	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I want to ask you about this situation. Obviously, we have to separate the minister’s office in the ministries as a political and position, meaning as a civil servant. And obviously, after we've developed these things, we'll be able to eliminate the politicization of these structures of all ministries, and first of all, the law enforcement agencies. How do you feel about this? The other one. Obviously you're monitoring the situation in the structure you're leading is 220,000. Please tell me how mood is today compared to 2004, when I can confirm that what the police did in 2004 and that today is heaven and earth. And I witnessed the rape of every militiaman in political harmony with one or the other political forces. And the third. How many have been detected, please tell me, what are the employees' violations of this election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u53	Thank you. First of all, you're absolutely right, we need to implement the European economic model of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine and give up the Soviet model of the ministry of the police, which unfortunately it is. When you first elected the civil minister of internal affairs in this room in 2005, this first step was taken. There's a separate political actor who's responsible for the Ministry's activities before the coalition and gives him guidance and priorities in the work, and there are individuals who carry pursuits who have no right to any political activity. This regime has been assured of me for years. I have a right to agitation, to my point of view, to speak to you, to debate, to debate, but this is not a right of a militiaman. But it would certainly be useful to establish in the law the concept of “first deputy – head of the national police” and even better the “police”. Then everything will be in place and there will be no problems. The other one. During the election, there were no cases of militia involvement in the electoral process, at least I was not aware of such cases. Third. I don't monitor the mood in my subjects, they have the right to speak politically on the day of the vote, as they see fit. But I know that none of them want to return in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u54	National MP Blackwolf, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, well, I really enjoyed your comparison with the fact that in the movie "Cold Summer 53", really, before the village was captured, a local policeman was killed, the same thing is happening now, and I agree with you absolutely. And I think it's an attempt to start a criminal counter-revolution in Ukraine and start with a minister of internal affairs. But there are a number of other signs of this happening. I'd like you to stop on this subject a little bit, but you have some operational developments, predictions of further action that you would like to do by the Party of Regions, by their eyepiece Janukovich on election fraud and violation of the rule of law in Ukraine. And I want to really emphasize that really the sky and the earth are compared to that when the regions were in power today, the state and the militia and the order in the country, and that's also true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u56	Thank you. You know, with your permission I will still refrain from predicting that who will do this is not my own, in principle, the competence as long as I am the Minister of Internal Affairs, I know only one thing, there will be no mass bribery, because we will be handing in at a moment, there will be no carousel in the wine of ballot papers, as it has been practised, unfortunately, in many elections and there will be no counterfeiting including any judgment on a particular issue. I can only assure her that the police are willing to work if they give her that opportunity. But this is where politicians come together, and it's up to them to determine that we're interested in a second round of elections as peaceful and honest as the first or any other one like 2004. Right now, the question is, when they decide to vote for all factions, they'll practically vote they love Lucenka, they don't love me, there's mistakes, or there's no, today we're on the threshold of the second round of final voting for the President of Ukraine, we want to vote calmly, as it was on the first tour, leave it in the ministry and give it a score on the second day, you want to change the situation and return 2004 with mass forgerys and others, of course, you have to change, take it down, beat the militiaman and continue to go on and on and on. I'm absolutely convinced of this as, hopefully, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, time for questioning is over. I thank the Minister of Internal Affairs. Now we have to figure it out. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce the presence of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the First Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine. The Supreme Council, is there a need to listen? Well, please, let's make a deal like this, ladies and gentlemen: let's propose a five-minute stand, shall we? Ladies and gentlemen, if there is the will of the Supreme Council, there will be statements by members of the faction. No, let's move on to making a decision. Is there no objection? I invite you to the rostrum of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedjk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Constitution stipulates that the President of the State is elected by the citizens of Ukraine on the basis of a general, equal and direct right to vote by secret ballot. The State’s obligation to ensure the implementation of constitutional rights for both presidential and electoral candidates. Clearly, the constitutional situation at first appeared to be quite complex in its implementation. The legal reform that is taking place in our country depends largely on the willingness of state institutions, primarily judicial and law enforcement agencies, to serve every human being for the protection and protection of his or her rights and freedoms for security. In accordance with the “On Elections of the President of Ukraine” Act, officials of internal affairs bodies as executive authorities in elections should create the right conditions for the election committees to exercise their powers, to ensure their protection and to protect electoral documentation. One of the basic principles of internal affairs according to the requirements of the Ukrainian Police Act is independence from any political community. U.S. government departments prohibit political parties, movements, and other social groups that have a political goal. Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine prohibits the unlawful involvement of anyone in the electoral process. At the same time, on January 15 - 16, the District Attorney’s Office reported on the actions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs officials in the areas and areas of the State in connection with mass inspections in the order of article 97 of the KPC, Ukraine, of written statements by voters regarding their ability to vote for a candidate for the President of Ukraine outside the constituencies in relation to health. It was found that these actions took place in order to carry out the written assignment of the deputy minister of the interior as of January 14, of this year to the heads of the principal administrations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The actions taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine were contrary to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the requirements of articles of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President. In connection with this Office of the Attorney General, on January 15, this year, there was a protest against the actions of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, who was satisfied the following day, and the commission was withdrawn from the main administrations and administrations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the regions. Dear national MPs, in general, have received over 1,000 appeals regarding violations of electoral legislation, with 80 percent of which legal decisions have already been taken and appropriate response measures have been taken, of which more than 400 have been sent to electoral committees, local authorities, and internal affairs. Of the above-mentioned references, 1 out of every 5 refers to irregularities in the conduct of pre-election agitation, 1 out of every 7 — electoral bribery, 1 out of 14 — violations in the compilation of voter lists. The Attorney General's Office has been tasked with ensuring that the laws of the internal affairs authorities are enforced when they are tested for voting outside the constituencies. As an example, on January 17, 2010, the Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, issued a bill requiring the cessation of the illegal involvement of police officers in the electoral process and the work of electoral committees on electoral matters at home. In addition, the authorities of the internal affairs have been satisfied with the 15 prescriptions of the Kharkiv District Attorney’s Office regarding the illegal conduct of police checks on voters from outside the constituency rather than directing such appeals to the electoral commissions. Four protests were brought to the public prosecutor’s office in the district of Cherka. These documents on the prosecution's response to department heads Ukraine’s interior ministries are fully satisfied. In addition, there have been allegations of illegal criminal offences on the basis of voter requests to vote at home. The authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Lugansk and Dnipropetrov region of Ukraine have now revoked 15 criminal orders. In all, a thousand 996 allegations and reports of violations of electoral legislation were made to law enforcement agencies during the pre-election campaign and election elections of the President of Ukraine. As a result, 83 criminal cases have been dealt with. They are the vast majority of these crimes of general crime, not related to the violation of electoral legislation, such as the acts of hooliganism in relation to the agitators of a political organization, the causing of bodily harm to them, the theft of property from or damage to the premises of these organizations. From a total of 16 cases are investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office, including 11 cases for violations of electoral law, including 6 cases for obstruction of the exercise of electoral law, 4 cases for voters. At the polling station more than once and 1 on the right, according to the illegal destruction of electoral documentation. As an example. The Melitopol Interstate Prosecutor's Office of the Zaporez Region investigates a criminal case, violated by article 157 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code concerning a person who offered money to the citizens for voting in support of one of the candidates in the Ukrainian Presidential Office. In addition, you are aware of the events of the “Ukraine” polygraph by the Ukrainian Attorney-General’s Office of the United States of America, which have been investigated by the prosecutor’s office of the Shevchenk district on January 21, this year, under article 365, part 2, and article 345, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Five more criminal cases have been committed because of the excess of authority or official authority, forgeries, the deliberate cause of bodily harm to the average, the attack on a law - enforcement officer, the seizure of public buildings or public buildings. As an example. On January 17, the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Ternopil region of the congregation filed a criminal case against two citizens under article 296, part 2, and article 345, part 2, on the attack against a DAI employee who was guarding the public order at the polling station in the village of Vosovka. The Office of the Attorney-General also examined the illegal printing of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. On 15 January, a criminal case was committed under article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Also, according to a decree of the Attorney General on 14 January 2010, the State Register of the Pecher District in Kiev of the State Administration has been excluded from the “One State Register” of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs an unreliable record that the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine is Siros. The record now includes Pasenyuk Alexander Mikhailovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u59	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to the rostrum of the first deputy head, the head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime of Vasil Sergiyovich Gritsak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Security Service, in liaison with other law enforcement agencies, the Prosecutor's Office and the police, has taken a number of measures to ensure the free will of the people during the first round of presidential elections. The Ukrainian Security Service established an operational headquarters, comprising the heads of the central departments of the Ukrainian Security Service. The same headquarters were operated by regional security agencies in Ukraine. In addition, on the electoral day before and during the election, operational groups were formed and operated to ensure immediate response to citizens’ appeals for violations of Ukrainian legislation. In addition, the telephones of trust worked. Phones of trust were highlighted in the means. More loyally, on the official website of the Ukrainian Security Service, and we've received a lot of information that has actually been tested and found an appropriate response in real time. In addition, the Ukrainian Security Service used a network of telecommunications systems to broadcast the results of the citizens’ will to the Central Electoral Commission, as well as the security of the server itself. With regard to information security, a number of shortcomings were identified, which were immediately reported to both the Central Electoral Commission and the District Election Commissions, which tended to be eliminated in most cases immediately. I would also like to report that from January 1st to January 27th in the last month, 311 cases of violations of electoral legislation have been documented, received and documented, of which 65 have been transferred to the Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine in accordance with article 97. According to our D.A., 5 criminal cases have been committed, 49 information has been transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to use it., for reaction, 29 information has been transferred to the District Commission, and 13 materials have been transferred to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, 11 materials have been transferred to the local authorities to address the deficiencies. To date, the Security Service is taking all necessary steps to ensure once again the free will of citizens during the second round of presidential elections. Thank you for your attention. The performance is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the speech is over. Thank you, too, sit down, Vasil Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any proposals for deputies to discuss this issue? [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. I am. One minute, distinguished national MPs. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, if they insist, can determine. So I'm going to put it to a vote, who's in charge of discussing this issue? And please determine how to vote. I am voting on the proposal to discuss this issue, i.e. the report of the Minister of Internal Affairs and the speeches of the Attorney-General and the First Deputy Head of the Security Service. And by voting, please identify yourself. [[11:41:40]] For-187 The decision is not taken. For the faction, please. The region's party is zero, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 150, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense 36, the Communists, the Litvina Block is 0, the non-fractional is 1. In accordance with article 240, paragraph 6 of the resolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies shall be voted upon after the discussion of the matter has been concluded. Alexander Lavrinovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, a highly respected society, I think that after the speech of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, we no longer need to discuss in detail every step taken by the Ministry and the Minister personally during the election campaign. We have only one need: perhaps we can show this number of court decisions that we have. The minister's actions and his subordinates are considered unlawful by the courts of Ukraine. And those copies of the decrees for the violation of a criminal case concerning the actions of internal affairs officials who did it in accordance with the minister's orders. I think it's time to put an end to lawlessness in the body that has to protect the law. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the draft decree on the release of Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich from the post of Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u63	Honourable National Deputies, from the government, the position of the government is the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Turchinov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is a personal matter. I'm asking you to calm down. Please calm down. Well, don't turn the Supreme Council. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm asking you to calm down. I won't be long. I want to point out that this is a very serious personnel question. And instead of having him professionally, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws to discuss, here the Party of Regions is trying to turn him into a court of law. As a result, respected colleagues, I pay attention to the media. During the discussion, at the time when questions were asked, a third of the Party of Regions was not present and could not even ask questions when they were called. And now there's an attempt to open the way to falsification by forging this vote. I'm asking the media to show the room, show how many there are no deputies from the regions for which they will vote to fabricate the vote, for the production of the vote and for the election of the President of Ukraine. So, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, given the importance of this issue, I would very much like to make a roll call on the national MPs and exclude the fake vote on this important personnel issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you, let's not whistle, let's show some presence in a normal place. Dear colleagues, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Lucenko Jurija Vitaliyovich. [[Registration number 6003]] Please vote. [[11:45:46.]] For 231 It's been decided. It's being announced. Let's talk about whether we should take a break. The factions, please. Region Party - 171, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 1, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 11, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 2. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the organization of the work of electoral commissions]] [[Registration number - 6004]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, we have taken the first step to prevent the will of citizens from being distorted. We need to take the second step. I was a firm opponent in making any change to the Presidential Elections Act during the election campaign. And if you look at the project that's being proposed right now, it doesn't apply to any standards that regulate election competitions. They're only focused on trying not to set the results. Not allowing for the summation of voting in individual districts, districts or Ukraine as a whole. Because we have absolutely convincing information that this is the direction that is currently being chosen by one of the candidates who is unable to get the support of the citizens and instead of this support, to organize the immediate distortion of the results of the elections in Ukraine or, in principle, to make it impossible to establish the results of the elections in Ukraine. To this end, changes are proposed to ensure, regardless of the will of the individual candidate, the full composition of the election boards, their work on the day of the vote and the fair results of the election. In doing so, we will certainly be confident that the monitoring of the work of the commission, according to the vote, by establishing the results of the will in Ukraine is so wide that we receive an honest open victory for the candidate who will receive the greatest support from the citizens of Ukraine, not the one who will try to break the elections in Ukraine. I would like to ask everyone to take the next step that will guarantee that we receive 8 February information about the fact that we have completed the election campaign of the President of Ukraine and we already know the name of the next President of Ukraine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies, if there are any questions before Alexander Volodymyrovich, please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Mikhaylo Chechtov, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u68	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Indeed, the philosophy of the law is designed to ensure that the commissions perform purely technical functions and bring them to the brink of political process. Do you think we're practically closing the locks on the subjects of political adventurers who are willing to do everything they can to ensure that the commissions do not accept the legitimate will of the people if the bill is passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u69	The most important approach is conceptual. You and I have been taking the general approach for several years now that the organization and the holding of elections rely on the representatives of those who are competing under the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act, when the political parties are competing, now that the candidates for the Ukrainian Presidents are competing. They form this system of committees that organizes the elections themselves. And we came up with a situation where there are two applicants left. And if one of them understands the unpredictability of these races and doesn't have the dignity to admit his defeat, he can use it, and we have doubts that he's just getting ready to try not to be able to get results. That's what a project is all about and every norm that it has is predicting opposition to that particular direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u70	The People's Deputy of the Upper East, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u71	Uphill, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc. Dear voters, honourable chairman! I have a question. When considering the first question, it was very much indicated which vachanalia was made with seals that made other seals and so forth. So the question is, how will the district commission work, if, of course, three, four, five certified protocols are brought back to it by the 3, 4, 5 seals of those district committees that hold the so - called meeting, three persons will hold meetings, and five persons will hold meetings. That's the first one. And what will happen is that I have no doubt about it. Yesterday, for example, the District Election Commission, where most of the Party of the Regions gave an example: in 37 cases, it ignored the opinion of one of the presidential candidates and appointed quite other people who were not prepared for these positions, they planned to serve exclusively as members of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u72	Sir, I can tell you, your confidence that the vachanalia will be, once this law is passed, will be greatly reduced, because the vachanalia will not be allowed after that. As far as the seals are concerned, there will be one divisional commission across Ukraine on each site, with one seal, and it will be fully formed if a candidate, one of the presidential candidates, your candidate, does not call off his representatives, or if they just don't show up. Then the summation will be given to those who will directly ensure the work of the constituency, and this is one legal person, one seal and one protocol, and one of us is Ukraine, and there will be one president.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u73	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u74	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The point is that our reporter has completely double standards. Literally a month he fought personally against us in this room considering changes to the law that are absolutely necessary, first and foremost, to regulate how people who can't get to the precincts or those who fake documents or demands to come home to him. And the question is, can you take buses between different areas and vote several times? This proved to be of little importance. Today, it is important that the Commission be able to determine the results regardless of how many members of the commission will be present. The same is true today of the CLTC activity that no one notices. For example, in certain areas where the Party of Regions wants to ensure its own advantage, the number of district heads is not proportionally assigned to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u75	As far as double standards are concerned, I know those who practice them by regularly changing them. But I also know exactly what I was and remain against changing the rules of the election race. They must remain constant. And what I'm proposing today is not to any extent applicable to the rules of the electoral race. It only applies to making it impossible to break elections through the actions of one of the presidential candidates in order to make it impossible to make decisions on election committees. I very much hope that these standards will be good prevention and no need to use them. And when the committees realize that there will be no way to break the election, they will work in full, and they will sum it up in a good way, and we will get a good result.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u76	Bogdan Hubsky, faction of the Timoshenko block. Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u77	I would like to take note of the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which notes that this bill has major flaws that do not face valid legislation, the Constitution, and suggests that we send this bill for further work. I think we should stick to the conclusions of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And at the same time, what I'm saying is, really, it turns out that the commission can make and sit down important decisions at any warehouse in numbers. So there's one person, two people coming in, and you can decide to vote in some way. There's no idea of the quorum at all. I think this is going to lead not to order, but to total chaos. And really, I don't understand the reporter. A few days ago, he said, and now he's confirmed that the rules of the game cannot be changed, and he's going to be able to change the same rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u78	Well, I guess I have to say it again, because you've been mishearing that I'm still a firm opponent in changing the rules of the election race. What I can tell you about the conclusion and reference to the violation is that the word “constitutional” does not need to be used, because there is no violation, it is a conflict with the rules of the law of another, when a quorum is defined in the college bodies. This question is certainly determined by the quorum for decision - making before discussion or by the collective bodies of all. AS TO THE fact that, in this case, this rule may be applied in order for a small number of decisions to be taken, there is no limit to the presence of a committee meeting, only to ensure that there is no wish simply not to participate in a committee meeting on the day of the vote, so that the citizens’ will remains unfulfilled. That won't happen. The results will be established and the President's victory will take place for the next five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u79	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u80	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, first of all, I wanted to thank you for the work you've done under the previous law. And it seems to me that in the previous law you laid down this mechanism to ensure that there was no abuse. Because today, when 50 by 50 divisions are distributed, we've already discussed this in practice, what it's going to be like, if your law is passed and it's going to work, we feel that we can actually get separate areas that will work in two warehouses, which each of them will think that they are the legitimate majority and each of them will approve their decision. We are concerned, then, about the practical application of this law. We understand that you will be motivated by the same political motives. But please tell me, as professionally as possible, how will the commission work when two candidates give 50 percent and each of these 50 percent is the legitimate composition of the commission? Moreover, I think it was a fairly normal step when in your previous legislative initiative, which today is the law, you introduced criminal responsibility for evading the commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. Mr. Valérie, I am pleased to hear it because there is a very precise answer to this question. Of course, we've worked out the possibilities of conducting an honest campaign without trying to distort anything. Then neither you nor I thought that someone in the finals would be able to assume that there was no result at all. That's not what happened. Today, we have reason to believe that that is what they want to offer. There won't be two committees, one commission, one seal, one head, and the most important box with election ballots -- it won't allow anyone, nobody to try to fantasize or make some parallel documents. Everything can be established by opening the box and counting the ballots. This is going to be the result, not any separate separate session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u82	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the questions have been answered. That's a proposition. Let's call it a break. After a break, we will continue to consider the matter and the following questions. No objections? A break is announced in 12.30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on the organization of the work of electoral commissions]] [[Registration number 6004]] The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u84	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to draw your attention to such a regulatory nonsensus as the bill that we are considering today was introduced in exchange last night, on January 27th. So, of course, there was no way that the committee could meet, consider this bill professionally, and make a draft decision, offer you a draft decision in the hall. We've only been given the scientific expertise today. The decision in this draft is that the author is proposed to send this bill for further work. The arguments cited by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, I think they would have been supported by our committee, but unfortunately we were deprived of that possibility. The point is that the author wants to break the principle of collegiateness and in a collegiate body where the decision is to be made by 2/3 votes, he really wants to make a decision by any number of votes. What will that mean in practice? Will this rule make the second round of elections so transparent? Is it possible to believe that this standard will make it impossible for us to falsify? Sadly, no. On the contrary, if a commission sitting in any number of members present makes a decision, this decision from a legal point of view, and from the perspective of a rule of law that we already have for more than a year in the legislative field of elections, it will be regarded as a misstatement of the commission's decision. What else does the author want with his bill? What novel does he propose? He suggests that if a district election committee is unable to gather and make a decision, the decision should be made immediately by the district election commission. The author does not say that a district electoral commission should, for example, object to the action or inaction of a district electoral commission. He believes that the District Election Commission has the apriore to decide for the agricultural election commission whether or not to do so. Hence, the absence of a minimum requirement for members of the electoral board to be present at its meeting in conjunction with the above may lead to even more negative consequences than those whose failure to do so is directed by the project. In the event that the proposed novel is adopted, the results of the vote in the polling station and the signing of the VAT Protocol on the calculation of voter votes are theoretically possible for any minimum number of members of the DTC. A new saying that is suggested to resolve everything on a district election committee is that it is not intended to file a complaint about inactivity. Secondly, a decision on the competence of lower-level electoral committees does not prejudge the decision of a higher-level electoral commission on irregular inactivity. Thus, the adoption of the above - mentioned novel in its proposed form may create preconditions for an unjustified intervention by a high - level commission in the work of the lower-level electoral commissions. By the way, a valid law in some cases grants this right to electoral commissions at a higher level -- to make decisions on issues that belong to the lower-level commission's mandate. For example, a higher-level electoral commission has the right to make a decision on the substance of the matter if the decision of a lower-level electoral commission has been annulled as being contrary to Ukrainian legislation or over-authorized. So, dear fellows, we are here today to listen to an author who opposes changes to the current electoral legislation during the electoral race. But to this day he's not giving up his bill and he's not proposing to withdraw it, so on behalf of the committee, unfortunately, I can't make a decision for you, I can only say to myself as a national deputy: I don't vote in favour of the bill, because it doesn't improve the legal field, it doesn't undo the abuse, it does. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for discussion. Questions, please. Yes, I'm sorry. Please sign up for a question to the committee's first deputy head. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Sergey Podgorny, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u86	Uphill, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Olga Borisovna, this reporter here, the author suggested we don't fantasize, and I still want to fantasize a little bit. The fact is that the bill does not only foresee that the District Commission acts as a divisional commission, in which cases it is not clear. General phrase: “If a district commission fails to carry out its duties, there shall be responsibilities”. But the same procedure -- it concerns the Central Electoral Commission, which will act as district commissions if they fail to do something that is unclear for what reason. And what we have in the Central Commission today is what we know is that 8 people there from the Party of the Regions, together with the Communists, are setting up riots, ignoring all the laws and only by the majority, is that I think Mr. Lavrinović has said that he already knows that the President, with the adoption of this law, will provide them with the Central Commission of Janukovic. So that's how it works, anyway, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u87	Well, as you can see, the author does not propose to make a similar novel for the Central Electoral Commission, fully understanding what such absurdity can lead to. I repeat that the violation of the principle of collegiality here is not a question of debate. In constitutional law, it is clearly defined. And whoever has studied the Constitution and the basis of constitutional law, he knows clearly that a violation of the principle of collegiality leads to any decision-making being made, as said by his colleague Podgorny. Unfortunately, I completely agree with you. It's not even a fantasy, it's a real danger, not only at the level of the Central Electoral Commission, but at the level of the District Election Commissions and the District Election Commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u88	National Deputy Donny, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u89	The collapse of the presidential election is dangerous for the country and it is extremely important that both presidential candidates make statements now that they recognize their opponent's victory regardless of the outcome of the vote. And in this regard, the bill, which is being passed, is certainly supposed to contribute to this. But it has several points that warn and that do not answer the question. And you can imagine there's going to be two sessions of the commission: one under the leadership of the commission's head of one force with a signature and another in the office will be sitting with the secretary, with a seal. So how do we get out of this coalition if we can actually have two commissions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u90	Thank you. I can add to this danger when one commission sits under the head of the head, the other is the secretary, and the county election commission will sit down in its own way, because it also has the right to do so thanks to these novels. The misrepresentation of the novel leads to confusion. A man who will. Well, even if she doesn't want to break it, she's already breaking it. I fully agree with you that free will cannot be acquiesced. Unfortunately, these novelties have led us to have mass violations of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u91	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u92	Dear Olga Borisovno, you know, I wanted to ask you that today your committee is working with a number of bills that relate to amending the Electoral Act. And indeed, the relevance of some issues today is impeccable, hypersensitive. Regrettably, we have to go back to the law before the election, which has settled quite well at times. And in my view, for example, today, we can really change that situation when the electoral boards have already worked out the mechanism of work and today I want to remind you that failure to perform the relevant duties of the members of the electoral board can lead to criminal responsibility. That is why the fuse already exists today. It is a shame that in these elections, we all fight our phobias today. And I think that individual bills also repeat only individual phobias. And for today, in the view of the committee, what practical conclusion did you draw, how will this scheme work in practice? Because you just said that maybe two committees, three commissions, would be created, how would it work?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u93	Thank you. I want to say that unlike your bill that you tabled, which really makes it impossible to abuse and falsify, because there is already information that representatives from the presidential candidates are coming to represent the Party of Regions. They follow the residents, at least the city of Kiev, with the suggestion to write an application for voting at home and to go to the appropriate clinic they have determined to do so even with medical assistance. So the norm that you're proposing is really the norm if it was accepted by the President and signed by the President, which would make it impossible to forge an election. What the author is now proposing is, again, you're absolutely right. First, there is a criminal liability for avoidance, and secondly, there is a rule in the law in force that failure to make a decision also has no consequences. So in this case, we're still going to get the result. And do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u94	Allow me to complete my opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u95	I just wanted to add that if we do this nonsense right now, when, at the very least, the three commissions consider the same issue at the same time, it would be a violation of all democratic legal norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u96	Thank you, time's up, Olga Borisovna. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the bill. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. The People's Deputy of Podgorny, faction of the “Blocca timoshenko” From the factions, please, let's go. Next is Yuri Carmazin from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Honorable Presidium, distinguished voters! After the first round, there was a great deal of opinion that the elections had gone smoothly, that there had been no counterfeiting. Indeed, this may well be the case. Why do I say 'possible' because we have a slightly different information. When we are told that voting at home has gone on the same scale as in the previous elections, we can accept this today, but on one condition that the process that our opponents wanted to launch has been halted, it has been stopped by representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko Block in all the district commissions, who have applied very literately in such cases to the internal affairs authorities to stop this lawlessness. I'll just give you a few numbers. 11 January. Morning. A total of 200,000 house-to-house ballots have been registered. On January 11th, 297,000 applications were registered, i.e. an increase of about 100,000 per day. But the next day, by the end of Tuesday, 600,000 were registered in all the joint commissions, i.e. the increase was twice. And it is from the middle that the mass work of all our official observers, all of our members of the DTC, has begun to bring to the voters the truth, to bring to the voters the responsibility they will bear for violating the law. Therefore, the hysteria started in another camp, and the hysteria continues today because everyone knows that more than 60 per cent of voters are not ready and will not go to vote twice for the candidate. Which is why we need to do everything we can to make this happen, if you'll excuse me, in Donetsk and Lugansk. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the commissions there make the result that a particular candidate needs. That is why mass calls are already coming today to those members of the commission who worked on the first round to make them refuse. Yesterday, literally, the day before yesterday, there were calls made to the members of the district commissions, whom we recommended on their heads to refuse. And that's what Mr. Ohendowski of the CBC did, sir. and many others. With regard to this bill, unfortunately, it does say: “In the case of the inaction of the electoral commission, the higher-level commission has the right to make a decision on the substance of the matter.” For the District Commissions, the High-level Commission is the CLTC, and I reiterate that it is the CLTC that can be identified by eight votes in the majority today by the President. For that to happen, this law must not be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u98	Yuri Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", to prepare Michael Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, today we have put the day’s issue in order, calling “To keep the Constitution, the laws” the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. [[First question]] On this absolutely right requirement, let's see how many people are not in the room, 61st member of the Party of Regions were not in favour. There were no, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, seven men from your block, those who voted in favour. Not registered in writing at the table, there were 11 Communists, there were three who voted from “Our Ukraine” for Donbas. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, who needs such constitutional requirements, it's a little differently called not meeting constitutional requirements. That's what I'm saying for the protocol, that's Lucenka's right, and she wants to -- let her accuse it, any court will stop it and find it illegal. As far as this law is concerned, this law has nothing to do with compliance with constitutional requirements, citizens' rights do not have this bill, absolutely. I understand the courage of science experts, because it takes courage to write down and emphasize in bold language for you, for you, the honourable people's deputies! I quote: “If the proposed novel is adopted, the results of the vote in the polling station and the signing of the VAT Protocol on the calculation of voter votes are theoretically possible by any minimum number of members of the DTC.” I'm deciphering. This, if you take down a quorum of two thirds, is made by a majority, which means even that two against one another. That is, instead of 16 people, three men can vote. That's what this law is about. That's one part of the law. The second part isn't much better. If the decision of the district commission is not acceptable, the district committee may, without complaint, cancel the decision. The third and fourth parts of this law are also designed to be falsified. That's why I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I'm asking you because I see that we have some kind of double use of the Constitution going on. If article 84 provides for the third part that the vote takes place personally, delete the card or give the card removal team to those MPs who are not registered in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u100	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Mikhailo Chechatov faction of the Party of the Regions. Olena Lukash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Dear voters, I want to contact you today to tell you about this law. And really, why do we need to change the electoral law a few days before the day of the vote? What is the need? The answer is extreme. I will answer and read out a statement from the meeting of the Donetsk District Headquarters, Yulia Timoshenko: Realizing that they will never win an election and are familiar with sociology, this is what they recommend to their parties and members of the commission. ‘Paragraph 4. Non-existence of members of the commission on the day of the vote. You must ensure that there is no quorum under article 28, you must renounce the transportation of electoral documents by members of the commission and write a statement of mass falsifications. Item 12. You must place an extra ballot in the voting room and, under the law, invalidate the voting at home.” There are a lot of points here, I can give it to any MP, the media, that's what the BUTT distributes all over the country, knowing that they're not legally going to win the election, but they want not to lose them, and so they come up with these “flips”. That is why this extreme need to amend the law is linked. In fact, in a word, what are we doing? We make it unfavourable, we make it impossible to break the quorum on the day of the vote, at the time of counting, at the time of transport, at the time of identification, until the outcome of the election of the President is announced. The BUT will know: you will respond - even if the Commission meets, you will not complete the local electoral commissions - the President of the local council will give the uninvolved people, the representatives of the territorial community. And that's how it's gonna be, and that's how it's gonna be! So our only goal is to stop those who are trying to hold on to power at any cost, for a day, for a minute, and we know that we have two fuses. The first is the people themselves, the members of the district electoral commissions, who will be included under the budget of the BET in the commissions, but will not go to these violations, we are absolutely confident of that. And second, today's fuse is changes to the law. We understand, however, that today, Yulia Timoshenko's Block is not afraid of legislative restrictions; all their allegations of possible falsifications have become a “fabricated bubble” in the first round. They fear the law itself, fear the electoral process and understand the inevitability of their choices. So I want to tell you, don't be afraid of this law, it's going to make an inconvenient forgery, it's going to make it impossible to break the quorum, and it's going to let us figure out the results of the vote, Ukraine will be one, Ukraine will be the new President.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, from the factions, all those who have signed up, we are now moving from the national deputies to the performances. Vladimir Bondarenko's faction of "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko", next will be the People's Deputy of Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u103	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Among the various means of falsification known in Ukraine and abroad, they are generally unified, they are different and they are different. For example, in Kiev, voter bribes are actively used through Greek distribution systems, there, other products used by Chernevski for several years, allowing him to win. Today he switched this system to the help of the Party of Regions. There's administrative pressure. In particular, yesterday, half the school principals in my district were treated with special methods of intimidation to support Yanukovic. This was done by fellow workers at Kiev’s Chief Education Administration. I invite the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Central Electoral Commission to the Chamber of Pioneers and Youths today, the one in Pechersk, where Mikola Janović Azarov gathers the directors and directors of the medical departments, about 800 people for special treatment. I'd like to say that we're used to going to people instead of calling ourselves. So I think it's going to have the right effect. But there are things that are, well, more rough. It's about dead souls voting, it's called huge numbers. And so that we wouldn't have to let them go, we proposed changes to the law. Sadly, nothing was done to prevent this from happening. So as not to drive buses in a series, as has always been the case in Donetskin, Lugansk, between the districts, and so that thousands of people do not vote twice as they have always done against it. I think there's a lot of other things that are usually used by our opponents, and there's a scream that someone is forging. I can tell you that at the separate sites of the Holy District, and the total in the area 110, about 2,000 ballots have been forged. In this way, the vote clearly shows that Julia Timoshenko is followed by such a line through the bulletin. This was done on one site of 120 such ballots, and on the other, there was also a number. We can look at them someday when the time is right, not before today. We think it didn't affect too much, and 2,000 votes were just stolen from people who voted for Timoshenko. And what is being proposed in this law today is a particularly sophisticated, legislative forgery that makes it possible today to lose a general understanding of the quorum. What is the quorum of the commission? If there is no quorum, each will write his own protocol and submit. I don't think that can be allowed because it's not for these elections, it's a law that can become a practice forever or destroy the electoral system in Ukraine. That's why I'm against it, and I'm calling on everyone not to support this bill because it's not about improving the elections, and it's about forging. This is evidenced by the imbalance in the distribution of district commissions, which in the CLTC, which today is subordinated to the Party of the Regions and is doing in specific areas today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u104	Pavlovsky People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block. Komar will be next. Yuri Miroshnichenko. Who? From the Klukkowski Hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u105	Ah, Yuri Klukkowski. But he passed it on to Yuri to Klukkowska Papuy, so you're going to have six. Then you'll have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u106	Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. I have to say that I'm going to speak, unlike all the other people here who didn't speak in favour of one of the candidates. Thank God, in these elections I have the opportunity to look from a neutral point of view and believe me, it is very important that the winner in these elections is determined according to the will of the citizens, not by the use of gypsy spinning by law as a gypsy by the sun. So, just like turning like a gypsy sun, I can appreciate this bill and it breaks the very legislative basis of the election. I'm going to give some arguments for this one. Which means cancelling the quorum. I'm not going to tell you what they said here, I'm going to share the threat, I'm going to share the fear of a vote break. So I would like to remind those who read the laws that the Law on the Election of National Deputies provides for an appropriate standard, on the day of the vote, the quorum is reduced to half the composition of the commission. If the drafter had proposed such a rule, I would have supported it, one, here he proposes not to establish a quorum at all and thus violate the nature of the collegiate body. I think lawyers understand what that means. With regard to the following issue regarding the right of a high - level commission, such as a district level review rather than a lower - level commission, there is a partial attempt to open the door, since this rule is provided for in part three of the 98th article of the law in force. However, some mines are laid here. District commissions are expected to do so on their own initiative. But the fact that there's nothing to do at first needs to be established. Finally, regarding changes to parts of the twelfth and thirteenth articles, which refer to 85 articles. It seems to me that the person who wrote it with his own hand has completely forgotten the Constitution. I would like to remind the authors of the 1997 Law on Local Self-Government, 140 articles of the Constitution, under which district, district councils are local self-government bodies that represent the common interests of the territorial communities. Honorary colleagues, who have a bearing on the head of the district council or the city council or on the election of the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the representative body of self-government and their officials, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, are not delegated and cannot be delegated. Thus, the bill is written across from the text of the Constitution and breaks the principles of electoral law. I'd like to propose to those who want to win the election: let's not play at the cost of the right, because when it turns to the right, it's no longer a right, it's an abuse, and that's an assessment of how it's done. I hope that voters will be able to evaluate any team that wants to falsify the elections with legislative changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u107	John the Rabbit two and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u108	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I want to start my speech with the words that I spoke not once in this room. Confucius. Who said that a righteous man would make any unrighteous law righteous, and an unrighteous man would make any righteous law unrighteous. So the problem is not how we are dealing with these issues at the legislative level today, but the problem is that there is no trust today between the two constituencies of the electoral process. Because when we passed this law in the Supreme Council, we warned that this law was the product of two blocks “against all”, but then we would have to fight the mistrust between the blocks themselves. I don't think this bill should be adopted, even though there is a threat that will undermine the conclusion, whether or not, of the vote. And we need to stress another, really criminal responsibility of those who block the electoral process, because all interested in ensuring that the elections in Ukraine are held in accordance with the Constitution. Only then can we say that we have some prospect of further democratic development. And in this case, we have to say that whoever does not appear at the meeting falls under criminal responsibility. And all of these things that we're offered today are, again, the formation of counterfeiting mechanisms, but on the other hand. So it turns out that we're trapped because we're dealing with people who don't follow the law. If we stand on the current standard, there is a threat of a break in the work of election committees. If we accept what Mr. Alexander Lavrinovich has to offer, we are once again opening up a counterfeiting mechanism on the other side. So let's talk about not just the legal aspects, let's talk about the moral aspects, let's talk about the legal aspects, let's talk about the values that really are at the heart of any right, because we want to settle all the social relationships that are in society. That they cannot be regulated by law, for this, morally, for this there are values, for this there is an understanding of the concept of “democracy”. And then we will truly be human. That's why I think today's conversation about changes to the President's Election Act is another pyar. We shut down the work of the Supreme Council and let's go, not fool people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u109	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u110	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I'd like, as the previous speaker said, to talk about values and morality, the values that are enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. And the main value of electoral legislation is one of the fundamental rights of a citizen to choose power. And from this point of view, let's look at the legislative innovations, especially the law that we're considering right now. Because the discussion is about competing two busy camps in our hall right now. And it would have to be about the interests of the electorate, whether they would be secured and protected as a result of the adoption of this law, or whether they could be put at risk if they did not pass this law. Because Olena Lukas offered us those directives that were given out in certain regions of the country in the camp of one of the candidates for the presidency. Does this initiative pose a threat to the electorate not to vote on such actions by members of the district district commissions? Of course he does. Because when a person comes to the precinct, he can't vote. And there is a major threat to the democracy of our country. Now, on the other hand, is it limited to the right of members of district constituencies to participate in decision-making and to ensure that objectivity is maintained? Such a right is not limited, since it is only when members of the district district commissions do not appear at their place of work or when an unconscionable candidate and his representatives call off and replace such members of the district and district commissions. And in that case, there's a threat that entire regions, millions of people, won't be able to express their views on any candidate. The government will be elected illegal, the President will not be able to carry out his duties in a legitimate manner. All conflicts will go out on the street. And that, I think, is what we all, dear colleagues, have no right to allow. That is why this law needs to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u111	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! In fact, the importance of issues really allows us today to gather out-of-order sessions to discuss an active law under which the head of this state will be elected, which will shape foreign policy and exercise the powers that it has under the Constitution. But please tell me, are we doing professional work today, or are we fighting phobias here today? The phobias that today have invented political camps and are trying to implement them in legislation. Let's look at the future or the other elections of other state bodies, look at the parliamentary elections, look at the elections of local self-government. Please tell us if we would approve such a law for election to local councils. We would never approve. Today we are talking to you about some fakes or other documents that someone is going to do something about. Well, please tell me, if we had an order today that the day of the space election would attack the CIA and take a record of the election results, what would we do, hang a net on the CBC so no one could get in there? Today, if we are to go back to the professional work on the election law, we need to talk about what the problems are today. And the problems are serious enough. In the first round, there was a serious enough legal burden on certain issues on which lawyers know there is a decision and, by the way, it is very bad that the decision is not always unilateral. There are decisions that completely contradict each other. Moreover, we have heard today that both from the Attorney General and the Security Service and from the Minister of Internal Affairs that there were certain cases when they tried to vote in a way that was not provided for by law. Why don't we go back today to say, "No, let's just say, what are the rules, what are the rules, what are the rules, what do we do?" or give up our phobias and really do the law. I want to thank those drafters of the bill, the law in force, who have put in place a mechanism that does not allow us to usurp power today in district and central election commissions. And this is done by the mechanism that each candidate has equal representation, and most votes are taken. If we talk about the abuse of our rights somewhere today, I'm sorry, Your Honor, for that we have the Attorney General's Office, and for that today a decision has been made in part of the Hall of Law enforcement. And you think this is the solution to the problem? It seems to me that we need to go back to the legal plane and return from this political burden that can turn elections into an endless process that ends with neither the first nor the second candidate getting the result, and you get an extension of the term of office of the current President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. The closing statement is by Alexander Lavrinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the discussion that has now taken place, I think, has sufficiently brightly highlighted the two problems that exist. First, and foremost, the problem is the integrity of politicians in competitions for public office. And if there is no way to win by the rules in force, the desire to use these rules will come into force, so that there is no winner at all. It is in order to make such approaches impossible, and the bill is proposed. I'm going to be very happy, and hopefully it will be that these norms that we're going to adopt with you today will not have to be applied during the election campaign and there won't be any candidates trying to paralyze the work of election committees. But the existence of these standards will be a very effective warning so as not to try to undermine the possibility of establishing the results of the elections. So I ask you to support this bill to enable it to be valid.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, registration number 6004. [[on the organization of the work of electoral commissions]] [[13:10:19]] For 226 The decision is made on the basis of a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u116	The factions, please. The Party of Regions - 172, "Clock of July Timoshenko" - zero, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 25, communists - 27, "Clock of Lithuania" - zero, non-fractional - two. What? Yes, there's a denial, then I can put to the vote for a reduced procedure. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, I hear everything, I hear everything. We took it as a foundation. Alexander Lavrinovich made an offer. I hear it all, my dear fellows, and I see it. I'll put everything to the vote right now, believe me, under the Rules. There are objections to MPs who consider it necessary to make an addition, so I will put to the vote in favour of having the committee prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] By the cancelled procedure, i.e. the first plenary week of the next session. Please vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are objections today. What they didn't vote on, I didn't get it. [[13:11:51]] For-12. Dear colleagues, you don't understand the offer. I'm telling you again, because there's a denial. If there is a denial of the MP's acceptance of it as a whole, I will put it to the vote to instruct the committee to redraft this law by a reduced procedure and to pass it on Tuesday for adoption in the final edition. Didn't you understand my offer? Oh, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again, I'm telling you. What's that? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, can you calm down? Please don't stop me from working. Since the MP denies it, I can't put it all together. Do you agree? Agreed. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to assign the committee to work on it for not 14 days, but 7 days, and to take it up for next Tuesday. Do you understand the offer? Take off the vote, please. Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u117	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to understand one thing in your proposal. Please tell me, when is the committee supposed to be sitting? In accordance with the Rules, the committee shall meet during the session. You're closing the session today. And you'll only open on Tuesday. So no sooner than Tuesday, the committee can gather.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee should work at all, including today. It's an emergency session today. And if we show such virtue, let me give it to you. One minute, I'll show you how the committees work. Pay's good for everyone. So let's not. Once again, I come out of the fact that there cannot be a proposal for the adoption of a law in general, since there is a denial of the national MPs. That's why I'm voting on the proposal -- commissioning the committee to prepare it for the second reading on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:14:15]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear national deputies, by factions, please. Factions: Region Party 170, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 0, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense 25, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 2. Shall I put it to the vote? Do you want to go back? About the return, please. Don't yell, please. [[13:15:04]] For 216 The decision is not taken. All of it. It's being announced. Calm down, please, calm down. It's being announced. It's being announced. I appreciate the sense of humor, except it's out of place, that's all. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the non-permission of voter will]] Registration number 5509. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valerius Pisarenko. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny. Pisarenko will be here? Come here, I can't hear you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it a reduced procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u119	Let's put it to a brief vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u120	So you've figured it out, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u121	Here we go. Dear colleagues! Let's calm down and start working on the next law. Dear colleagues! Our proposal does not exist on the first day and we want to note that the changes to the Elections Act were proposed for us before the first round of elections. And as practice has shown, our proposal has really been confirmed by the steps we have seen in the elections. We would like to point out that in our law we propose to improve the voting system at home and to prohibit it on election day from making baseless lists of citizens without sound grounds. What we're talking about in the first question, voting at home, today Ukrainian citizens have the right to vote at home, and after the adoption of this law, they will also have that right. About 750,000 of our citizens have already registered in the voter register as those who will necessarily vote at home. These are citizens who don't have to apply or submit the necessary supporting documents. Any other citizen who is not able to come to the polling station today also has the right to make an application. But to this claim there is a need to add appropriate hospital help, and this position has been confirmed by the final decision of the court, which has gained legal power and is not to be charged. That's why today, part of the political process and one of the presidential candidates are completely denying the court's rulings. Considering that they are supposedly accepted, not when everyone is working, but when someone is resting, we have insisted today that we need to improve the legislative level and put a stop to this issue. We propose that, as in all Ukrainian legislation, as in all cases that are foreseen, when a person is sick, when he is unable to come to work, or elsewhere, state institutions, or perform other functions, he bring with him an appropriate document that confirms that he is ill. It's either a list of incapacity, or an outpatient card, or hospital help, or a document that actually confirms your inability to come to the polling station. Today it is practical to apply this standard of confirmation by court rulings and is already being used in polling stations. Today, too, I want to remind you that failure to do so leads to criminal cases. I just want to point out once again that there are at least six thousand such violations that have been reported by the Ministry of Internal Affairs today that have been followed by the proper response of law enforcement authorities. What I'm saying is that the right position, the tough position, is now both with the Council of Europe and with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The relevant reports indicate that mobile voting poses a potential threat to the falsification of the results of the elections and that its organization needs tough conditions that make it impossible to produce any risk of falsification. If we want to see the real President of Ukraine on February 8th coming after the results of the national will, we need to improve procedures today. And one more thing. To date, making changes to the voter list is also a problem that we need to resolve. I ask the session room to address this question, not as a political one that, unfortunately, looked to this day, but as a professional and legal one. I ask the session room to support this bill. And vote it unanimously so that we don't have any talk about forging elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Questions for Valery Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u123	If you don't have one, don't write it down. Please put your name on the board. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u124	I would like to propose to the speaker without asking, after all, that we be able to vote, because we have a very important decision ahead of us. But in fact, I think that if we don't now support these changes to electoral legislation, we really won't get a fair outcome in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u125	Dear Andrey Vasilovich! I fully agree with your offer without asking. But I don't ask them, I answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u126	National MP. Dear colleagues! Here the questions come from the representatives of the Tymoshenko Block, if you're filming -- then tell me what you're shooting -- we'll bet that's it. I'm a last name. Olga Bodnar will you ask questions? [[B in m in s a l in]] But I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to Olga Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u127	I believe that the bill must be adopted and that it will prevent counterfeiting. Question to the author, do you feel the same way I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u128	Thank you. You know, I completely agree with you, I fully agree that it needs to be supported, like your honorary committee, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u129	Sergey Soboljev faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u130	I refuse to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u131	Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u132	I refuse to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u133	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u134	I ask you to support the faction of the Supreme Council this bill, the question I will not ask, because I understand everything I have to accept it, this bill will reduce the possibility of falsifying the Party of Regions elections and will do everything possible to ensure that the elections go democratically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin. I support your initiative to prevent forgeries from voting, but I wanted to ask you, about your second legislative proposal, what list of documents should be given, which would confirm the inability of the electorate to come to the voting room, there were speculations and twists of this moment. The fact that you're in a hospital where you say that you have bedding is a good reason? And don't you suppose there might be some kind of lift that might be in contravention of such a statement in this law? I also made changes to the law, but unfortunately they are placed in the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u137	Thank you. You know, of course, we can predict that there are problems. And what's more, I really don't understand when I sometimes hear comments that these texts don't even confirm that a person is sick or unable to come to the polling station. At this point, we worked closely with the Ministry of Health and identified an exclusive list of documents that today provide legal confirmation that a person cannot appear at the polling station. So this is where we worked with professionals, and I think we need to tend to that kind of thinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u138	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u139	I'd like to point out that this law has been discussed for so long and we're trying to put it into the agenda, that we basically all understand it, and let's stop the discussion and vote by supporting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u140	Ivan Alexanderovich Rabbit, microphone, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u141	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter, what has happened over the past six months that you have become such a bright supporter of the changes to this law right in the area of voting at home, and in the form of lists? I'll remind you that back in July, when you were together, that's, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Party of Regions adopted this law for two, you were warned and there were adjustments that are actually identical to your amendment. In particular, for example, Knazevitch, then my amendments were, then you didn't accept them. In December it was once again possible to amend the bill, and you didn't accept it, and more than that, your member of the Javorovsky delegation was beaten here, you might say, over the authors of these amendments. What, then, has happened to you today that you think these changes should be made? Don't you understand that during the election you can't change that you can't change the rules during the game? I think we can accept this one today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u142	Allow me to complete my opinion, please, Your Honor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u143	Didn't you hear? Didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u144	Well, briefly, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, briefly state your point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u145	briefly my position is that what happened is that Yulia Tymoshenko's Block has woken up and wants to make these changes? When this was possible in July, they and the Party of the Regions were rejected from the threshold. When, in December, when I was making these amendments, they weren't just rejecting them, they were struggling with these amendments here, which is exactly what happened, and how they feel about what we're being asked to change today, change the rules of the game during the game itself. So if they don't think it's better for them to vote in the first reading of this bill today, and eventually to make a paper that will solve the problem not just for the sick, not just for the sick, but for the issues of counterfeiting, but for the rural issue, because we have areas where there are a few villages and people in need can't get to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u147	What do you think's going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleague, you know, first of all, I don't take this position, for example, I take the position that when our colleagues worked with you on this bill, and I know that they put a lot of effort into it, and then it was supported by most of the hall, the constitutional majority, we need to respect it as an already active law. It's about when we're dealing with it. I'll tell you when we're done. We were involved when, contrary to the law, the Central Electoral Commission explained how to vote in the polling station. [[in violation of the law]] And then I, from this point on, the candidate for President Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, got a few court rulings on the fact that it was an illegal decision. Since then, we have decided that we need to make changes to the legislation that needs to be put to the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the questions are closed. Please take the position of the committee, Sergey Podgorny. The position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, unlike the previous bill, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building considered this bill at its meeting on 13 January and suggested that it be supported as a whole. This bill is really necessary, this bill, which really makes its position impossible for some forgery, especially forgeries at home. I'm just going to say two digits again. In order to vote at home, it takes at least 15 minutes to get from the station to the electorate, to enter, to form everything, and to return to another electorate. In 10 hours, 40 voters can pass. We have cases where 150 voters, 200 voters, are going around, it's not technically possible to do this on just one occasion when the DKD members themselves vote for those who are sick. So I propose to support this bill from the committee and to vote for it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u151	The question is to a coconspirator? None. Dear National Deputies! If anyone insists on speaking from the faction, from the national MPs, please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechtov, Olga Bodnar and from the faction, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechtov. Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Those voters, including the temporary inability to move, are now the subject of such a heated debate in this room. Calm down, this bill won't pass. It's a bill that's stupid and pretentious. The bill was denied by a vote on the first round, and you also voted in 2006 and 2007. I have the activity data on you, the voters who are having a hard time moving this year, for the first round. Most voted at home in those regions that traditionally supported Yulia Timoshenko. Eight per cent, almost nine in the Chernigov region, in the Poltav region – almost eight per cent, almost seven in Sumsko and Ternopolska. But the Party of the Regions will never question your choice. So you decided, so you decided to vote at home, and we respect your right. We don't know what kind of medical records they want from you. From grandmothers, who are 90 years old, who need to be given all the medical encyclopaedia. From women at the end of pregnancy, from those who have not yet been able to close the ballot. We do not know what they desire except one. They want to humiliate you. The rumor of how many people were voting on the house had to pass. Walking through like a cold shower, because in 2006 and 2007, and in 2010, there were no more than 4 per cent of the votes on the house, and life itself, the facts confirm that. But every day we hear about some 15, 20, 30, and every day we hear those humiliating sayings both to us and to our constituents. I want to remind those who call themselves Democrats. House voting is approved by the Venice Commission, which writes that not only should it be, but additional ballot papers should be issued, since a person who feels unwell can ruin a ballot by accident, but must be given the right to vote in a mandatory manner. But of course you do. Yeah. Therefore, the bill, which deals with the impossibility of including a voter in the vote list, will not be passed. Life itself and the electorates confirmed otherwise. And now I want to say what's really going to happen. And there are meetings in the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, and instead of these bills, they write other orders on this issue, including. Item 9 extracts from the meeting of the Donate District Headquarters, Yulia Timoshenko. “Go to the police, to the prosecutor's office with a statement that you did not vote. The person who voted at his poll or at home must write a statement to the Public Prosecutor's Office that he did not vote and his signature was forged. We will provide you with access to the media and an interview on forging sites.” That's what people who lose elections really want. This has nothing to do with good intentions or the possibility of movement of which is limited or with electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u153	Olga Bodnar, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The next one will be from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" by the National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u154	Thank you. Talking about someone winning or losing the election is still premature. In this case, all I can say is that the election race is going on. I want to encourage everyone in the room to think very carefully about what the price of that is, let's say, reluctant to vote in favour of this bill you have to put on your conscience. I want to say that those citizens who have always voted at home because they're not able to come to the polling station, they're also listed on the voters' lists as unable to move. They don't even have to write a statement or give any help because they're already listed as such and they're constantly going and going. And don't worry, honourable citizens, that somehow your rights will be violated if you really can't come to the polls. Our bloc is primarily interested in the honest and sincere expression of citizens. I just want to say that the dead, who are already, the kingdom of heaven, not the elections that have long been on earth, have not written statements. And that's why this law is going to make it impossible to falsify people who didn't write those statements. So I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u155	Blackwolf Alexander Vilenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u156	Dear friends, I thank all those who have not supported the previous bill. As for this bill, we've discussed it a long time ago, and everyone knows the essence of it. His main task is to prevent forgeries in the elections. So I'm not going to get a lot of agitation for him, and I'm going to say that voting at home has always been used in Ukrainian practice as a means of counterfeiting, so it had to be regulated. The same is true of carousel, which is constantly launched on the day of the vote from the district to the district. And that would have to be normalized, that's what this law is about. The one who votes in favour of this law is the one who stands for fair elections, the one against it, for counterfeiting, is the only conclusion. So I invite you to vote for him and move on to the next question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u157	Gatekeeper Igor Borisovich. I won't. Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich. None. Savechenko Igor Vasilovich. None. Osika Sergey Grigorovich. None. Mr. Ulyana Mikolayevna. None. Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who signed up for the speech have made their appearance. Alexander Lavrinovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! I'd like to say a few words about this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u160	And there's nowhere for us to sign up, unfortunately. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm begging you! Dear National Deputies! When the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council speak, either Tomenko or Lavrinovich, you are all calm. As soon as you reminded me that there are no people in the session room, now you've listed the entire list -- neither is there, so calm down, please, and let's work. I'm just begging you. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! This bill can normally be considered today with a view to the future, and it can be said that maybe in five years in the country, there will be a register of voters to which there will be no questions, and we will have absolute accuracy in the calculation of all citizens who have the right to vote. I think there's no one in this room who doubts that there is no such register in Ukraine today, and so trying to lose voter day to clarify voter lists today seems just like electoral technology. Moreover, the first vote, which took place on January 17, showed what picture was with the status of the lists and how many thousands of details had been made. Now we want to ban the re-voting if someone comes and sees that his last name is wrong or that his house is not on the list? The second aspect is generally questionable, because when it comes to voting outside the area, I think legally I don't even want to have this discussion right now, because. Well, as it says, it is possible to write just one sentence: “prohibit citizens of Ukraine who do not have the opportunity to come to the polling station to vote in elections”. Well, if I put it briefly, it's written. I don't think we want this, that we want to deprive citizens of Ukraine, of elderly people or of sick people who can't come to the polling station, of their constitutional rights. Therefore, this bill does not deserve the support of today absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. Nobody insists? No, it's not. Now, I'm putting a motion to the vote -- pay attention! on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on the non-permission of voter will]] [[Registration number 5509]] [[13:39:59]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 147, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 41, Communist faction – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, "Currency" – 2. I'm voting on my first reading again. May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the return vote for the re-reading of the bill registration number 5509. [[13:40:41]] For-191 The decision is not taken. What are some other suggestions? The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. [[Well, if you'll excuse me.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, we are now under way. I have this request: we continue the morning session until the last question is closed and the next session closed. Is there no objection? It is announced for consideration of the drafts of the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5354]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko. Please. Sergey Grigorovitch, why don't you put it to the vote right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u163	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, before your consideration is presented the Supreme Council's Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of the Legality of Transfer to the Rent of the Janukovich Government Residence “Mježirja”. Why did this question arise? I can tell you that if someone is not afraid of anything, he does not hesitate to ask questions. He wants to get to the truth, all the media are involved. Parliamentary control of this resonance must be carried out. I could say that's a question of two ingredients. The moral component here is not to be formed by any temporary commission of inquiry, the moral side is that none of the higher-class officials has the right to take to the state when he resigns from his office, neither the pen nor the chair, nor anything else, especially the residence in so many hectares of land and premises that have historical value. So if it was a legitimate defense -- please, parliamentary control, judicial decisions, to prove your, indeed, truth that there's nothing to it. But once again, there is a moral side to this question. What will we say when the next president comes to power and takes away the Marian Palace or the house with the chimeras under his residence? Then we're going to say that the privatization process in our country has been completed? As for the people, as applied for, to participate in this commission, today, two political forces have applied for membership in this commission, namely, the national deputies from the party BUT Shiyanov, Bondarenko and Mishchenko, from the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", although they said they were not, although there is a letter from December 20, 2009 concerning the delegation of two national deputies to this committee, Ariyev Vladimir Igorvich, the deputy head of this commission and the Lukyan Catherine Eugenia. Thus, the decree of the Supreme Council is handed down to the people’s deputies. We propose to vote in favour of this Order, the head of this commission to choose Shiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich, the deputy – Arjevo Vladimir Igorevich, all others will be on the rights of membership in this commission. So not one faction initiates this, but two factions. I'm sure if I want it to be, you know, objective and not lopsided, I don't understand other factions, why they don't put their representatives on this committee. Do you understand? For me personally, this is an untrue step, so that even to objectively address this committee created by the coalition that raises these questions must be made by the faction of the Party of the Regions to really watch how this commission works. So at the last minute, I think you can put your representatives before the vote and vote. So let's draw a dot and show society that we do have officials living by law, not by other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear national deputies, regarding the draft decree itself. Here in this project, which is given out, is the name of the national deputy Yuri Litvina. He made that statement. I'll read it. “I am informed that neither I nor the faction agreed to include me in the commission of inquiry. I think it's a fake." That's why it's important, dear colleagues. And the second. I'm going to put a draft to the vote. Please excuse me, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, this is a matter of concern to our committee. And I find it strange to listen to those statements from this rostrum. If we are talking about morality and morality, we should say that, in parallel with this interim commission, it was registered and considered or should have been considered on a committee, a commission that says that Timoshenko stole from the State through a billion-dollar gas scheme. When the Committee began its consideration of these issues when they began. You're not yelling. What are you yelling at? If you're yelling, you're wrong, guys. When the Committee began its consideration of these issues, the members of the Committee came to their attention in an objective manner and said that those who brought these issues up were more politically guided. Let us therefore return to the matter if the desire of those who have submitted them remains, so that we will consider and make a decision. [[The political struggle of the elections will take place]] This is the case with regard to morality and politics. Now, with regard to compliance with legal, regulatory and everything else. Vladimir Mikhailovich! This is the paper that was submitted to the committee, it's not a document, it's a wish or it's one person's wish to create this commission. Because no normative, regulatory norm has been implemented here, which must be implemented when the document is created. And when my distinguished colleague comes out and proposes to vote for it, let us respect ourselves at least. At least let's respect ourselves. I understand that you have nothing to say about your work, you can't say anything, the state has led to something that Timoshenko has done today. That's why you think different things. The Committee has not considered the decision, no decision on the matter, no paper prepared that does not comply with the regulatory rules, draw conclusions yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-28-m0.u166	Dear National Deputies! I will now put to the vote the draft ruling in view of the fact that this extraordinary session and the initiators have raised the questions that they consider necessary, but I immediately believe that it is necessary to stress. If this decision is adopted, it will be signed and published only when all the candidates are submitted, as required by the project you have proposed. I'd like to ask that there's no difference in that. With this in mind, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to be adopted as a decree, taking into account just what I have to say, namely, that when candidates are put in place and they will be signed by factions' leaders, once again, in an established order, and 11 people will be built, as required in the decree, then they will see the world. [[Registration number 5354]] Please. [[13:49:49]] For-198 Decision taken. Now to the leaders of the MP factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that you present your nominations in an orderly manner. Dear national deputies, by factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 148, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 48, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 0, non-fractional – 2. I declare the sixth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies! Monday at 11 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and Tuesday there will be another session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
