ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:01:34]] There are 423 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Let's start with a nice one. Today, Julia Sergiyevna Kovalevska celebrates another birthday, let me welcome her. [[Applause]] And wish for at least another 20 years to meet him in the walls of Parliament, at least. Yes, let me make an announcement. Honourable National MPs, October 7-10 in Kiev there is an international colloquium on the theme “Migration and integration in Europe”. This action is being carried out within the framework of a meeting of the European Association of Former Members of Parliaments of the States participating in the Council of Europe and the European Union, which is a member of the National Parliament of Ukraine, a parliamentary club “Parliament”. 80 delegates from former national parliaments from 19 European countries participate in the association. I would like to welcome our colleagues, members of the European Association, who are now in the session room of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council at the plenary on October 7. Only four issues of order have been considered, but they are extremely important. Follow him. As a result, two laws and four decrees were passed. In the first reading, a draft of the Tax Code was adopted, and one bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have an hour from 10 to 11 a.m. of questions to the Government on Friday. I have to say that it will still remain with us, this hour of questions to the government, because in that Cabinet Act that we adopted yesterday, the same form of work of the Supreme Council with the government remains. Representatives of the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” made proposals during the “hour of questions to the Government” to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine, the budgetary process and the consequences of the adoption of the Tax Code. Dear colleagues, it was an offer to hear from Deputy Prime Minister Tihypak on this matter, but since the Deputy Prime Minister is on his way to the United States, the representatives of the seven ministries and authorities will answer these questions. We'll do it. It's necessary for those who want to hear the answers. I repeat: It is necessary for those who want to hear the answers! It doesn't matter which member of the government is going to answer, you're going to hear your questions. That's why we're going to build the work in this way: the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Housing and Utilities, we're going to give you 10 minutes to answer the questions. We didn't, I'll explain again. If you don't want to get out of the session room, that's your business. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's your business if you don't want it. I will do as the Rules require. I'm making a note of Cosemiakin for breaking the Rules. He's being rude. Please, let's work this way: The jury and Hivritch will have 10 minutes to answer the questions, the rest of them eight minutes, and so we'll put ourselves in the established Rules. Please, Vicar Mikola Volodymyrovich, Minister of Agrarian Politics, 10 minutes. Dear colleagues, once again, let me explain what we are talking about: THE BUIT Faction wanted to hear Tihypak. First of all, I could take advantage of the fact that the rules of the Constitution no longer provide for opposition factions to ask questions. But let me explain, the vice-premier is in a foreign deployment. We cannot break the “hour of questions to the Government”. So there came people who were competent and would ask questions that you had asked in advance. I don't see anything here. On the following Friday, we invite Tihyp, if that is the case. What's so strange about you? Yes, please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, do you have any written questions? If so, please start answering written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u2	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Questions. “ Why does the government not take effective measures to support agriculture? Your role in this, will there be responsibility?" [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u3	Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u4	I'll tell you this: for today, from the first days of government work, attention to the agrarian sector has been very special and important. And for us today, it is clear to ourselves that all the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry are primarily aimed at ensuring the country's food security. The next step is, of course, the reform of the agri-industrial complex initiated by the President and the government. And we've taken quite a few steps in this direction. First, we have three positions, three blocks of agri-industrial reform. The first is a production block that envisions the reform and development of vegetation. Because vegetation today is the very basic component of export potential and provides food security, pig farming, because the pork sector, the pig meat consumption for us are, we are imported, and the development of pork farming for our country is a specific agricultural sector. And it's a very important sector, and it's dynamics, and it's a huge opportunity for us to grow in quantity. And of course, one of the complex sectors is dairy. A branch that is now in some way depressed, but we are obliged as a government, and the ministry, to pay attention to the development of dairy farming. Despite the fact that dairy is in such a depressive state, 15 percent of agricultural exports are made up of milk and milk products. And we understand that in order to ensure the level of consumption of milk and milk products within the country of our Ukrainian consumer and to have export potential, the reform of this sector will take place next year. And the important question, of course, is, however we don't want to, but we need to make decisions about reform or, if we can say so, adapt to the present of our Ukrainian science and education. To this day, Ukrainian agrarian science has remained on the sidelines. And we understand clearly that the tasks that we are facing in the development of the agricultural sector and the tasks and the hopes that the world consumer market has before us, we realize that without our agrarian education and without our agrarian science, we will not be able to develop. And today, there is a procedure for reforming the unification of agricultural science and agrarian education in order to ensure that the achievements that we have and that we plan to work for the benefit of our agricultural sector. And the important question, of course, is that student agrarians are involved in scientific work, scientists are involved and working in the direction that the sector needs. So 80 percent of the government's money is going to focus on applied science in the agricultural sector and 20 percent on fundamental science. An important question, and we've come to this, is to do these tasks, and given that today's executive branch of government of the agrarian sector doesn't exactly meet the realities and requirements that are and dictated by the market economy, we've started reforming the executive branch of power. And the obligation of the executive branch of power will normally be to ensure the potential production of the agrarian sector in order to ensure the control of the harvests, by fertility, the circulation of agricultural land and, of course, to ensure food security, to carry out those calculated forecasting orders for Ukrainian consumers and, above all, to ensure that our agricultural sector has a high export potential, to ensure that our agricultural production is able to provide the expertise of our agricultural products. And to that end, of course, we are working out a procedure for reforming the executive branch. And of course, we realize that if we don't adjust the budget for the next few years to perform these tasks, you and I will not be able to perform the tasks and commitments we make to the agricultural sector. The budget is proposed for the following year to redistribute a large part of the budget, i.e. 50 percent of the budget allocated to the agricultural sector, on a reverse basis. What I mean is, first of all, agrarian lysis. We understand that in order to ensure the development of vegetation, the grain industry, we are obliged to make technical restocking of grain harvesting techniques and, of course, seedlings for a period of 3 to 5 years. Why? Because it's estimated by scientists and experts not only our nationals, but also by experts at the world level, we see that in the absence of agricultural harvesting techniques and efficient plants, we lose about 7 million tons of grain even in these production volumes. And the next step. Of course, it's a reverse-based agrarian financial fund that will allow us, first of all, to spend our loans, second of all, to provide financial guarantees to farmers so that we can develop properly and dynamically, and so that the cost of agricultural products at the expense of loans does not increase. These two articles will normally be backward and will work effectively. Because they are working and being tested in many countries, including the countries of the European community, and countries that have recently joined the European Union. By the way, I want to say that in this current year, we were able to stimulate the farmers in the spring with regard to sugar beet crops. And today, regardless of any abnormal climate conditions, we've increased the amount of sugar beet seed almost twice. And today we're going to have 100 percent domestic supply, and of course 200 to 300,000 tons of sugar for expert purposes. Now, in the framework of the Intergovernmental Agreements with the Russian Federation, we are concluding negotiations that after the Russian Federation has held its sugar balance, the issue of the possibility of removing import duties in relation to sugar in the Russian Federation will be considered. It's important to us, because in the sugar industry, it's the key to providing expertise. Of course, this year we have started a new order that provides for compensation for up to 50 percent of farm, pig farms, and poultry factories in order to stimulate the development of commercial production.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u5	Yeah, just give me a minute and get it over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u6	The meat industry. And the important question is, so far, we've started funding the percentage of loans in recent years, 2008-2009 and the current year 2010. To this end, enough funds have been allocated, and today a billion dollars have been allocated to offset the interest of loans, 800 million dollars have been allocated to the core funds, and in addition, the Prime Minister's mandate is to consider further the allocation of two billion dollars for the agrarian sector from the stabilisation fund. I am confident that these steps will enable the government to stimulate the development of the agricultural sector in the coming years. And our main task is that we can channel the budget so that every budget bracelet allocated to support the agricultural sector is a motivation for investing in our industry. And today, taking into account the world’s agricultural market situation and taking into account the food situation and what the World Bank has announced today, what it is planning to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u7	Mikola Volodymyrovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u8	I believe that the role of our country's agricultural sector will be important and attractive to investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Have a seat. But I'd like you, Mr. Secretary, to do something different right now. Now we're going to do something different. We're going to be asking questions from national MPs during the time they're doing, and they're going to be answering for two minutes, because we can talk about progress in the field for hours. Please, Hivrich Yuri Yegorovich is Minister for Housing and Utilities. Ten minutes. Please sign up for the question. Questions from all deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u10	Honorable deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u11	Please wait, Yuri Yegorovich. You will answer the questions of the national MPs. Please, Stanislaw Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u12	Actually, Adam Ivanovich, I was preparing to ask the previous minister a question, so I'm taking my question off.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u13	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u14	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, you know, I have the same problem: I thought it was a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Adam Ivanovich, we all signed up, thought we'd ask the minister of agriculture questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u15	I'm very curious that you have no questions for the Minister of Housing. Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u16	Dear Yuri Egorović, be kind, in a brief manner: in what state did you adopt the industry; what has been done in this time period? And the second question. When will it be warm not only in hospitals, kindergartens, but also in homes, after the 15th or maybe earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u17	First of all, we really didn't have a very good industry. First. The first is financial matters. I'll just say one digit. On 1 January, we had $120 million in wages. Today it's 80. And so on. After the heat gun. On the trigger, I answer specifically in Ukrainian. Please, come on, put it in Russian. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I mean, we ended up on October 1st preparing for the winter. In the face of severe cooling, it was decided that some cities of October 4 would start a heating season. In time, it is the city of Kiev, the city of Donetsk, the city of Dnipropetrovsk. On October 5, the government accepted our commission after the start of the heating season. And literally yesterday, a decision has already been made on the supply of gas to our boilers and contracts. What I'm saying is, this morning, this morning, this morning, the budget area is the first, we're starting up the budget area, 80 percent fully running. Housing is 48-50 percent, housing is running. 78 percent of the weeds work. Yeah, they're, uh, they're just picking up traffic today. Because there's a technical cycle that we need to warm up, get into mode, and start giving utility heat. The challenge is to finish the 11th number, finish the heat in socio-cultural objects and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u18	Yes, please, Danilenko, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u19	Adam Ivanovich, I also applied for a question to Mikli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u20	Where have you been before? Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u21	Please give the floor to colleague Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u22	Vladimir Bondarenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u23	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'd like to address you, Mr. Secretary, with two brief questions. First. Give me just two digits. At the beginning of this financial year, Ukraine budgeted one figure for your ministry. After some sequestration, when the government of Azarov cancelled virtually a whole series of programs in Ukraine, including funding for very important directions. What is the financing of the field? That's the first question. And the second question. What steps, if not taken, are at least outlined in the Minjitlokomongosp system for energy conservation, new technologies for services? Because today we're mostly heating up the atmosphere, that's space, instead of burning houses. Please give an answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u24	First, according to the budget that you approved in May, we had 1.1 billion dollars, then after the secester -- 600 million dollars from the Reform and Drinking Water Program were taken off, we had 500 million left. So today we've got another 40 million dollars -- Lugansk and Crimea on the water -- we have 540 million dollars today. We've already given up advances and we've paid off debts in the past 120 million years and we're still working on this issue. The second question. What is energy conservation? We have 12 areas approved today for the technical re-arrangement program, now I'm working on eight more areas. This program provides only energy saving. And on the basis of this program, we've created a list of objects, we have 152 million this year under the reform program, and 203 million under the energy conservation programme is a state programme for 10-15 years. [[List of objects]] Today, we do not take into account those objects that have been occupied for more than four years, we take only bistro-accumulated projects, these are boiler replacements, boiler closures, the installation of more economical burners, and further heat-recyclers. That's the only thing we're working on today. Sadly, we do not take heat or water or heat. We have the energy saving first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u25	Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u26	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u27	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” The budget cuts funding for Drinking Water. You are well aware that the vast majority of the population in Ukraine do not have access to water that can be called drinking water. What are you going to do to effectively improve the situation of access to drinking water? Because you know it's not just a matter of the HQ, it's a matter of national health.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u28	Well, first of all, we're in the process of developing and amending the Drinking Water Act. So here's the main question we have today. 260 cities today receive water that does not match the quality of the new San Nipu, and 106 of the population will receive water on schedule. It's even worse than giving it all the time. What are we doing today? You know, the drinking water that came into one of the President's national programs. Today, we have developed a program for the installation of cleaning facilities in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, as well as group cleaning facilities in micro-regions that will clean up the water, and this water will be consumed by the population. Now we have only 11 million in this year's program, three districts in Crimea. And for the following year, we already have an agreement and are included in the program about 400 million on this issue. The quality of drinking water is the main question, I agree with you, for the life of our population.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u29	Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u30	I have this kind of question. Please tell me, does your ministry influence the setting of energy prices? And what's the motivation -- as a deputy to me -- what's the motivation for setting these standards for gas consumption, electricity, after which the price goes up by eleven times? Tell me, now there's going to be a real estate tax paid by a man -- and an even higher price for gas, for electricity. She eats more -- she pays more. Why this allowance? How can this be explained? In what state are there such impostors? And why isn't there a reduction in the price of energy and gas at night, let's say?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u31	Well, unfortunately, I want to say that today the energy and gas issues -- they don't apply to housing. It's a matter of the Ministry of Energy, and they are today setting the price for gas consumption, not the price, but the gas consumption rate, and the energy issue. We have this water in the residential farm today, it's warm. Normatives are really established here. In the water, you know, if there is no counter, the local authority sets standards for self - control on the spot. In each city today, water consumption varies according to what opportunities there are today in the provision of this utility. Nighttime electricity consumption. We have an opportunity today, and I'm going to say that utilities today are very active in night electricity, because it's cheaper today, it's 33 percent of daily electricity and electricity during peaks. So today we're working on water canals, we've installed heat meters, and we're using night power. In the future -- I'm not going to say, this question will be answered by the Ministry of Energy, which will give more, more clarity on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u32	Yes, thank you, Yuri Yegorovich. Let's thank the minister for answering questions he didn't know you were going to ask. And, you see, everything's fine and it's good that we've heard the Minister's opinion. Yes, please, I would like to ask Tetjan Ivanovna Yefimenko, Deputy Minister of Finance, please. While Tetjana Ivanovna is coming, sign up for the question. Point to the board, there is, please, Sergey Gordijenko, your questions, Tetjana Ivanovna will hear while you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u33	Dear Tetian Ivanovna while you're going to the rostrum. Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I have a question for you and the Ministry of Economics. We, in the state, have Blind Associations, you know, and other societies where people with disabilities work, and it's not easy to live at this time, to work because they're not competitive in the labor market. And generally, these enterprises need to be modernized, and that's where it needs to be allocated. And I would like to ask that companies in the Poltaelectric region, such as Piratińsk, Poltavaelectorkontakt, and so on, in the formation of the budget, these enterprises are allocated some targeted costs for modernization. I'm asking if that's in the plan, to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u34	The Ministry of Finance supports social rehabilitation programmes for people with disabilities, the Ministry of Finance works very hard with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to help address specific problems. So your question, I think, is very important, very right and will be considered in the second edition of the 2011 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u35	Please, Bolura.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u36	Dear Tetian Ivanovna, and again the subject of the budget and the Tax Code. The deadlines for 2011 for the State Budget were long overdue. What's more, you're saying, you're saying that it's going to be shaped on the principles of the Tax Code that we don't have yet. We heard yesterday about the huge changes in the tax system. When, though, do you think there will be a budget, and what preparations are being made by budget executives, tax collectors, and tax payers to be ready for this work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u37	Thank you. I'll start at the end of your question. What is now being done to ensure that all workers working in the Ministry of Finance system and in the State Tax Administration system are ready. Today, the Ministry of Finance, along with the Tax Administration, has created a virtual university that will work on all programs that will have the main thing. major changes as a learning program, as a certification program for all employees working at the Ministry of Finance and the State Tax Administration. This is happening now, and special editions have already been published, special programs. And this work has already begun, and we invite you to participate in such teachings, and perhaps in certification, if you have such a desire. And as far as budget adoption is concerned, today we are working with the Ministry of Finance together with the State Tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u38	Garbage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u39	Garbage, a party of regions. Aunt Ivanovna, of course, we discussed the Ukrainian Tax Code yesterday, and I think it's a very important step that the Ministry of Finance has taken in the last 20 years. It's an essential document that basically lays down the basic rules of work, and for an entrepreneur, it's a basic document because they'll know what to do. Not as was the case with the adoption of the budget each year of taxes or other rules of the game. At the same time, according to the Code, the Ministry’s first reading supported a number of areas that are given priority or State support in the form of tax holidays. As you're counting, I don't know the statistics that it gives to the State budget, but this is the priority development of our state, and the agricultural sector is the leading sector that we can, in fact, take to the world market in order to get the right opportunities for an expert, the power of the state. Don't you count production.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u40	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. Fiscal mechanisms provide for tax support, this is liberation, this is tax vacations, as well as direct budget support for specific sectors. So in general, by supporting your proposal to stimulate the development of agricultural machinery, I think we need to consider which mechanism will be most effective. Whether it's tax incentives, or whether it's stimulus through the spending part of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u42	Yes, please, Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u43	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” At the moment, unfortunately, we must note that the Government and Minfin are the main violators of the law in Ukraine, at least the Budget Code, because, in accordance with the rules established by the Budget Code, we are not given the State Budget Act for the following year. The fantasy about the Tax Code that it will be adopted and based on it you can put in a new budget, I think as an expert, you're very well aware that it's almost impossible. What's more, we don't know when he's gonna be accepted, because everyone sees how underworked he is. And even if it is accepted, it is estimated that the Association of Local Self-Government has lost 2.2 billion local budgets. As you're actually going for a term that you might have by the end of the year after the adoption of the code, to make a balanced budget, if, on the one hand, you have a branch benefit, on the other hand, you're going to lose completely local self-government, and on the other hand, small entrepreneurs are just going to give up documents and tax payers in the country just won't. What's going to happen to the budget? What hole will the people of Ukraine have?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. I can assume that the scenario of budgetary developments will depend a lot on how we work with Parliament. So I think that we have enough time to consider for two weeks all the proposals that will come into the Tax Code, to implement these proposals, to consider the Tax Code and to adopt the budget. It's a probable scenario.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u45	Please, Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u46	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear Tetian Ivanovna! You are directly involved in the formation of the Tax Code and in this context I have a question to you, yesterday we voted in the first reading of the bill, I think we did the right thing in the first reading. Now, I've already signed an amendment to the second reading committee where the real estate issue is qualified in this way, on my part, and that's what all people support because they understand that it's the right thing to do. That if a real estate tax is already in place, it should be introduced into the housing area, and the first reading indicated the total area. And the total area, I was talking about yesterday, you've heard this very carefully, I've seen it, it's the locusts where people grow animals, chickens, ducks, it's the greenhouses by which people survive when the state can't provide the right conditions. You support it as an expert so that the real estate is on the residential area, not the total area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u47	I support it, but it's a matter of terminology, and we've been using the terminology that exists today in legislation. And in general, by supporting your proposal, I think we're going to work it out in terms of terminology.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u48	Thank you, Auntie Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. I invite you to the microphone and to prepare Muschinin, Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy, Makuh Vladimir Alexiyovich. Please sign up for the question. Please, 8 minutes Kenzier Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Jaroslav Kenzior, Party “For Ukraine!” The best socio-economic situation in Ukraine is characterized by more and more citizens' interventions to defend their rights. Just the day before yesterday, pensioners who had frozen without heat in the Victory sanatorium under Kiev had to block the movement on the route of the world. Although, as far as we know, the task of Vice-Prime Minister Clovis is to immediately start the connection, so long as millions of people are frozen. The government is waiting for you to cover all the major routes further, including, as it were, the arrival of the President and the Prime Minister to their personal hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. In this context, what I want to point out is that we actually have a very difficult gas supply situation, and this is primarily about the fact that we now have a significant amount of non-payments in the communal sphere. Municipal enterprises owed about 10 billion NAC “Naftogazu” dollars, and this is the kind of money we have to account for every month until the 7th with Russian “Gazprom” gas suppliers. So this is a matter that needs to be resolved. You have to in any way increase the level of payment discipline. And to that end, we will take the steps that legislation allows us to take. What about disconnection? So, of course, companies that. Hospitals, kindergartens, and other facilities of this type will be primarily supplied with gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u51	Yes, please, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u52	Garbage, Party of Regions. Tell me, please, how much I understand that gas and electricity is the same product as potatoes, or cars, or so on. And I have a question before that. completing a previous request, which was not to the Ministry of Education, but to the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as follows. Indeed, why companies are subject to a limit, such as gas, and electricity, is paid in advance. And then, if the company consumes more, discriminatory prices are applied because prices are much higher, and they are more marketable. Isn't that a violation of constitutional rights, and isn't that a violation, in general, of any norm, because it doesn't positive for enterprises that consume more electricity for production and production, and on the contrary, I understand that if an enterprise consumes more, it pays even more. And the businesses that suppliers of these products -- electricity and gas -- have to be interested. And there's probably more to the contrary: the price increase is the opposite.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. The problem is that we have first-class and second-class electricity consumers. And the price difference is pretty important -- about 15 or 20 copies. Consumers who get electricity in the first grade actually get it at a premium price. And the only conditions for the supply of electricity at the premium price are timely calculations. And that's the condition in contracts that are made to supply electricity. If an enterprise generates an electricity bill, it is automatically transferred to the second class of electricity supply according to the contracts. That's it. That is, there is a question of the performance of the contract of obligations on both sides.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u54	Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u55	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear reporter, you are obviously aware that the olenergo, which is now in private hands, may sometimes go down to the normal terror of its consumers. Well, in particular, I want to say that in the Carpathian region where the Carpathian Blanche is in the hands of the same person, or the same financial group that runs the largest mountain range, it does things that turn off all the little lifts on all bases on the weekends, thereby reflecting people's willingness to go there. This is the direct use of the scales of such an energy impact in a competitive fight against small competitors. The other one. In Kiev, without any warning, Kyivoblanergo, which also belongs to a private company, shuts down hospitals, temples without warning. I was on duty, and during the service, the power was turned off without warning for 20 minutes and held for a period or two. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u56	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u57	About yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u58	I'm the same to everyone today, Volodymyr. Please respond. Everybody gives it exactly a minute, and Smitsch is in exactly the same situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. I want to point out the following. If the disconnection of any objects is performed only in cases provided for by valid electricity contracts, no arbitrary cases of such disconnects are allowed. If there are such cases, I ask you to inform us, to send us a parliamentary request and in the shortest time, in these five days, which are foreseen by valid legislation in response to you, all decisions are necessary. To put an end to such acts, they will be accomplished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u60	Please, Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u61	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block. Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, three questions. If you don't mind, just for a little while. Why is the price of electricity for exports twice as low as the price of electricity for our consumer? The other one. Can you please tell me when, if there are negotiations, the changed formula is the price of gas that we have with Russia? I understand you're working on it. And finally the third question. Say, please, the so-called "harkow agreements," is it correct that we are recorded in a price drop of $100, a so-called national debt, if we are not able to withstand the presence of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine for 25 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u62	As to your questions. The first question you have is the price of electricity. So, as you know, we have an electricity price that forms like a wholesale market price, like an average price for electricity from different manufacturers. Today, according to intergovernmental agreements, a certain amount of electricity is supplied in Belarus, where the supply price is the wholesale market price minus the grant certificates. So we're lowering the price of grant certificates because this electricity isn't going to happen in Ukraine and it doesn't need proper subsidies. In principle, this is the only case we have today, is trade with Belarus. As for the price formula. Of course, price formulas are followed by constant negotiations. And if you know, Minister of Fuel and Energy Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u63	Have a seat. Mayor Vitaly Vadimovich, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Please sign up. Please, Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u64	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter! I have a question for you. There are two huge problems in the state. First. It is practically not a law on the status of children of war, and today the miserable children of war are forced to judge the state, disgrace themselves, and disgrace the state itself. Because by adopting laws, the state does not implement these provisions. The situation is absolutely similar to that of participants in the Chernobyl AES disaster, the largest technological catastrophe known to mankind. On behalf of the Government, as deputy minister, say and we ask, and we demand that the 2011 state budget take into account the full cost of providing these laws. Enough with the disgrace of the children of war and the extermination of the Chaes accident.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I want to say that this is really a very topical problem that the Ministry of Labour is facing today, and that we are trying to solve today. But you do realize that even these issues, because they're very expensive, very cost-effective for the budget, we have, by searching for possible financial resources in the state budget. I want to say that today the aid reform system that citizens are providing in the form of social support is being implemented in this regard. That is, the benefits not due directly to the country’s credit, but the benefits that come from paying for the incomes of the citizens are to be accounted for. In this regard, we believe that once we have adopted appropriate reforms in Ukraine that will take place in the near future, we will be able to save the money that has been distributed through various social programs today and to channel these funds to support the poorest, the poorest citizens, and the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u66	Please, Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u67	Garbage, Party of Regions. Please tell me that question. As we know, so many citizens in our country are in labor migration, so called labor migration. They work abroad both legally and legally. These are countries such as Russia, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, and others. How does the Ministry work in a defense plan to account for the Pension Fund and pension insurance, because some people work abroad for decades, then they come to Ukraine, and they have to get a pension. How this issue is being corrected with other countries, and what work is being done by the Ministry. So our citizens can have full protection in terms of their social protection and pension protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. You know that in every country where our citizens work today, there is also a pension system, and in accordance with this pension system, at a certain length of work in these countries, our citizens can also receive pension insurance from these countries. As far as our country is concerned, in this case we have agreements between countries, and in the presence of employment, given that we have a solidarity system today, we can guarantee such citizens only a minimum amount of pension payments, which is equal to the subsistence minimum for disabled persons. At the same time, there were times before, we were trying to resolve, legislatively, this issue of paying contributions by such citizens to the Pension Fund, that is, to make mechanisms that would allow today's citizens working outside the country to pay the corresponding contributions to the Pension Fund and to receive a pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u69	Yes, please, Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. My dear reporter, I would like to ask you, when will the end of Ukraine be the indexation of pensions, the increase in scholarships promised by President Yanukovic, in line with inflation, which has now exceeded 20 percent, and you know very well that the pension should have been so indexed. And I want to speak to the National Deputies, a colleague from the Party of the Regions. The funds of Deputy Butu for press freedom continue to be collected. You have just seen how even Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk sacrificed his 100 bracelets of blood. So I'd like the press to take care of the freedom, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u71	Turn off the microphone. Yes, please answer if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. I want to say that, in fact, today there are issues that need to be settled in the citizens’ monetary income index plan, as well as the related issue of pension payments. This year, we were only able to index pensions at the rate of the average monthly wage increase, 20 percent of the average monthly salary last year. This problem is the deficit of the pension fund, and you know it very well. And we are taking measures today to reduce the deficit of the pension fund. If we had a deficit in the pension fund in 2007, the deficit in the pension fund had already increased to nearly 31 billion in 2009, and that amounted to 26.6 billion dollars. So the first thing that we're trying to do today is to maintain the sustainability of the pension payments to citizens the size that is predicted today. This is our first priority. And as we address the balance of the pension fund's budget, we'll be dealing with all the other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u73	Please, Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u74	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. I actually have one proposal for your ministry and regional units of district, district, that is, where there are today those bodies that seem to be working on social protection, to develop a special information stand on which to list all the promises made by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine during the campaign. They're famous: that's a raise for families with children, that's primarily for low-income families -- that's the social program that was powerful during the campaign. And note that this is done. Regrettably, there will be nowhere to put the bird anywhere or for nothing, since no item in the program has been executed. But obviously today, when the President concentrates all power in his own hands, we think he's going to make his promises, because he's removed everyone else as unsavory: parliament, there, the ministries -- and he's going to do it. Make such a stand. How do you feel about this offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. I just want to say one thing. If you've been -- and you've probably been -- in the administrations of our local social protection agencies, you could see that all the walls of these offices are hung by programs that are now being implemented, social programs that are already being implemented. This means that we have a lot of social programs today, and our main task today, in front of the Ministry and in front of our administrations, is to provide citizens with information about the possibility of using active social protection for the population. It's a priority. With regard to the promises made by the government, I want to say that certain promises have already been made this year, including the implementation of social standards that were approved in 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's do this. I've got two representatives speaking today: both the Minister of Economy and the Head of the State Property Fund -- to give them the time that's left, because I see the mood and your desire for us to ask the Minister of the APC. So let's do this: let's thank the ministers and the heads of the foundation who understand the MPs, and ask Mikola Volodymyrovich once again for the rostrum. Please have 10 minutes to answer the questions. Please sign up. Yes, please, APC's greatest expert is Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u77	Oleg Lazko, indeed, Montenegro, which I care about, is an agricultural area and the question that I will ask, not just the people of Montenegro, but all the villagers in Ukraine. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I was driving in the car this morning, listening to your special talk about how much attention the government gives to the agro-industrial complex. After you've been delivered by Minister Hivrich, I'll tell you that the impression is heaven and earth. Hivrich -- specifically, you have one water, billions of promises, and so on. I work on the budget committee, yesterday we received a report from the State Treasury on the financing of programs, including the APC. Well, that's 10-15 percent of the APC funding. What billions are you talking about? Why are you deceiving the Supreme Council of Deputies, especially the peasant? Last night, a representative of the Tkachenko Company spoke, 50 percent of what was planned was just sown on September 25. And we have a sown company right up until September 25th. People don't have the ability to borrow on fuel-oil materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u78	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u79	I'd be happy to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u80	Baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, And I'm inviting you to the scientific board, the scientific and technical board. Because you have such a strict term for sowing the winter, the bright, and the pleasure of inviting you. But I will inform you that six million 300,000 tons have been sown today from the planned eight million 577 thousand hectares of winter. hectares. So 76 percent is already out, or let me tell you, 300,000 hectares more than last year. But -- I'm telling you -- we have to move away from this principle: sow at all costs. We're not going to break the terms, we're not going to. To then find out in the spring that the osmium is gone. Why are they gone? Because they're sown with a violation of the term. Why Is Fertility Low? Because they're sown with a fall break. The term "sun-field jobs," "nutrition disorders," is used in varieties that are not adopted in our country. That's the question. Do you understand? So we also have to approach everything in a balanced way on a scientific platform. And today, however it may be, we will use agrarian science and listen to it. And public funding, I'll tell you this, I told you that we started even new support for spending and loans, two "accounting rates", not the way it used to be, one wasn't financed. Secondly, 230 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u81	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u82	230 million dollars has been allocated to offset sugar beet sowing, what was promised in previous years and not one year is the second. And thirdly, today, I'm going to tell you that, practically, the general fund funded, the special fund, the order of approval, you know, when the Cabinet of Ministers adopted the budget and when the order was approved, the funds are coming out of the stable fund, the special fund is coming out, and the general fund is going to provide the funds for those in terms of, they're also allocated. And I said in my statement that there is now an opportunity to further allocate to the agrarian sector the cost of credit, the fertility of the soil, that is, for the purchase of fertilizer, an additional 2 billion dollars to the budget that is budgeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u83	Please, Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u84	Garbage, Party of Regions. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I have a question for you. Of course, the agrarian sector is a sector where the attention of the State should be extended for many years. I understand that way. It's not important to plant or grow, and it's important to collect and preserve and recycle and bring our population to the table. Please tell me, did the Ministry work, your ministry that you run, statistics on how much Ukraine loses grains for a timely or untimely harvest due to the lack of fuel-oil, technical security and so on? And what in this regard, if this is statistical data, is the Ministry doing or planning to do that in order not to do that, but to store it and then multiply the profits accordingly for the agricultural sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u85	Thank you, Gregory Eudemiovich. As I said in the first speech, the priority for the development of industries, the production sectors of the agricultural sector is, and you could say, number one, that's vegetation. In vegetation, of course, it's growing grains. But we understand clearly, and science confirms this, and analysts confirm that because of the lack of technical restocking with grain combines, we're losing about 3.5 million tons of grain even on these crops and on this crop yield, and millions of 2 we're losing because of the lack of quality technology to do so. And in total, we lose more than 6 million tons of grain because we don't have technical equipment, and we don't do the harvesting or the sowing work. And the government has clearly adopted the following year, it accepts the concept, it is now considering the concept, it will be adopted a technical resupply program by granting a state guarantee. We are now launching competitions for countries and manufacturers such as Russian, Belarusian, German, and the United States. So they can come to the competition with their ex-banks and make suggestions for the early lysing of this technique that I've been talking about. I'm confident that this three-and-a-half-year move will allow us to re-upsize the technical grain sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u86	Please, Lipina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u87	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word for the agreed question to a colleague from BUT Kravchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u88	Thank you. Vasil Kravchuk, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is the Party of the Fatherland". Mikola Volodymyrovich! Please tell us what subsidies were made in 2010 in agriculture and in the sugar beet sector, and almost no copies have been received from the producers, no bracelets. In 2010, the Agrarian Fund sold 1 million, 137, 000 tons of intact food grain, and only 330,000 tons. Who Will Take Responsibility? And the third question. Yesterday, quotas for grain exports were introduced, which will have a major impact on the reduction in the price of grain in the internal market. How will you make up for the difference in the value of agricultural products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Of course we'll start with a sugar beet. All orders are accepted, and 230 million dollars are available to compensate for a single hectare of sugar beet. An average of more than 650 feet [1 ha] per hectare. That's the first one. It's different. These funds are literally now starting to be allocated by the Ministry and we're going to distribute them. That's what it is about sugar beet sowing. As for the agrarian fund. You know what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u90	Talk to me, it's not for you, it's for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u91	You know that the Agrarian Fund is obliged to replace the grain purchased in previous years. That's the first one. Secondly, you know that the agrarian fund, after we've adopted the agrarian fund, is today marked by a shortage of 211,000 tons of grain. I say again, substitution, and secondly, I'll tell you, for today in the agrarian fund, 1 million 600,000 tons of grain is there to make it clear. The agrarian fund provides a minimum of 1 million 500 grains and the agrarian fund continues to buy grain, that's the first. The other one. By the way, I'm going to inform you that the Prime Minister's mandate is to start from January of the month, so that there are no such bountiful steps and there are no misunderstandings, now we're working on the completion of the procedure, to start the purchase of the forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u92	Thank you. Zarubinsky, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u93	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, as a member of the government, was obviously involved in the drafting of the Tax Code, in the draft Tax Code, in the provision of tax industries, which are of no doubt important, in terms of aviation construction, shipbuilding, and so on. On the other hand, as a minister of agrarian politics, you understand as a member of the government that these important industries never put Ukraine in fives or tens or twenties, nor in shipbuilding, nor in aviation, such realities unfortunately. And agrarian production, and agriculture is something that can make Ukraine exclusive in the world, in the world distribution of labor, because we can give real organic production. Please tell me what is provided in the draft Tax Code for Promoting the Agricultural Sector and Bringing the Ukrainian Agrarian System to the World? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u94	So let me put it this way: of course, the agrarian sector issue in the Tax Code was strategically important to us. And we stood up for all the positions that we could stand. First of all, we saved the only tax. Secondly, I think it's an important, important step that we've managed to keep the VAT exemption important, and that's about 11 billion dollars left in the farmers. And, of course, the question of expert crops and technical crops. You know what the suggestion is that there should be no abuse of traders to present VAT compensation is also a proposed scheme that enables and protects the manufacturer. So the incoming VAT is 20 percent, and from the first sale, 20 percent is compensated. What does this talk about? This tells us what we can do. We will have the opportunity to allow grain farmers, through the mergers of non-profit cooperatives, to become and to gain the skills of normal traders in our country. And that's also an important question. Likewise today, you know, we are discussing VAT as accumulating in dairy and meat processors. This is 2.5 billion dollars a year. My personal position is that if, in the agricultural sector, in the dairy and meat sectors, 2.5 billion dollars by leaving VAT in processing enterprises does not motivate the development of this sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u96	State support in this direction needs to be changed. And it is clear that we are now working on the principle and order of using those funds to motivate the development of commercial production, including the motivation for combining private producers of milk and meat into legal structures. Because you know, there are WTO requirements, there are EU requirements for the slaughter, conservation and quality of milk. If someone says that the quality of milk in the private sector is low, it is wrong. The quality of milk is low due to the lack of technology for cooking, transportation and storage. These steps will enable you to raise the percentage of productive milk and increase the number of commercial farms in meat and milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's thank Mikola Volodymyrovich for answering the questions you were interested in. [[Applause]] We also thank the other members of the government who participated in the “hour of questions” and hope that we will continue this good tradition on the following Friday. Dear colleagues, let's all join together, and welcome all the lawyers of Ukraine to Jurist Day. [[Applause]] What's more, we're the deepest source of their inspiration and work, because what we're creating with you, then they're commenting, improving, defending, denying and so on and so forth and so forth and so forth. So come on, I sincerely welcome the lawyers and those who are in the session hall and those who make the laws and those who execute them. And let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and according to a personal statement made, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Zubova Valentina Sergiyovich into the membership of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Don't speak, because I'm afraid your statements won't come. Allow me to make a statement of the MP's requests. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Arsenija Yatsenuk to the President of Ukraine on ensuring compliance with the Constitution by the President of Ukraine and holding the next election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 27 March 2011. A motion for support is put to the vote. Anyone who wants to go to the March elections, please vote. [[11:19:02]] For-53 It turns out they're desirable. 53 - Request not supported. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, “Clock Timoshenko” – 28: “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 25. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the prohibition of the use of the name and image of the President of Ukraine during the holding of the electoral campaign; although the decree was signed on September 16, 2010, the Party of Regions to this day grossly ignores the demands of its leader, and yellowish, embittered. Well, that's an estimate. I'm voting on a proposal to support the question. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:19:55]] For-80 Groups of people’s deputies to the President of Ukraine to prevent the destruction of the square at the corner of the 10th Street and Landscape Avenue in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, with the aim of preserving the country’s historical and cultural heritage. [[Sharov, Ephraim, and others. Total 5 deputies]] I'm voting on a proposal to support the question. Please vote. [[11:20:33]] For 226 Request supported. But that is not all. I'm voting on a motion to ask the President. Please vote. [[11:20:59]] For 269 Thank you for your request. The President's request is made. Once again, this is about the destruction of the square in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. I mean, it's not political. Igor Sharov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for the establishment of an Interstate Regional Organization for the Protection of Trade Marks. Sergey of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Prime Minister, Head of CEVC, to ensure the holding of the next election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 27 March 2011. Vassil Petovka to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place at the State Enterprise "Batov Group of Agricultural Products" of the State Committee of Ukraine from the State Material Reserve. Valentina Matvijeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, on the inappropriate response of the authorities to repeated appeals by residents of the village of the town type of the Chernigów region of Chernigiv region of Chernigiv region regarding the solution of acute socio-economic problems. Victoria Demionczuk to the Prime Minister for financing construction and installation works for the construction of the buildings "The Heat Supply System, the Nove Village in Kirovograd-Reconstruction" and "The Building of the School Building 15 on Kazanska Street, 13 in Kirovograd". Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of funds to repair the premises and the acquisition of additional medical equipment to accommodate the hospice for heavily ill war veterans in the district of Burin district of Suma. Vladimir Matvieva to the Prime Minister for the elimination of violations of the legislation protecting economic competition in the seaport services market and terminals in the Dnipro-Buzki Lymana. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister on the cynical intentions of power to reduce the number of Ukrainian classes in the schools of Donetsk, concealing this as a general optimisation of the education system and the economy of budgetary resources, and in fact the manifestations of anti-Ukrainian politics, when only Ukrainian classes are reduced. Edouard Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, State Committee of Land Resources, State Enterprise "Centre of State Land cadastre", The State Inspectorate for Land Use and Protection, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need for further consideration of the request of Alexander Klebov to clarify the issues concerning the activities of agribusiness in Talalai and the Serb region of Chernigiv. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Prime Minister for changes to the draft Ukrainian Tax Code, submitted by the Government on 21 September 2010, concerning wood products that are subject to deep processing. John Vernidubov to the Prime Minister on the careless consideration of parliamentary appeals regarding the granting of housing to a citizen of Kseniya Korkishenko, who has the status of an orphan child. Mikoli Potapczuka to the Prime Minister for the repayment of the debt for the work done with the reconstruction of the administrative building of the Shaka District Department of the Ministry of Interior in Volinsk. Mikoli Potapczuk to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the movement of trains No. 955/956 through Kovel Kamin-Kashirski, Kashir-Kovel and No. 823/824, by Lutsk-Kyiv, Kiev-Luck. Paul Movcan to the Prime Minister about the illegal eviction of the Museum of Theatre, Music and Cinematography of Ukraine from rented premises. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister on the need for a comprehensive state-wide solution to the problems of education workers in protecting their labour, socio-economic rights and interests which have been violated in the conversion of education staff in the region of Poltava. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide targeted state aid to the Pirate Training and Production Company of the Ukrainian Blind Association for the purchase of new equipment that will enable the maintenance of the enterprise and workplaces for the disabled. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister on the use of response measures regarding the non-derogation of land of state property through auctions, legality and justification of the adoption by the Defence and Other Lands Commission of decisions to establish and prepare for the sale of relevant land not used for purpose or no longer necessary for such use, to ensure the protection of land as the main national wealth of the Ukrainian people, to eco-balanced development of Ukraine and to prevent violations of the interests of citizens and the state. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the situation in the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve "Prejaslav" in connection with the illegal actions of the Director General of the Paul Longsiy Reserve. [[Tomenka, Mishchenka and others. Total 4 deputies]] Mikoli Tomenka and the All-Involved Borodin to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the underfunding of the gasification of the villages of Prochorovka and Pearce in the region of Cherka. Andrew Pavlovsky to the Head of the Chief Audit Office for the Inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine purchased cars at state expense. Andrew School to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the adoption of measures to prevent illegal demolition of buildings in the historic part of the city of Lviv. Valentina Matvieva to the Ministry of Health to assist the people of Novgorod-Several Chernigiv district of Oksani Peskhrov in the treatment of a seriously ill 2-year-old son. Boris Tarasyuk to the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of providing information on the reasons for his dismissal from the post of chief editor of the Broadcasting Company of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Miroslav Mamchak, whose name is associated with the formation of the Broadcasting Company, as an influential media asset in the city of Sevastopol and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, U.S. Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine, on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal made by Kiev’s resident Tamari Minajenko, who tragically lost her son in June of this year, under circumstances that remain unclear. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Ministry of Health regarding the unwarranted safety standards for diabetics with drugs approved by Ministry of Health Order No. 716 of August 25 of this year. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Justice to improve the mechanism for the protection of citizens’ rights by improving the enforcement procedure. Oleg Zarubinsky to the temporary duty of the Minister of Ukraine to deal with extraordinary situations regarding the ability to cope with the consequences of technological disasters in neighbouring states and to threaten the health of Ukrainian citizens and the country’s ecosystem. Oleg Tishchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the High Council of Justice, the Attorney-General for the examination of the actions of the Society's officials, with limited responsibility for the "Restaurant Sport" in the city of Brovary Kyivsky district, and the application by a college of judges of the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Commerce. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the non-replacement in student journals of mobile phone advertising and online entertainment portals that contain pornographic information and violent propaganda. Alexander Shepeleva to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health on the urgent use of measures to prevent the recurrence of infant deaths as a result of vaccination. Alexander Edina to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation by the head of Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk Intercity Bureau of Technical Inventory and Registration of Property Objects by Taisia Timothy. Alexander Shepelev to the Minister of Agriculture’s policy of taking steps to assist agrarians in conducting the sowing company. Roman Zabzaluk to the head of the State Committee on Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining in relation to failure to respond by the head of the regional committee of the State Committee on Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining Oversight in the Mikolai Province of Mikolayevski to a parliamentary appeal to re-examine Valeri Zaborsky's work at the state-owned enterprise Zora Mashprojekt. Jury Crook to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of Ukraine's interests in the transfer by Moldova to our State of the Odessa-Reni road area in the area of Palanca, as well as the land under it. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the examination of the facts of criminal possession of the residents of Odessa on a particularly large scale, the officials of the Society with limited responsibility "East-2001", the gross violation of the constitutional right of property of the latter and the task of moral and material damage to them, the use of appropriate measures to react to the renewal of citizens' rights, the elimination of violations of Ukrainian law. Jury Crook to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the provision of schools in the Ishmael district of Odessa with adequate conditions for teaching. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the activities of the Luhansk City Municipal Enterprise Heatcommunnergo and the involvement of this Luhansk city head. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-compliance with the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act. Andrew School to the Attorney General on the details of the violations committed during the operation of the premises following the reconstruction at: Lviv, General Chuprinka Street, 5. Valery Konovaluk to the Attorney General for falsification of a diploma on higher education of former Deputy Chief of Security of Ukraine, Andrija Kislinski. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General for failing to execute a court decision by the Society with limited responsibility for Northspecbuilding and not taking appropriate action by the Prosecutor's Office to resolve the matter. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General for the reinstatement of the criminal investigation into the murder of Ruslan Taburian, son of the Ukrainian National Deputy, and the summons of Leopold Taburian. Vladimir Jaroschuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal acts aimed at delaying the holding. aimed at the acquisition by officials of the airport and the city of Odessa airport of state property. The city of Odessa. Eugene Kzarykov to the Attorney General for the protection of the rights of hikers and the development of theatre and concert activities in Odessa. Eugene Kzarykov to the Attorney General for the protection of the interests of the State and for the proper process of taking over the administration of state-owned enterprises. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide an answer by the prosecutor of the Mikolai Province of Mikolayov to the MP's request for possible illegal actions by officials of the Mikolai City Executive Committee and the Open Shareholder Society of the Mikolai Homebuilding Union. Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney-General, Head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for the immediate action of the ongoing violation by the Temirov Rural Council of the Gulajpil Region of Zaporozhye and personally the Director of the private agricultural company Mir Alexander Chub for the provision of drinking water for low-income peasants, John Harchenk and others. To the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market, Anatolia Matviyenka, on the verification of the overriding of official powers by individual employees of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, as well as the employees and heads of the Odessa territorial administration of Rowenski in part of the organization and the commission of illegal actions aimed at the raiding of enterprises in Ukraine and beyond. And to the Minister of Industrial Policy, Anatoly Matvienka, the MP's request for the functioning of the Baranian porcelain factory in the district of Žitomir. These are the MPs' questions. We turn to the issue number 7626 for inclusion in the agenda and for the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the holding of the next election of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, urban, rural, village councils and village, village, city heads). [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the vote will be after we discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u98	I would like to invite the head of the Temporary Special Commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please calm down. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk as chairman of the temporary special commission will now report the bill, then we will make a decision on how to move forward. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a special procedure for consideration, so we will first discuss it, and the Rules do not allow for a reduced procedure, under the full procedure of this matter. Then we will decide whether or not to put the bill in order of the day, and to refer it to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion. Dear colleagues, 226 national MPs have come up with a legislative initiative to make appropriate changes to the Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission, which, together with the participation of interested parties, including representatives, including the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, had a comprehensive review of the bill with the participation of members of the Professional Committees. And we propose to support the initiative of 226 people's deputies to make appropriate changes to the Basic Law of Ukraine. And I'm going to find out what the changes are. In particular, make changes to the Constitution, such changes. Part of the first article 76 reads: “Constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 450 national deputies of Ukraine, which is chosen on the basis of a general equal and direct election right by secret ballot for 5 years”. The other one. Part of the first article 77 reads: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine elections are held on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. ” Third. Part five of article 103, which reads: “The presidential election of Ukraine is held on the last Sunday of March of the fifth year of the Ukrainian presidency. In the event of a suspension of the President's term of office, the election of the President of Ukraine shall take place within 90 days of the end of the term of office.” Four. Part two of article 136 is as follows: “The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea consists of deputies elected by the inhabitants of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the basis of a general equal direct election right by secret ballot for 5 years. The next election to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea takes place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. Fifth. Parts of the first, second, third, article 141 read as follows: “The rural, rural, urban, district, district council consists of MPs who are chosen by the inhabitants of the village, the villages, the cities, the area, the area on the basis of a total equal direct election right by secret ballot for 5 years. Territorial citizens are elected by secret ballot for a term of five years according to the village, village, and city heads, who are headed by the executive body of the council and preside over its meeting. The election of rural, rural, urban, circuit, district council and rural, village, city heads takes place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of office. This is the circle of questions that our colleagues are offering -- 226 people's deputies -- that were supported yesterday by an absolute majority of the members of the temporary special committee. All those who took part in the meeting voted in favour of this bill and in favour of its inclusion in the agenda today and for the appropriate conclusion, as required by the relevant articles of the Constitution, in the Constitutional Court. [[of the 10 national deputies elected to this commission were attended by eight national deputies]] One of the national deputies, a member of the Temporary Special Commission, in particular a colleague of Knyazevitch, abstained from voting and asked for it, and a temporary special commission made such a decision that Knyazevitch would be able to speak today with a separate mind as a member of a temporary special commission when considering the matter. I would like once again, my fellow Members, to emphasize and point out what we have with you or, more precisely, 226 people's deputies are proposing, and I hope that we will make such a decision today, and in the end we will ensure the necessary changes to the Constitution at the next February's next session, which will begin in February next year, for the final adoption of this bill. Because the point is that after the Constitutional Court's decision on unconstitutional changes to the Constitution, we went back to the 1996 Constitution, and in that version, you know that the powers of the Supreme Council have been established for four years. The Constitution stipulates that the next election of national deputies is held on the last Sunday of March of the fourth year of the Supreme Council. In the same Constitution, you know, and we've tried, I think we're going to talk about this and, in particular, I don't want to take, sorry, bread to a colleague of Knjazevich, and he's going to talk about that and he's going to talk about that, that we've already tried to resolve a problem that's not settled, that's what the authorities of the local self-government, the terms of the stay that the council is going to choose, respectively, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and on which the terms of the rural, and the village, and the city heads are going to choose. You know, I guess you and I have stopped literally to solve this problem, and hopefully we have an opportunity to solve these issues right now. Along with that, if you've noticed, I want to focus on that, and they've switched places. If Parliament's elections are held in March under the current Constitution and the President's elections in October, the last Sunday of March and the last Sunday of October of their term of office, we are now proposing not to shorten the term of the Supreme Council, and in 2007, you know, the Constitution was valid for five years. In order not to shorten the term of the President, we propose that the President’s election take place on the last Sunday of March of the fifth year of office, and that the election of the national deputies be held accordingly on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of office. [[and he entered into the fulfilment of his obligations, his obligations in February of this year, in accordance with the Constitution in force at that time]] So let's speak plainly, as they say. If you and I are making these changes to the Constitution, we're with you. and by implementing, and today starting this implementation, we're giving a clear and clear signal, and we're giving, if you want, a clear and clear answer to the questions, and the suggestions that have recently been made, the proposals that I've read three or four times today in the MP's statements, about going to the polls in March 2011. Once again, with these changes, we answer that the Supreme Council is acting in accordance with the current Constitution, its mandate, and we have been chosen by the people for five years, but accordingly to make some changes that he has proposed. The same applies to the President’s authority to retain his authority over the term chosen by the electorate for five years. And so again, I stress, we set and set the same term for the election of the local authorities of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and other authorities of local self-government, i.e. rural, rural and urban heads. And including, for the first time in our Constitution, we set out, clearly when these elections are taking place, and on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and to the local authorities that they are also taking place -- the next Sunday of October of the fifth year. That's the whole point of this change, and I hope you'll have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u100	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please sign up for the question, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u101	The short procedure is not permitted by the Rules. This is my answer to those who propose. I support you, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u102	Please, Sergey Podgorny, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u103	Dear reporter! I have doubts about this bill in part of the local election itself. The point is that you know that there was such a very bad decision by the Constitutional Court on the interpretation of the term of office of councils that were elected in the off-the-shelf elections, as well as the terms of the authorized heads of rural, rural, urban, which were also chosen in successive elections. Unfortunately, your bill does not decide the dilemma that the Constitutional Court has offered us. Still, do you think you should listen to the majority of parliaments that have already considered Bill 4177 and in principle were ready to reconsider it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u104	Thank you for asking. It has absolute logic and justice. Yesterday at the meeting of the temporary special committee, I was talking about this, and I told you again, and I will repeat that with that thought and with regard to it. For this very reason, I think Comrade Knyazevitch did not support the proposals and he asked to speak with a separate mind to argue the positions you're taking. You know, indeed, that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, and at the same time, each of us knows that we have, once again, stopped to solve this problem. I think today the Supreme Council has the power to decide and resolve this matter as most of the Supreme Council will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u105	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u106	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Of course, everything can be solved as the Supreme Council wills, but it seems to me that in the Constitution and in the old and new it is written that the only subject and sovereign of our legislation is the Ukrainian people. In addition, he gives the authorities certain powers in the elections and examines that these powers are not increased by usurper methods. That's the weird thing about this whole logic: where you can add it to yourself without consulting the people, you think you can do it because we've chosen a different term, we've chosen a different mandate, the President has chosen a certain term and with certain powers. Today, there is an increase in the power of the President, absolutely, in my opinion, unconstitutional, today goes on to extend the powers of the higher legislative body. Well, that's usurpation. Of course, it is convenient for some who know that they will never be chosen here again. So let's work on the same logic somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u107	Thank you. Let me to some extent disagree with you about who you are and who is making the laws. Indeed, in the 5th article of the Basic Law, the people. “The bearer of sovereignty and the only source of power in Ukraine is the people.” But article 75 of the Constitution states that “the only legislative body in Ukraine is Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. That's why Parliament creates the law, in accordance with the Constitution. On the basis of your objections to the Constitutional Court's decision. I can't agree with you. You can make political assessments, but you can deny the decision of the Constitutional Court, not one of the Ukrainian citizens, including the national MPs, has the right. All of us are primarily national deputies who are obliged to follow through on his decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u108	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u109	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I see that it was a very great desire to extend the term of the Supreme Council, at least under the document you and Igor Fedorovich Sharov signed twice, especially you have the 1st and 150th numbers, and Sharov has the 3rd and 109th numbers. How did this work out? And the second question. Is this not a political bribe for many of those members of the Supreme Council, especially the so - called carcases, who understand that after these elections the number of them in this room will decrease considerably? And that gives us this preference for a large number of deputies. And the third question about the decision. It is suggested that the Constitutional Court consider the matter as an urgent matter and decide by December 1. We practically put an ultimatum on the Constitutional Court. We know how the Constitutional Court ruled on the elimination of polytreforms, and we can assume that the matter is already resolved in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u110	Thank you, Vladimir. As far as signatures are concerned, I think each one of you here understands, there's nothing strange about that. The signatures, you see, are certified and tested in the Frame Management. And those signatures that aren't counted twice or three times. Why so? It's very simple to explain that signatures collect factions first. They collected the signatures of the faction, they filed them. But it is necessary to place the first signatures of those who, in case of need, would represent interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u111	Yeah, guys, relax, don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u112	will represent the interests of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court. So there's nothing strange about it, it's purely technical procedural work. I can't see it. For the sake of haste and what you call words used in the name of those who decided to listen to the voters who gave the absolute majority of votes for the current President, and decided to concentrate on the Supreme Council and work on the implementation of this President's program, history will judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u113	Finish up, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u114	And if, in my opinion, believe me, I believe that those you call will be more members of Parliament than those who call them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u115	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, so cleverly, so cleverly, so cleverly, so wisely, so understandingly, you have made the point so clear that there are simply no questions — they can simply be sucked out of your finger. Of course I won't do that. I withdraw my question and invite everyone to support the presentation before the Constitutional Court, to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u117	Thank you. Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. But I would ask you not to give me such characteristics, because you can see that Yuri Anatolyevich cannot bear that he alone deserves such characteristics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u118	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Please ask questions. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you more calmly, you see, because the status of parliament is affected by the situation. I see the light is coming. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I don't think we should pay any attention to any request from the opposition by consent. And the motivation is completely understood by everyone, and there is nothing serious and legally verified under these questions. But I have another question. Why do we keep asking questions about 2007 -- the year of election of this Supreme Council office? Did she choose a valid Constitution at the time or not? Well, then, if not, in 1996, when the Constitution was adopted, those who were elected in 1994 had, in 1996, honored to go to the early elections. You don't have to do anything stupid! If this cadence was in force at the time of the Constitution, and it's been elected, and it's been working for three years now, let's not go into politics here, but out of pure jurisprudence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u120	Thank you. I'm the only one who can say and repeat on Jury Day: the law of retroactive action is not. We were chosen with you on the basis of a valid law of the Constitution at that time. Our term of office is five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u121	Please, Yuri Klukkowski. And I, my colleagues, would like to warn you that we've entered the subject. Well, obviously, as a minimum, we'll finish it. That's why we keep working. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u122	Thank you very much. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, there are several questions that apply to this bill. But first of all, I would like to remind you that there is a position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with which the election is based on the Constitution valid at the time of the election. Therefore, the discussion that we were elected for five years in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision to abolish reform must be forgotten. However, I support, in principle, the idea of a bill. I just wish that we weren't directing it today, but that we would take into account two other circumstances that, in principle, I think, support everyone. First of all, if we're equalizing everything about the President and the Supreme Council, let's say that the next election of the Supreme Council is in 90 days, not 60 days. Because it's not possible in 60 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u123	Finish it, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u124	And secondly, let's put together two bills, one that has already been approved by the Constitutional Court on the terms of authority of the local self-government authorities for five years only in the case of election in the next election, and the undersigned exercise the powers to hold the general elections. So let's unify these two bills and make a 90 - day amendment to the Supreme Council for the next election. I think you can get 450 votes in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u125	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. I think we will find a wise solution when we discuss this with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u126	Okay. Dear colleagues, we thank Adam Ivanovich. Before signing up for the performance, the national deputy Carmazin insists that his name is mentioned, indeed, in a positive context, on the replica. If there is no objection, please, Karmazin, the replicator, will continue to be Ruslan Knazievich with a separate opinion from the commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I respect you very much, but you almost took off, i.e. the wings almost grew when you were now praised by Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. I think on Jurist Day we're kind of embarrassed to be trampling on the Constitution, as 16 judges did in an unconstitutional way -- they've changed the social order. 16, because two have written a separate thought, that's what I'm saying for those who can't hear. Yes, dear friends! Not bad to trample on such a day, there must be something sacred, there must be a right, though ideal, though for our children, although for our grandchildren, although for the students. There has to be a right to the ideal of sacred. That's why he's not in a hurry. The 2004 Constitution is still in effect, first. Second, the junta of love ended its life course with death.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u128	Please, dear fellows! We're considering a very serious question, let the wings grow as they go down. So please, with special consideration, the right to speak is given to a member of the temporary special committee, colleague Knazevitch, please. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow MPs! Truly, frankly, I had a separate opinion and it was based on two basic principles. First of all, it will sound paradoxical right now from my mouth, but I would like to thank the authors of the legislative initiative, the 226 national deputies of Ukraine, who legitimized and confirmed the opinion, and withdrew the public debate on how many terms of office of the current parliament and the local councils, respectively. The term of office of the current parliament and local councils to be elected on March 31st, four years. In view of these circumstances, the local council elections that will take place on October 31 will mean that we choose nationals. the deputies of the local council for a term of four years, since these changes will not take effect until then. The final decision should be in the next scheduled session by at least 300 votes. The next session begins, as Adam Ivanovich said, in February 2011, and rightly said Yuri Bogdanovitch, according to the Constitutional Court’s decision, the very valid Constitution sets a date for the start and conduct of the electoral campaign. I remind you that under the current law of 22 November, an electoral campaign is being launched on the next election of the Ukrainian National Deputies, which will take place on the day of the vote of 27 March 2011. Because until then, this law will not become effective -- once again, I remind you -- that November and February are different months. It will take another three months for it to take effect. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, who moved me to vote against this kind of decision. What, you know, "talked-talking, sat down and wept." With such difficulty, we worked together to amend the Constitution in order to regulate the term of office of rural, rural, urban, rural, urban, urban councils in order to synchronize them for five years and the possibility of establishing a five - year term only for those councils and the mayors of rural, rural, and other elections. And that's what we've been fighting for so long for, and, as Adam Ivanovich said, we stopped in half a step. Now it's one word that disappears from the bill -- one word! – but it solved the huge problem that Parliament faced last year. What is it? The point is that, at the request of the Kyiv City Council, the Constitutional Court explained that even those councils, rural, rural, urban, local councils, who are elected in successive elections, are chosen for a full term of office, that is, for four and five years. Since, - said the Constitutional Court - specifically, the Constitution does not determine which elections are to be chosen by the council and by the corresponding term. In our decision, we made it clear that for a full term they chose only in the next election and sent the decision to the Constitutional Court. What did the Constitutional Court tell us? He said, well, now it's clear which election they're going to choose, the next one. And so in the extracurriculars, if you change the Constitution, they're only going to go to the next ones. Without waiting for the final vote of 300 votes, you, your honourable colleagues, are voting in favour of the law on local councils, where you are already writing a rule that all those who have been elected have been on a stand-by, sorry, act only on the line. If you don't vote for the next one now, please delete this rule, because everyone who's out of line has to act in full time, and you don't have to push them into the next election. Moreover, you have made exceptions to the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Head, and the Ternopil District Council. Dear colleagues! This means that their next election is due in March 12th and March 13th. And you write that the next election takes place only in October of the fifth year. So what are they two and a half more years from now to wait for all the next election? Do you want to set up a separate election for Kiev and Ternopol? This is ridiculous! You will never get out of this problem. So the only way we're going to remove this problem right now is because it's a unique opportunity for us to re-establish what we've already approved. Because otherwise we're not going to get out of this problem, we're going to throw hundreds of millions of dollars out of the state budget every year for a permanent local election. This problem either needs to be solved once and for all, or we need to realize with our hands that we are thus destroying the slim system of local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u130	Thank you. You heard the thought. [[Applause]] She has the right to life. So I'd like you to sign up for factions to discuss the matter. That's the record, now from the national MPs. So this is what happened, let's take 30 minutes. Please, the Rabbit "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u131	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear National Deputies! The people say very clearly about the kind of activity that we are demonstrating today: the law as a breather -- as it turned out. What do we do? First, they broke down the timber -- they changed the constitutional system in an unconstitutional way, in an unconstitutional way, they changed the powers between the Cabinet of Ministers, the President and the Supreme Council, and now they want to cover up their crimes in substance, and they want not only to justify their sins, but also to hand over bribes to the Ukrainian people's deputies. That's what activity does if we don't stick to the Constitution. What am I talking about? We should not only talk here about the possibility of correcting the situation in which the Constitutional Court has driven us by its unconstitutional decision, but rather evaluate this activity of the authorities because we are not constitutionally changing the constitutional system. So if we're talking about bribes and we're looking at all of these proposals, we're sitting here, at least we're giving an extra month's mandate to the Supreme Council deputies, this is about the 1996 Constitution, and at least two months' additional powers are given to the President. Well, what country does this happen to the world? First, the cadence is installed, and then, according to these powers, elections or other things are taking place. It's happening the other way around. Now let's get to the plane of the Constitution in 1996. The 1996 Constitution says that national MPs have a term of office for four years, and that was the right thing to do, but then they bribed the national MPs for five years. Because you know that social dynamics are growing from day to day, and today it is necessary for the representative authorities to have a smaller cadence to come to the Supreme Council with these problems of people, and not sit here, in these halls, even passing all these halls for five years. So the trend today is that we should shorten the powers of the Supreme Council rather than increase these powers of the Supreme Council. Again, we are dealing with this problem as if nothing had happened. And that's the problem that Mr. Knazevitch and Mr. Klukkowski were talking about. Clearly, if technical matters are to be discussed, these bills need to be combined. Finally, we have to cover up this practice of constantly breaking the Constitution! Is it not enough for you to have this coup that you and the Constitutional Court have brought together? Why do we break and break this Constitution again? Therefore, this is not in line with the Constitution of events. It's like a race for the events you've made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u132	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The more you communicate with the common people, with the working people, the more you realize that the foundation of wisdom is not gray - haired men in parliamentary or ministerial robes on their shoulders, but the foundation of wisdom is a simple working people. Because his wisdom comes from the east, from the earth, from life itself. And what does the people, the common people, who are 10 times wiser with you, say in this regard? And he says that what will remain of this country if we shake a country like pear every year in elections, in favour of certain political adventurers. When power begins to take up the functions for which we choose: economics, social issues, state-building issues and order in the country. It is clear that someone whom the people of iron broom for a “fine job” five-year-old took to a political dump is eager to come to Parliament. [[& Tiles]] Nothing! Let's cool off for three more years, let's sober up. And maybe there'll be new ones, and they'll forget you, even better, yeah. Now look what's going on. We have a unique chance if we take this decision, this decision will be taken by the Constitutional Court. Five years before the election of the local authorities. The President will be working for almost five years. And two more years from now, Parliament will be working. That is, for the first time in six to seven years, the country has been given the opportunity to work in a stable manner for two years without any elections. We will withdraw the economy from the path of sustainable economic growth from next year and then convert and raise social standards. We can tear the country out of the dirt in the last two years. So, if you look at the specifics, what's the opposite? The President has been elected for five years, the same is true, it is five years, it is simply a specific date. We've been chosen for five years? The date is specified here – exactly five years. By law, the local authorities have only four and five years of action and advice. But you and I have already made such a consensus decision that it takes all five years. In fact, our common position is accumulated here, which does not conflict with the laws under which the authorities were elected, nor with our common position, which has been echoed by representatives of different factions. Therefore, I suggest that we not be wise, listen to the people's opinion, stop shaking the country, set de jure five-year deadlines for all authorities and allow the country to work together and to drag it out of the dirt for two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u134	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Mr. Fomin, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko gives to the Podgorno, please. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u135	Dear voters, I feel sorry for you because lately, almost a month or two, there's been a complete lie coming from the Party of Regions. They've been on TV for two months now saying that we don't want to and we won't let them come back in 2006. What happened during the days? And the days were just coming back, not even in 2006, but in 2004, in the year 2000, when Gongadze was killed when everyone and everyone was robbed. And today it's the same thing. These changes to the Constitution are a complete lie, frankly. The main thing is not what they want to vote on, but what they want to vote on. I remember a few days ago, commenting on the future decision of the Constitutional Court, one of the famous lawyers sitting here in one sitting there, saying that it was a decision based on what was taken with the violation of the procedure, not only on the Constitution, but on all the laws. And what do we see after that? That in this room all the laws of the last days are passed with a breach of procedure. But he doesn't give a shit because he's a senior, and he knows he won't be responsible for it. And that's why I don't think we can make any changes to the Constitution today. We can only bring them in according to a procedure that is clearly prescribed. This bill, which is being tabled by the Temporary Commission today, unfortunately it was nowhere else to be considered -- not on the committees, but to see what it takes to do there and how to do some kind of expertise, to make scientific and expert management and all that. Because the Constitution is a very important and very serious document, and if we're going to take it out of the voice again, we're going to accept some amendments there, the question of what will be written. I want to remind the faction of the Lithuanian Block, they've already made public several times, when the law has been voted as one, another version has been signed, the third version has already been signed, and the fourth version has entered into force. So why are we forgetting this today and taking positions when we're making some changes in the voting room today, and what document there, for example, went to the signature yesterday, nobody knows today. That's why I think our faction will refuse to vote in favour of this bill because we don't support procedures that go against the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u136	Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian Block. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u137	It seems to me, my dear colleagues, that such super-emotions, such righteous anger must be addressed, not to anyone, but to themselves. And today, when a legally illiterate request was put to the vote for parliamentary elections in March 2011, a total of 25 people from one faction and 28 from another faction voted for it. Ladies and gentlemen, have these righteous, angry conversations with your fellow factions, the same party, and do not pretend to be fighting a faction with someone. Work with your people, and then you will be honest. But without emotion, I want to say, just give some facts, some arguments, they're incorrigible. In 2007, this cadence of the Supreme Council was selected, if you remember, on September 30, 2007. Then there was legislation that worked. It was valid at the time, and the elections were held under valid legislation. Any first-grader lawyer will tell you that the law of retroactive force does not exist, and that's true. Because it's the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, don't scream. Don't shout. Anatoly Sergiyovich, you're not yelling. You should contact those who have not voted, 50 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u138	Anatoly Sergiyovich, you're compatriots.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u139	But you should turn to those who have not voted against you, 50 men, because you are nervous. Go to them. So I want to give you some articles of the Constitution. Article 79, paragraph six: “The approval of the national deputies shall begin at the time of the formation of the oath.” Article 81, follow if anyone can logically: “The approval of the Ukrainian national deputies shall be suspended at the same time as the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Article 79, first paragraph: “Before taking office, Ukrainian national deputies shall make such an oath before the Supreme Council.” Article 77, first paragraph: “The next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes place on the last Sunday of the last month of the fifth year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” And now for the facts. Ukraine’s national deputies for the sixth vocation took an oath on November 23, 2007. Thus, on November 23, 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which you all work, gained its authority. Because it is valid only when the country’s national deputies were sworn in and became fully competent. Thus, the fifth year of credentials ends on November 23, 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u140	Thank you. Bondarenko Volodymyr, please. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u141	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. It's a strange logic for individuals who come out of this rostrum. Then, when they are comfortable with it, they say that the law has no reverse force. When it's not convenient, it's the other way around. And when it comes to returning immediately to the Constitution, which was in force until 1996, in part of the President's mandate, the changes to the Kabmen Act and so on, we need to do so immediately. And the President was chosen for another Constitution, with other powers. Obviously, with regard to him, the Supreme Council has no right to change any position in the law, even one letter, because the people gave him the right to rule the state with certain powers. And it says here that many of the people's thoughts are known. Obviously, fearing elections even in the near future, even more so in time, it will be even more frightening for the new authorities, for they will have nothing to do with them. There's nothing left to go with today. All the social promises made in both the election posters and in this room are not fulfilled. So when you go to people, ask them: Do they like the price growing every day; do they like the fact that they stopped paying full help to families with children; or do people like the gas being twice as expensive and twice as expensive? They will certainly support these steps of yours. They applaud you. The people we're talking about are applauding this. The Chinese and many residents of the city are applauding the sharp rise in public services tariffs. The people applaud you for adding 8 pennies to your pension, stopping the savings payments, just applauding. They're waiting for you to be in power for 15 or 20 years, because the pace that took over today's power in destroying the social conquests of previous years, the abuse of the people is unprecedented. That's why you're afraid of elections, even if you want to take your kennel for a day. Some here tell us that he cares about the welfare of the people. No, you grew up in these chairs, you grew up with them today, and you're afraid of going to elections. Go, please, take over the authority of the people. Already today, scores of parties that now make up the coalition have fallen in half, and every day they roll down and down into the chasm. That is what you fear, not that you tell us that you stand for the rights of the people today and have given people choices. In all civilized countries, elections correct politics, force politicians to act for the benefit of the people, not for themselves. So let us not stretch our deadlines for a day, for a year, for a year, for two, but go along with the powers entrusted to people, use them, report them to people, and then tell them what they love and what they do not like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u142	Please, Andrew School. According to him, Arjevitin passed on to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished peoples of the MPs! Dear radios and television audiences! You know what's going on in the session room right now? In fact, on the one hand, the Bank gave instructions to today’s buttons to vote in favour of aligning all laws of Ukraine with the illegal decision of the Constitutional Court to abolish the polytreform. On the other hand, what about when the Constitutional Court canceled the polytreform, set clear terms and dates for the elections? So this is where you want to play it this way. That he was right to increase Yanukovich’s authority. That's what the Party of Regions wanted. But he was not right in depriving the MPs of their authority for an additional year and a half. That is, fear governs the situation by those who try to tell us here what five - year - olds need to do. Five - year - olds, I realize that your youth has been in five - year - olds, in the construction of communism, and so forth. But we need to live in new realities. You'll understand. You didn't build communism then, and now you're just living on a lie. You promised me five years of tax breaks. Well, who went to the holidays?Oh, my God! Tax police have increased, entrepreneurs are squeezed out, and safety deposit boxes are cut out with chainsaws. In general, the symbol of today’s authority is a gas saw. If they were making their political careers with a baseball bat, they are now working with a gas saw. Because that's what you have to figure out, cut the safes with a gas saw, remove the documents, and stop the business like that! And they tell us here what it takes five years, because, you know, a country without an election is not going to work. You either cancel the Constitutional Court's decision and legally through the Supreme Council make changes to the Constitution, or then go to the elections and tell the voters that they now have twice as much pension as Greece costs not 20 dollars, but 7. By the way, in Poland, how do you know where the Greek has always grown or not, it costs 7 bracelets at our cost of kilograms, and we have 20! Come to the electorate, tell them about it, but they will vote for you. You have a cloudy rating. What are you afraid of going to the elections? You have an administrative resource. You're falsifying the result. What are you afraid of? Because there is a fear. And fear is not the best regulator of your relationship with society, you fear it. So you, on the one hand, want the old Constitution to work, but on the other hand, you want old powers to work. This is not the case, you see, here to make sure that both the wolves and the sheep do not howl, because either the wolves or the sheep are to be sacrificed. Believe me, even if you're pushing Parliament through a decision that you're going to be sitting here for two and a half years, that doesn't mean you're coming back here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u144	Anatoly Matvienko, please. He'll be followed by Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u145	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, when you look at what is happening in recent times, especially today, including in our hall, you can conclude that we are learning the truth because we are not learning anything. The manipulation in the name of political relevance, which is what guides everything that is going on, is unacceptable at all in the walls of the Supreme Council, as well as in the walls of any state authority, and more when we consider such pressing and very important issues as the change to the Constitution of one article or another. I want to assure you that an analysis of what is being submitted now will make you go back to that question, even before the elections, both the Parliament and the President. I don't want to go into the details right now, but it only says that it's done in a hurry. We are not taught the norm that you have so successfully abolished by unconstitutional means: Law 2222. I have one idea: that we don't need stability, we don't need predictability, we don't need seriousness -- we need spectacles. And the Supreme Council is demonstrating them. The Bible’s famous event, the adventure of Ham and Japheth’s brothers, is mentioned. We have the impression that we have one hammock. We don't, in the Supreme Council, have a place like the rest of the government. Now for the point. Well, my friends, don't play with the local authorities. We passed Bill 4177 and sent it to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court found these changes to be constitutional. They are unchangeable, preceding the Constitution. Well, let's approve them, let's actually do it before the local five-year election and the councils, and then let's say we don't lie to them the way you're deceiving them right now, doing four years and one and the other. Regarding the election of the President and the Supreme Council. Again, my friends, if you go back to the spirit of the Constitution in 1996, it is clearly stated that, regardless of when it came into force, there were two or three elections, which means, well, the course of the President's election, in any case it was written clearly, it was in October, after the Supreme Council, it was in March. So who gives you today grounds for changing the spirit of this constitution and adding three months to the President, as you wish, and the month to the Supreme Council? Well, again, that's not fair in terms of integrity and respect for the Constitution again. Therefore, this cannot be supported. I urge you, Adam Ivanovich, to review this constitutional commission of ours once again and to listen to common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u146	Yes, thank you. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. He's being handed over by Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, which means he has six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u147	Thank you very much. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. You know, the Ukrainian people are very rich in folk creativity. And Soviet times led to the great evolution of that creativity, and then it was only possible to laugh bitterly. It seems to me that today there are times when you have to remember how the Ukrainian folklore was modified at the time. Among other things, there was this proverb: “Don’t speak up until you jump. ” In Soviet times it was modified: “Don’t say hop, even when you jumped, look at what you jumped into.” So it seems to me that the present authority, forgetting this version of the parable, has taken unconstitutional steps, forcing the Constitutional Court to repeal Law 2222, and now it's found itself in something and it's looking around at what we're in and how we're going to get out of it. And these are the current steps when the texts of the bill and the texts of the Bills to be adopted by the Supreme Council are written far beyond the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council should vote nicely without allowing a single coma to be changed in that bill, just as it shows that we are continuing to “stuck” increasingly into the same. There's no other way to do this. Now for a short period of time, what we have been "involved in". I would like to remind you, repeating what Oleg Zarubinsky said, that we were elected in September of the seventh year with a mandate of five years, but I'm sorry, there was not only a mandate for five years, but a mandate for a government. I'm asking, what about waking up with this mandate? If this is how we want to maintain the mandate of five years, let us say that the law has no reverse force and that no decision of the Constitutional Court can deprive the Supreme Council of the mandate to form the government it received in September 2007. Why, then, could the mandate be withdrawn and the time frame not to be withdrawn? Now, a purely legal argument: the Supreme Council appointed the presidential election for October of the ninth year of the Constitution, which was in 96. Think of that determination. And then there was the same argument: the reverse power is not the law, the president was elected by the 96th Constitution, so there should be an election in October 2009. What did the Constitutional Court then say when it declared the ruling unconstitutional, because, you see, according to the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council then forgot that it had made changes to the Constitution and those changes in action? And it was called Law 2222, but it's already the face of the Constitutional Court. But the Constitutional Court said that the elections were based on the provisions of the Constitution that were in force at the time of the elections, not at the time when the relevant body or person was elected. So it doesn't matter what the Constitution does. And although I am personally sorry that we have been "involved" in this, unfortunately, on 22 November, the Central Election Commission, in accordance with the current Constitution of Ukraine, is scheduled to announce the start of the electoral process. And then I remind you of another legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the elections that have begun, no one has the right to cancel, because it is then a violation of the people's right to elect power. It's a decree. This is the Supreme Court's decision to annul the Ternopil district elections. Read, colleagues, a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court, read and study. But now with regard to the good intentions of correcting the slap that was made as a result of the repeal of Law 2222 in an unconstitutional way. I emphasize, because he did it in an unconstitutional way, so we found ourselves in what we are today. So if we're going to change these standards by the text of the changes, I'm going to support them by 90 percent, these standards should be accepted. But once again, it's worth not taking them as the command did, so I push the button. And to think about what to do with these standards as to how they should look civilized? Let's see. The President's election is held over 90 days, and the election of the Supreme Council is held over 60 days. Please tell me, why is that? That the absence of the President is less pressing than the absence of the Supreme Council? But no, I would say, on the contrary, the absence of the Supreme Council, as a colleague of Chechetov said, “there sit wisdom or wisdom in the people”, does not feel the absence of the Supreme Council of the people. But in 60 days, it's virtually impossible to do all the procedures without being manipulated. So what I'm asking is maybe in our interests we can change this rule of the Constitution, because we're changing the positions that apply to elections. And to write that the Supreme Council is also elected for 90 days. By the way, it's never exactly 90, it's always 5 or 6 days less. The other one. We have already resorted to local elections, which are now in line with the wise decision of the Constitutional Court, to be held whenever anyone wants to, even to another. We unconstitutionally did not appoint elections in Ternopol and Kiev, and now I do not know when the next election is to take place. But in our own time, we accepted the need to solve this problem. We prepared Bill 4177, he was supported, I want to remind you, far beyond the constitutional majority. Why don't you count it now? And my explanation is very simple. Because those who painted this text of the bill don't work in the Supreme Council, they don't know the problems we're facing here, and they just forgot about the bill. So now I'm asking you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u148	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u149	So I'm asking you all, let's make these mistakes right. Still, no one will accept the changes to the Constitution until November 22 because they can be accepted not earlier in February. Now, if we make these changes to the Constitution, we make them human and literate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u150	Thank you. But you're going to suggest that November 22nd accelerate if you enter 90 days. Please, Baby Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u151	Thank you. You know, I'm not afraid to go to the election, I don't have fear of elections, I haven't gone to any elections, and I haven't won any elections, but I signed under this law that we're considering today and I'm voting for it. Let me explain why. We vote 4,177, where we promised the local authorities five years of authority. I want to remind you that we voted this law before the presidential elections because we wanted to be supported by local self-government. Why should we not vote today for what we supported before the presidential elections? If we are to be consistent, we must be consistent, as they say, both in the presidential election and after. One. Next. The Supreme Council, on the other hand, was elected for five years. Why should we limit the term of office of the Supreme Council as a result of an unconstitutional decision by the Constitutional Court? Why should we add authority to the President, and the Supreme Council should not even have the powers that it had to go to the elections in the first place? I believe that the decision of the Constitutional Court is unconstitutional. Because if the President wanted to regain President Kuchma's power, he would have to do it either through the Supreme Council by amending the Constitution, as we are doing with you now, or in a referendum, but not 16 judges of the Constitutional Court should change the constitutional order in the state. Why not extend the term of office of the Supreme Council until October 2012? I mean, that's why I vote for this law. And the last. You know, I, it's a rare case where I agree with my colleague Chechtev, a frequent election, unfortunately, to the detriment of the country. Elections, and let's be honest with the people, elections -- populism, populism -- that means fooling people. When you and I hold elections each year, instead of doing real things for the country, we will be forced to cheat on them every year. Let's let the people rest a little bit from our lies, let this power that is, show what it's capable of, and then people will give it an assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Literally a few words as a talker for the closing word. I thank my colleagues very much for yesterday's session of the temporary special committee, and for today's performances that really hurt for the document we're about to take with you. Whatever they want. Yes, some people don't want anything at all, but some of the deputies who have spoken want this document to be more logical in their eyes and especially on Jury Day to make us look more legally grammatical. So, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to join us in this thought: that we should now vote with you for article 136 and article, for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and for article 141, to be published in the texts that we already have a decision of the Constitutional Court. And there's only one thing that's added to this, and I'm going to say that I'm going to read it for the stenogram. To these texts of the 136th and 141st in the same edition that we received the Constitutional Court's decision to add just about. give, more faithfully, when the next election takes place, that they take place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of the authorization of a certain Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, or local self-government. Therefore, my fellow Members, I propose that we now vote in favour of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Congress of the Bill on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (for the holding of the successive elections of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, city, village councils and village, village, city heads and refer this to the Constitutional Court. And once I've changed my mind, I'm going to read article 136, which is part of the first article of article 136, and I'm going to put it this way: “The Autonomous Republic of Crimea’s representative body is the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, whose deputies are elected on the basis of a general equal direct election right by secret ballot. The term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, whose deputies are elected in the next election, is five years. The next election to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea takes place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. And part one and part two of article 141 reads as follows: “The rural, rural, urban, district, district council consists of MPs who are chosen by the inhabitants of the village, the villages, the cities, the area, the area on the basis of the overall equal right to vote by secret ballot. The term of office of the rural, rural, urban, district, district council whose elected deputies for the next election is five years. The territorial communities shall, on the basis of the general equal right of choice, choose by secret ballot the rural, rural, urban head, who shall be the head of the executive body of the council and preside over its meeting. The term of office of the village, village, city, elected to the next election is five years. The election of rural, rural, urban, district, district council and rural, village, city heads is held on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year.’ So we're taking into account the suggestions made by both a colleague of Klukkowski and a colleague with a special mind, on behalf of him. As a member of the TSK Knyazevitch, and we are enforcing our decision, our decision with you, and in fact, what we have received from the Constitutional Court. So I propose with these additions to vote in favour of Decree 7226. Please vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Supplement. The discussion was that they were in the process of discussion. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're putting it in order of the day and we're sending it to the Constitutional Court. As required by article 146 of the Rules. [[12:38:36]] For 265 Thank you. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 178, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 2, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense – 14, Communists - 26, Litvina Block - 20, non-fractional - 25. Thank you. The question is closed, now. I, my fellow honourable Members, would like us to vote with you on such a protocol decision, so that we can consider two more questions: this is the amendment to the Rules, and this is the bill, which in the second reading, and then we move on to the “Variance”. Please support this idea. Please vote. If we come. [[12:39:27]] For 254 Decision supported. After a minute, which of the factions, which proposals, I see. Please sign up in a minute. Please, I'll take a look, I think Carmazin's first. Of course, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Any additions should also be discussed, and I'm telling you that for the transcript, because the procedure is extremely important. I want to go to the hall today, go to the Constitutional Court and remind myself. Dear friends, now our President is in France, let him study what happened when in 2003 the senators approached the Constitutional Council of France to determine the constitutionality of the law, namely the decentralization of power that was adopted twenty years earlier. You know what the French Constitutional Council said to them, it's like a Constitutional Court, just a court, not a brigade. That's how they said it, we don't consider ourselves competent to decide on the change in the Constitution, because we're just checking the laws, and our "treasure" has allowed itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u154	Please, Sharov Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a joint opinion on behalf of the faction and our colleagues, will be expressed on behalf of another faction by Valérie Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u156	Tushenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u157	Andrew Anatoliovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u159	Excuse me, Pisarenko, please, and then Kozemyakin. Please. Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u160	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. My fellow Members, we will now consider a bill to amend the Rules, which was created by the parliamentary majority, the bill was passed yesterday. And what I'm saying is that we haven't touched on any other issues than the questions that are related to the operation of the 1996 Constitution today. So I have this proposal, and I think it's going to be constructive, and I'm asking you to back it up so that we don't waste time on the full procedure, let's go through the reduced procedure. There are only those points that relate to amending the Rules in connection with the existing Constitution, and we do not need to spend much time doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u161	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, today we saw at the beginning of the meeting a farce on the regular “hour of the government”. You saw that the ministers came to themselves or who was fulfilling their duties, and they answered the questions they had written and quietly left. Adam Ivanovich, at which point you show that you are the regular equilibrist himself experienced in our Supreme Council. Therefore, of course, we would like to listen to the person who is responsible for the failure of the economy and the inability to submit the budget to Parliament at the proper time. Adam Ivanovich, I'm with you! Yuri Anatolyevich, please step away from Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich! I'd like to ask you the following. The point is, what you put in your agenda at the end of the day is a very serious regulatory issue that you say you have to keep on check, follow the Rules, please demonstrate it. Here is the decision to release, the cessation of the parliamentary powers of people who have already.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u163	I got the idea. Dear colleagues, we're talking about a question that. I've heard your opinion, I know what you're talking about. I heard you, I heard you! Once again, we are discussing issues related to the Law on Amendments to the Constitution. At the same time, other colleagues expressed other thoughts. I'll finish the law first, and then we'll go back to the proposals made by the MPs. I repeat: I have heard your offer! What do you want?Oh, my God! Repeat your offer? I'll repeat your offer, or I'll put it in, that's my business. So from the point of view given by Yuri Anatoliyevich about the draft changes to the Constitution. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I stress once again, these amendments that we made were not simply discussed and spoken by colleagues Knazevitch and Klukkowski, and they, once again, have already confirmed the conclusions of the Constitutional Court. So we haven't broken any procedures here, and I think we've done the right thing if we've included them in ours. to those proposals that, as it were, are addressed to the Constitutional Court. And in closing the question of the changes to the Constitution, I would like to make another suggestion that, given what we have made and the changes we have made now, and so on, I would like to assign both the Chief, and the Legal Office to work, the technical legal ones that the nuances will be, so that we don't allow anything to happen, are very technical and legal. not to change anything, but to form a document as appropriate and to be drafted for referral to the Constitutional Court. This question is now under consideration. We'll get to the accomplices, we'll look at them. We'll consider when we get to the accomplices. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, we are moving on to the draft Law on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 7199). Once again, the Supreme Council will act as it determines the decision, not as they wish to determine the decisions of one or the other MPs. Once again, the Supreme Council is working as it has just determined in 252 national deputies. That is why we are now considering making changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 7199). Dear colleagues, yesterday at the meeting of the temporary special commission, a draft amendment introduced by the Head of the Supreme Council was considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] introduced by the Head of the Supreme Council and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council to amend the Rules. I would like to point out that the Rules have been amended only to those articles and only those articles which have a bearing on the decision of the Constitutional Court. You know that you and I have made a special decision in which we are obliged to implement the Supreme Court’s decision, the Constitutional Court’s decision, without delay. So, if you'll excuse me, Your Honor, let me inform you of the decision of the temporary special commission. At the meeting of the temporary special commission, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a temporary special commission for the participation and representatives of the committee of profile, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Deputy Ethics and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council, and in particular, and in particular a fairly active part of the committee of Sás and other national deputies, proposed to submit to the bill that you have. And I'm going to read for the stenographer, and I'm going to read for the stenographer the changes that are proposed. In particular, in article 59 concerning the conditions for the formation of the deputy faction, part three, it is proposed that the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy and Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council should not be included in any of the parliamentary factions, in any of the parliamentary factions. The same is true of article 59, where we form parliamentary groups. In the second part, the People’s Deputy, the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council are not part of the membership, are not part of the parliamentary groups. In 81 articles, the creation, the creation of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will have to ask the Supreme Council a question. And I think they'll be here on the proposal. It's about how we form the committee's personal composition. The head of the committee, the first deputy, the deputy head of the committee and the secretary of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] In an article, in article 82, part six of the committee's head, first deputy, deputy head and secretary of the committee cannot be the heads of the parliamentary factions, MPs at the same time. The same is suggested, it is suggested, by the honourable colleagues, that article 205, which refers to the granting of an appointment by the President of Ukraine of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, should be made available in an editorial, as we have issued with you yesterday, in that edition of the Cabinet of Ministers Act in the Cabinet of Ministers Act that we passed. Article 208 on the order of appointment and discharge of those categories of persons to whom the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees in part seven proposes that the vote on the appointment of persons listed in part one of this article be carried out by the Supreme Council by secret ballots, and that the discharge of such persons shall be carried out by open ballot, except for the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, which shall be exercised in accordance with the law by secret ballot. Article 212 fourth part: “The President of Ukraine or the authorised person participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council during the consideration of the issue of the appointment of the Attorney-General of Ukraine.” [[and pick up the dot]] These words are deleted. Article 214 “The procedure for the consideration of the selection of judges by the Supreme Council of Ukraine unscheduled” states the second part: “In accordance with article 88, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the preparation of the election of judges of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is unscheduled for consideration at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in the absence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy Head or Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] The same is true in 216 articles in part two, which discusses the preparation of the question of the discharge of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and judges elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on an uninterrupted basis, for consideration at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, is organized by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the absence of him, the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council or the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. We had a discussion on article 229: “Organization of the holding of a ‘hour of questions to the Government’. It is suggested that in part four of this article, the written questions of MPs and factions, MPs and groups are asked written questions to government members, whom we define as factions or MPs, and to whom a person authorized by Kabmin answers within 30 minutes. And 30 minutes, the rest of 30 minutes are spent on oral questions by Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, these are the proposed changes that were unanimously supported yesterday at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'm sorry, on a temporary special committee. There are a few other suggestions that are based on the following: that we, in the rules of the Rules, such as colleague Omelchenko, propose that we in this Rules restore the rule that the deputies have the right to form inter-deputy alliances for, let us say, for the sake of interest, for standing up for those or other ideas that do not have any organizational structure, grounds, that is their voluntary union, MPs, to resolve those or other issues: whether it's a union of “Staff” or a union of “Kyiv” and so on and so on. And the second. We're going to have to go back in the course of this discussion, and I'm stressing that, and I've already talked about it, and we're going to go back to the proposal on how to go or how to choose the governing composition of the committees. Here are the honourable colleagues, the suggestions I would like to make in the course of our discussion with you. Now, your honorary colleagues, the chairman of the regulatory committee does not respond because the TSC is tasked with making such a statement by your order, and we are acting as the main committee. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. And for those who stand, I will say that your proposal will be put to the vote. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the question. Dear colleagues, I repeat, the proposal will be put to the vote. We have voted with you on the proposal that today the Supreme Council review the changes to the Rules, consider the bill in the second reading and move on to the “Variance”. There was another offer. This proposal will also be put to the vote after consideration of the Rules. He'll be supported by the Supreme Council. We'll look into it. I don't see any problems here. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u164	The Law of the Rules is an important story, but the Law of the Rules cannot be passed when the Basic Law is violently violated. So we have nine accomplices in the Supreme Council, these people have been dividing positions for nine months. We can accept 10 amendments to the Rules and the Constitution, but if wicked lawbreakers, morals will remain in the walls of Parliament, then who is Parliament? How can we treat this body with respect? We either decide now, I know you're an honest and decent person, and now you're going to propose, and the same honest and decent people are the Party of Regions, and they're going to vote for the removal of those accomplices from the parliamentary positions that are now being held by the President's Administration, or the governors of those or other areas. You can't do that. You need to respect yourself first, and then you will also be respected. We are talking about some European standards, where do we see people breaking the law after nine months?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u165	Thank you. Perhaps you were preparing to ask a question and did not hear what I said. I reiterate, yes, this has to do with the Rules and after discussing the Rules, your proposal will be put to the vote. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u166	Carmazin, the Party of Motherland Defenders. I don't know, Adam Ivanovich, why there's a minute there. Please set 3 minutes as per the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u167	You're not speaking yet, you have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u168	Adam Ivanovich, I'm on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u169	If you're given three minutes to ask questions, you're going to ask 10 minutes to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u170	Adam Ivanovich, I have a question for you. Please tell us what to do, and who are the members of the parliamentary group you envision in Article 59? What's wrong with you talking to Volodymyr Litwin, who can be released by 226 now, even though you need to get 300 tickets? Question three. Where is the conclusion of the scientific and expert office if you brought this Syrian bill here for consideration? Question four. Why you are already violating the Constitution because the Communists have never recognized, respected, and never implemented any constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Yuri Anatolyovich. I first met the case when you didn't read the document. That surprises me. This is the first time in your life. Because in the changes proposed in the Rules, your 300-vote amendment didn't touch anyone, nobody makes any amendments, and it doesn't have any. I don't know whose editors, I'm reporting the draft of Bill 7199, where the authors are Litwin and Martinyuk. I mean, there's nothing there. Please, Kamchatny. Is it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u172	Kamchatny, group “Reforms for the Future”, Kharkiv region. Actually, I don't actually have a question, Adam Ivanovich, but, really, I want to confirm as a member of this temporary special committee that was all taken into account yesterday. All thoughts, including our colleague, Knyazevitch. And today we have every right to consider this bill. So I have a question for you: why can't you calm down those people who are there, near the rostrum, for unknown reasons?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u173	Well, on the basis of whether everyone voted, the Prince does not vote in principle for any of the questions, because he does not acknowledge what he does not admit. Pavlovsky, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's handing over Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u174	Andrey Pavlovski, "Block Timoshenko", the "Fatherland" party. Adam Ivanovich, before making any changes to the Rules, let's first implement the Constitution in 2004 and 1996, namely, release those who are in grave violation of the law and the Constitution, namely the co-founders. Nine months of violations, well, where else? Well, let's vote, it's two minutes, and then we'll make the changes you want to the Rules, but in these changes, they actually destroy the rights of opposition. Because we can't invite the government to the Supreme Council anymore, or get a report, lose the board's control functions, release the members of the opposition who are now acting as deputy committee secretaries by their own discretion, most of them, and lose, in fact, the right of opposition and the sense of being here. Well, what are the democratic standards? The story.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u175	Andrey, once again, I repeat for the third time, the third time I repeat that the proposal to consider the issue that stands last in the agenda today will be put to a vote after we consider an issue that we cannot stop. Please, Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u176	I give the word to Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u177	Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u178	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, is now claiming to be as strong as ever. At present, everything that can be usurped is usurped. But, as we know, a strong one is never afraid of anything. At the same time, we see that there is no mention of opposition and its rights in the proposed Rules. I would like to remind you that as a result of the previous elections, opposition today has more confidence in Parliament than most people in Ukraine. Do you not think that the absence of references to opposition in the Rules indicates that today’s authority is the colossal of clay feet and is weaker than ever because it fears its own people?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u179	Well, basically, it was a performance. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u180	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we all need to calm down. I just can't understand the lawyers who are going through the Constitution on Lawyer's Day. Well, you can't do that if the Constitution is in force today in Ukraine, which has a philosophy of the presidential-parliamentary form of government, and you want to leave the Rules to the contrary where the parliamentary-presidential form of government. It cannot be that the Constitution is the main, it is the foundation, it is the foundation, and the Rules are the resultant of the Constitution. And we cannot live in Parliament, as if under the dome of Parliament, we are living in the form of a parliamentary-presidential republic, and the country is living in the form of a presidential-parliamentary one. Therefore, the right, precise changes, which are consistent with or correspond to the articles of the Constitution, are absolutely correct. I think we just have to vote and make no noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u181	Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u182	Thank you. Taking advantage of the occasion, I would like to congratulate all the lawyers on the festival and to convey the word to Valery Pisarenko, also a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u183	Valerius Pisarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Once again, that's all that's going on around the reception, that's the smoke curtain. First of all, there is no need for Parliament. We have to edit with you. Rules are constitutional requirements, and in that part of today the Rules do not work. So today, we could also avoid a reduced procedure. Unfortunately, we did not put it to the vote or vote. But at this point, Adam Ivanovich, I would suggest that we build a job like this. We have an understanding with you about voting in the hall, in the heads. I think we should give Sergio Sass a word so he can tell us how to explain it better. It is to accept and vote in general. Because otherwise we're going to have a cast of deputies right next to the rostrum, and there's not going to be any normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u185	Thank you. Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u186	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I thank you for your support and actually what you said about what my position really was. And yet I insist that the vast majority of these proposals that I have proposed are not taken into account. But at least that I had a completely different position with regard to the quantity of factions and the number of MP groups that could gain the power of faction among others. Because we need to say to the end that we now have members of the MPs who are full of factions with all the consequences provided for in the Rules. And what, basically, I asked not to make a group, is not to recommend to the Supreme Council to vote in general, because I believe, and our faction authorized me to say it on a group and now that we cannot seriously violate the Rules by amending the Rules. Because that's not the question where we need, let's say, to set a bad example for society. So I'm going to make my main remarks during the presentation, but please confirm that there are other issues that will need to be discussed and not all taken into account by the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u187	Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u188	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Please give the floor to colleague Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u189	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u190	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Adam Ivanovich and all those who today stand in the position of such a dramatic change in our Rules without considering the thoughts of the deputies, without discussion on the committees. I want you to know that we are not the only ones in the world. And what's being done in Parliament today, it's interested in Europeans, it's interested in other democracies that are around us. And when any mention of even a minority parliamentary or opposition disappears, it shows the weakness of the power that is being usurped today. I note that in all European parliaments there are certain rights of greater or lesser opposition. The older Parliament, the more rights. Here we lived in some form, where we could hear a word from those who had a different opinion, another position that offered other suggestions. You ignored them, you trampled on them, you spit on them, and you walked your way, but we have not lived another year here in this country, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! The questions came to an end, essentially these were proposals. I propose that we continue to do so, so that we can speak to a representative of the factions. Then, in view of the fact that there is a decision by the TSC to accept as a matter of law as a whole, to hear what suggestions are made by the deputies, to resolve the issue of the proposals that will be made by the deputies. and taking into account the suggestions that we will hear from the vote, we will accept this document as a whole. I put the motion to continue to discuss the issue in this way, I ask you to vote. We're not breaking anything with you. We're giving you the opportunity to make suggestions. [[13:08:56]] For 243 Dear colleagues! Now, if you'd like to sign up for the factions. Chechetov please, three minutes. Get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Let's talk about the Asians: what is the Constitution? The Constitution is the foundation of a public building. And if the foundation of a state building is built under a single floor building, if we build a ten-story building, it will collapse, the foundation will not stand. That's understandable, I don't know, for ten millenniums, when our ancestors were built without cranes, they're standing. And the Heops pyramid stands because the foundation was built under the building. Our ancestors understand that! What do you want now? Foundation one, and the building is completely different. Let's have ours. The Neanderthals will criticize yet, our ancestors. So if you'll excuse me, absolutely all right, the Constitution is a presidential-parliamentary form of government, she claims. That is why we cannot work here in Parliament on the Rules as if there are parliamentary-presidential forms of government, there cannot be two constitutions. One Constitution for Parliament, for Deputies, one for the country, cannot be the Constitution one for both the country and the Parliament. It is therefore perfectly correct, as I explain to lawyers, that adequate changes to the Rules should be made, and that the articles of the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council and the Constitution should be harmonised. These articles must be synchronized; they must be identical so that there are no two interpretations. Therefore, if the status of an entirely different Government, if, to date as such, the Constitution does not imply the formation of a coalition in Parliament, if the Constitution has today abolished the firm law among the deputies, it is from the birth of 1861 when the reform and the abolition of the fortress law among peasants was abolished. Today the MPs are free, they are serving not their leaders, they are serving the State and the people, and the people have chosen to serve not the leaders, but the State and the people. Therefore, the MPs have the right to leave the faction, to form a group, is their right to unite. I repeat, today, under the roof of Parliament, the spirit of freedom, freedom of choice, the freedom of a deputy to work for the State, not to serve his leaders. Therefore, I reiterate my appeal to the opposition, read the Constitution carefully and let us live by the Constitution, both in the country and in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u193	Roast Roman, the faction is passing on to Knyazevich, please. Prepare Sasha.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! I hope we're a little bit more in the professional language and less in the pathetic language, because. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me do that. That's what I'm talking about. I'm stuck with making decisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's about that. Let me get this straight. The point is that in fact, these changes to the Rules, to my profound conviction, are designed to contain several norms that are built on the basis of the constitutional system, and that is to say that they have the prospect of distorting the national will. What is it? This is about the possibility of forming factions and MP groups of 15 people. That means there's really no meaning as a result. The election goes on as people vote. It doesn't matter that people are writing statements about being part of a faction, even when they've been chosen, because somehow you have to get a mandate. What matters is that you can come to Parliament and leave your faction peacefully. It's said to be a replication of the Rules that was before the 4th year. No, dear colleagues, it was in that Rules that there was a rule that the MP's faction should have become a minimum. The smallest MP fraction, at the time, is 14 people. Based on this logic, there were at least 20 people to be predicted in this Rules, because if we write 15 and the same numbers for the MPs, we provoke the factions to be destroyed and the results of the national will to be destroyed. We provoke what's going to happen to a bunch of MPs, we provoke that we can eventually have a completely different parliament at the end of the box office, with completely different factions, groups than what people voted for. And it's no longer Parliament, it's not the people who got the people's mandate, it's the people who just, you know, spit on people and start making their own policies. So I ask you, at least in this part, logically to approach and propose standards. How many factions did the election get, how much should it be, not less than the number that is in the minimum fraction. And if there's a parliamentary group, let it first pick the quantity that's in the minimum fraction and then you can claim something. If she has 15 people, she has not even reached the faction, and we have given her the powers that the faction has received through a handful of elections. Therefore, this part should be radically governed by this Regulation and therefore should not be voted on as a whole, Adam Ivanovich. Because if we are already in breach of the Rules at the time of adoption of the amendments, then we are “sinning the price”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u195	And yesterday you were better. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Chief! I didn't want to start with that, but I have to give an answer to those who want to change the parliamentary procedure quickly. I want to remind my colleagues that in Ukraine's law system one of the most complex areas is the area of procedural law. There are a number of objective and subjective reasons, one of which is that there are very few theoretical developments in the field of procedural law in Ukraine. In Ukraine, unlike Russia, where there is a manual on "The Theory of Procedural Law" of Lukyanovo, there is no course in the VUZA theory of procedural law. So I'm not surprised at the thought of some lawyers sitting in this room saying that we need to change right away, and everything, and fast. A special place in the field of procedural law is parliamentary procedural law, a parliamentary procedure which is presented in a single legal act, the Rules. The language goes, what's the complication here? Here is the complexity of the subject of legal regulation, and the subject of legal regulation in this situation is Parliament as the body of legislative authority, the subject is the authorities of the Supreme Council, and the national deputies of Ukraine are given the same procedural rights as the result of elections. And in view of the limited possibilities of sanctions for violating procedures for these subjects, which are to be appointed in connection with inviolability. Hence, the Rules today represent a very delicate system that can be disrupted at any time. And it's too bad if it's not done competently. This will lead to chaos in Parliament with all the corresponding consequences. That's for introduction. The only positive thing about the proposed bill is that the drafters of the bill, I don't mean those who signed it, Adam Ivanovich and Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, but those who wrote it. To their honor, they did not intervene in the parliamentary procedure. They did not interfere with the legislative procedure, in general. As for the other positions, I would like to say the following. I completely disagree with the point made in this bill that the first deputies, deputy committee heads, committee heads should be elected on committees. And that comes out of the Constitution because in the 1996 Constitution, that's the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u197	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u198	And in the 2004 Constitution, that was the norm. The point is, I wanted Adam Ivanovich to draw your attention to the following rules of the Constitution, this is part of the sixth article 89, which states that the organization of the work of the committees of the Supreme Council is governed by law. And that allows us to resolve this issue from that point of view so that the heads, the first deputies, the deputies and the secretaries of the committees will continue to be elected by the Supreme Council. Article 82 provides that the organization and order of work of the Supreme Council shall be governed by the Constitution and the Law of the Rules. The election of the first deputies of committee heads, deputy secretaries of the Supreme Council, is an element of their independence. I will give an example of the fact that Ruslan Petrovich Knyazevitch was released from office as head of the subcommittee by electing a national deputy who had never appeared before. Is that what we want to do? We want to achieve chaos in committee work. Next. All rights denied. I don't agree with Chechtov that it was parliamentary-presidential, and it's presidential-parliamentary. Here is the experience of the United Kingdom, where there are opposition from Her Royal Majesty, who has it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u199	Yes, finish. Finish, you've been five minutes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u200	Let me say from a minority, my opinion. I disagree. Because nothing is written in the Constitution or in this proposal. And this does not prohibit the possibility of some opposition, of opposition to certain rights. I'm talking to the majority. If, Your Honor, you want 200 people in this room who are gonna be unfaithful to their ability to pass laws to make proposals to be considered who are going to be deprived of all rights, these people are just not going to do the job. And two more suggestions, Adam Ivanovich. Therefore, I propose to leave all that relates to opposition in the current Rules. And two more suggestions. About an hour of response to the government, so that this hour of response would not turn into the farce we were to see today. Then we have to do the next thing. All questions are addressed to all members of the Supreme Council of lips, and no written questions will be asked. Because if it's the same thing, there's going to be praise from the Ministry of Agropolitics, and there's some kind of achievement there, and that's where it's going to end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u201	Sergei Volodymyrovich. No comments. Make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u202	The proposal is that all questions of the hour of the Governing Body, as provided for by the Rules, should be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u203	Have I heard the next offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u204	And the final offer. We've seen a farce. When as a result of judicial reform yesterday, the Supreme Council is practically complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u205	I repeat. Turn off the microphone. Sergey Volodymyrovich, hear me without the microphone. I'll tell you, you've been talking for seven minutes now, make suggestions without comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u206	Last sentence without comment. 215 article part eight, where the Supreme Council decides once again on the election of judges, I propose that this takes place not more than once, once again. And during the month after the first vote. Thank you for your attention! I hope that the opinion of minorities in this Supreme Council will be heard. That's not what we need, that's what most people need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! We listened to statements by factions, including suggestions. Let's do this now. We're going to vote on each of the proposals that we've made, we're going to figure out what proposals we've made here, and then we're going to define what we've voted on, so we're going to follow the rule that we've defined. So, honourable committees, let's figure out the proposal that Carmazin made. Deputy Carmazin speaks of expelling from the Rules all that is mentioned about MPs because, he said, no one voted for them. No one really voted for them. But the reality of today is that, you know, we already have the right to get into a faction, to get out of a faction, not to get into a faction, and so on and so forth. That's one thing. The other one. All MPs are equal in their rights. Therefore, if we give the deputies the right to unite in faction, why do we not allow the right to unite in groups? Here's a comment. I'm putting my colleague Karmazin to the vote. Who is in favour of supporting Karmazin's proposal and removing MPs from the rules of the Rules, please identify yourself. [[13:24:18]] For a hundred and No decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, I'm putting forward the proposal that Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich made in his speech yesterday, he stood up for this position at the TSC meeting. In principle, this position found some support at the TSC. What are we talking about? It's about the fact that you and I are today with the Supreme Council forming a personal composition of the committees, and the Supreme Council are choosing the head, the first deputy, the deputy and the secretary of the committee. In line with the changes in the Constitution, it was suggested that we go back to the old edition that the Supreme Council would choose only the head of the committee and the committees would choose the rest of their leaders. Sass is offering to leave it behind the Supreme Council. That's why I'm proposing, my dear colleagues, that we do this. As far as this is concerned, in 82 and 83 articles, where it comes from the formation of committees and the recalling of committee heads to make sure that all of this applies to the election of committee heads, the first deputies of committee heads, interlocutors, secretaries and their appeals, in order to leave all of this in the current context. Please support this proposal. 81st, 82nd, 83rd, we vote. [[13:26:07]] For-360 Offer accepted. So I'm stressing again. As so far as the formation of the staff and the leadership of the committees, the overall leadership remains with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yeah, next offer. The next suggestion was to leave the rules of opposition, the opposition government, and so on and so forth. Well, of course, I think you're welcome. The argument is, jojik can't do it without an argument. Please. One minute, Jojik, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u208	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, a few days ago, the whole of Ukraine saw the meetings of the President of Ukraine with the leaders of the majority factions, where the President's very clear requirement was that most of them be counted against the opposition. In view of the fact that there is no mention of opposition in the document, I propose to take a break from the meeting of the Supreme Council and to find out how such a situation occurs, which most ignores the opinion of the President of Ukraine. And only after the true motives of this position have been identified, will we have a vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u209	Yes, it's very good of you to support the President. That makes me happy. I'm putting to the vote the proposal to have all the rights that have been prescribed. In the Opposition Rules, leave. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:18]] For 133 The offer is not supported. The factions. “Regions” – 0, “Julia Tymoshenko” – 105, “Our Ukraine” – 27, Communists, Lithuania – no votes, “Afterfractional” – 1. Another was the offer. We now propose that the “hour of questions to the Government” be built about: half an hour goes to the written questions posed by factions and groups, and half an hour to the oral questions of the national MPs. Colleague Sas suggests that members of the government answer only oral questions. That's why I'm asking you to be specific. Please, Sass, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so that the hour of answers to questions to the government does not turn into a façade proposed by this standard: that all factions send written questions to the government, that is, a government official, going to the rostrum for 30 minutes, choose the questions he is comfortable with, and that will be what has happened before. And then see what happens: and those minutes, given the Rules, that one minute for a question and two minutes for an answer, you can ask accordingly in 30 minutes, you know, just 10 questions. What is this “hour ”? Let's make everyone's fool see, let's ask the government officials oral questions. And then we'll see both the authority and how it's oriented in the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a certain raid, as is the radio when you give in writing. In advance of the written question, the member of the government who comes to answer will give a more meaningful answer and will be more satisfied than he is. The knife, as it were, will spontaneously raise the question. But the matter of the session room, as you will determine, will be. I am voting on a proposal from my colleague, Sasa, that in an hour the questions of the government should only be answered by oral questions. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:41]] For the 120th. The offer is not supported. Sasa’s next suggestion is to write in 215 articles, where judges are concerned, about what they are returning to a question that has not been supported by a judge during the month, not immediately, but during the month, and that such a vote be held only once, i.e. twice, essentially because once, and then again. Got the idea? Got it. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:31:34]] For-138 I didn't get the offer. Yes, fellow believers, let us now set out with the suggestion that we be able to create interfractional MPs who will have no right other than moral obligation to resolve those or other matters. Please support this idea. [[B in m in s a l in]] It is not forbidden, but if it is recorded in the Rules, it will be better. I don't think there's anything here. [[13:32:12]] For 254 Offer supported. And the last sentence of those who spoke, which I mentioned, including that the TSC had practically supported the question. But it is still worth receiving the agreement of the session room that in article 81, when it comes to committee creation, we should add that according to the quota principle of MP factions, since we have already established such formations as MP groups to add “deputy factions and MP groups. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Brackets, braces. [[13:33:06]] For 259. Yes, yes, thank you, 259. Now, honourable colleagues, please register with whom there are other suggestions for clarification as well. I'd like to write down who has the suggestions for what we're discussing with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we're going to give you a word for suggestions. Sign up, sign up, Yuri Anatolyevich. Yeah, it's a lot, it's a lot. Davidenko, please, what's yours? Rabbit, offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u212	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that today the ruling majority of the Party of Regions, Communists, the Lithuanian Block is going to the full usurpation of power, and is thus destroying the institution's value for democracy and the development of Ukraine as an opposition. I propose that in that old edition of the Rules of Procedure, this article on opposition is articles 20 and 25, in the form of day plenary meetings and weekly plenary sessions. Otherwise, the opposition cannot have any effect on the vote in the Supreme Council, nor on the formation of the agenda. What is it that does not usurp power? Where do you lead this Ukraine, the distinguished Party of Regions, Communists and Lithuanians? What do you want? Do you want to set a dictatorship here? It won't work!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u213	We are leading to a bright future. Yes, it is up to the vote to propose to a fellow Hare to leave the right behind the opposition as it is now, to form a day order on Wednesday. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:35:01]] For 101 Not supported. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, in today's Voice of Ukraine, a report from yesterday's meeting of the President with the leaders of the majority faction. I would like to quote: “The President specifically pointed out that opposition must have every opportunity to express its opinion. If there is a strong power.” Dear colleagues from most, I quote the President's words, I hope you're not laughing at the President, no. “If there is a strong power, and we are building such a system, there must be strong opposition. “ I don’t know – according to President Janukovic of Ukraine. – “We should not press opposition. The opposition must be able to express its point of view. We must develop institutions of democracy in the country." I hope that most of the deputies, using the absence of the President and what is not in the country, will still listen to his position. Therefore, my proposal, Adam Ivanovich, which is in agreement with President Yanukovic's proposal, is to leave in the present Rules all the rules relating to the activity of the opposition. Otherwise, it also contradicts the course of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, I'm calling your attention again. I'm going to ask you one last time about the opposition. But more than that, if these proposals sound, I won't put them in. So please, once again, but for the last time, ask the question of opposition. I repeat, not now, but the vote. Who's in favor of supporting the Laity proposal, please identify yourself. [[13:36:54]] For 106 Not supported. Viennese, please. It's not Martinyuk. It's your colleagues who signed up. The question maintainers will be asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u216	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. Adam Ivanovich, today we have to be guided by this moment's current norm of the Rules, I want to make a note for everyone, and I want to remind everyone that this is the law. And according to this law, we're competent, and now the lawyers are working on it. Not a single national MP to make constructive proposals to the bill proposed by Lithuania. It is only fair that, as required by today’s Rules, a two-week pause will be able to prove to the committee our proposals to this Rules. And that's why I would like us today, without violating a valid law, namely, the Supreme Council Rules, to consider it in two readings and in a hurry not to make our proposals now, which, you know, do not find an understanding, because they have not passed the expert committee, they have not passed the conclusions of the Legal Department. And so that, according to the law in force on the Rules of Procedure, we adopt a law under which the Supreme Council of Ukraine will act. And people would have to treat us with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u217	Thank you. You're absolutely right, but the Supreme Council has decided today that we will listen and determine with the proposals of the national MPs and we will generally vote in favour of this law. That was the decision of the Supreme Council. Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u218	Vladimir Moses. Party “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to a colleague of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u219	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to share a vision of the problem with my colleague Moses. First. What we are about to do, Adam Ivanovich, is in grave violation of the Rules, the Law “On Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. And the procedure for adopting the bill is being violated. We have neither the time nor the opportunity to make corrections to each article. That's the first one. The other one. On the second reading, we have the right to vote on your suggestions. And you know that very well, by those who have taken the proposal into account, to base it. We do not have the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which is mandatory under the Regulation Act. A new violation of the law. We have an obligation to leave the standards of the Opposing Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u221	Arjovitin. He's got a minute, he's got Arjevetine, he's got Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u222	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, as we also consider the proposal made by a colleague of Sasa, who was restricted in the speech, he certainly could not say all the suggestions he had made about judges, without touching article 214 on the order of appointment of judges. I remind you that part two of article 89 of the Constitution provides that the Committees of the Supreme Council are carrying out legislative work, preparing and pre-interviewing issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From this point of view, the Law on the Court of Justice does not conform to this standard of the Constitution; it must be amended as it does not correspond to the approach that is now in place to the coworkers who are currently in office for nine months. And Adam Ivanovich, you didn't want to put them to a vote and suspect you didn't want to bet. So I demand a second reading of the full, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u223	Thank you. Remove your suspicions. I am voting on Karmazin’s proposal for 214 articles. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:14]] For-83 Not supported. Please, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u224	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Adam Ivanovich, I did not begin to speak, please include the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u225	Please. Jojik, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u226	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Adam Ivanovich, I want to say that you have a historical responsibility today. Because if you put to the vote the whole bill on the Rules, you first, you break the same valid Law of the Rules, on the other hand, you kill in the wedge, in the relationship of the President of Ukraine and today's majority. Because the President of Ukraine publicly claims that the opposition must have strong positions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today you're killing a wedge in the President's relationship with today's majority. I ask you not to take such a sin upon yourself. Therefore, please follow procedure and do not put it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u227	Dear colleagues! I emphasize once again, he has the right to make proposals, not to make speeches. Bobilov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u228	Please pass the word to Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u229	Stone, please. None. Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u230	Thank you. I demand, Adam Ivanovich, that I accept only the first reading so that the MPs can implement the right to make proposals for the second reading, and to stop the discussion, this mess. Because you have to consider the question of a co-conspirator who's been in office for nine months.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u231	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'm about to put your proposal to the vote so that those proposals that were supported by yours will now disappear from the Rules. Pisarenko, please. None. Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u232	I'm asking you to ask first questions about your accomplices, but you've given your word of honor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u233	Right, Karpuk, please. None. Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u234	This concert, which you organized specifically to avoid considering the issue of accomplices. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u235	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues! I repeat one hundred and twenty - five times: after the discussion of the Rules, I will make your proposal for consideration by the Supreme Council. Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u236	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear National Deputies! It is clear that today the Supreme Council is in grave violation of the Law of the Rules and this is the basis for us to submit this decision to the Constitutional Court for unconstitutionality. But I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to put to the vote article 68, where it is about opposition. I'm saying that if President Yanukovic is in favour of a strong opposition, there must be a legal basis for that. And if a party of the majority, the Party of Regions and others, oppose the legislative mechanisms of opposition, either the President is lying to the people, or you're lying to the President. And I would like, in any case, regardless of the president's position or your position, the opposition in Ukraine has a legislative basis for its activities, because this is an alternative, this is a structure that keeps you from getting out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u237	If I’m not mistaken, I’m asking the fifth time about the opposition to the vote, 68 articles. Please Identify [[13:45:43]] For 113 In rephrasing my colleagues, I want to say that the President had 113 additional supporters in Parliament. Yes, all the proposals that were discussed before the Rules were identified, and some of the proposals received support. Therefore, as I voted in the Supreme Council, I now put to the vote the proposal to adopt, as a whole, a bill amending the Rules of Law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals that the Supreme Council has supported as a result of the vote. [[Registration number 7199]] Please vote. Carmazine is protesting. We vote in general as a law. [[13:46:51]] For 253 The law is passed. The factions, please. 172 – regions, BUT – 3, Our Ukraine – 11, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania and non-fractional 20. Now, dear fellows, I'm making a proposal, I remind you again, we've voted with you on how we're going to continue our work. But colleague Cosemiakin made an offer to add the last question to the questions that we have to consider today, which is the last of us, now, now. [[I mean, we've already discussed the Rules, and we still have the question of second reading.]] Consider the issue of a permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:47:56]] For-98 Thank you. I'm not asking about getting into the daytime. It's included in the order of the day. The question has been raised that we are with you now, the Supreme Council has determined how we are working today, that we are considering the Law on the Rules, we are considering the Law in the second reading, and we are moving on to the “Various”. Cozemiakin suggested that we refer to these two bills the issue of the termination of the powers of the national deputies. I put this proposal to the vote, and unfortunately she didn't get any support. That's why we still have the question of the second reading and the “Variance”. Please have suggestions on who. I'll put it to the vote again. I'll do it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft Act is being reviewed by a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. Then I'll give you the procedure. [[on the creation of conditions to avoid "technical" defaults]] Piglets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u238	Dear President, distinguished members of the people! The bill before you was further elaborated on the second reading by the Financial and Banking Committee at its meeting on 22 September. The bill received 14 amendments from the people's deputies, 9 of which were taken into account, including 3 essentially and editorially, 6 amendments as a whole. The Chief Legal Office supported the adoption of the bill on second reading and generally as a law. In doing so, it would be useful to note that no management experts have been made available.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u239	And once again, I'm going to ask you one more time after this is over. I'm not violating the Rules, I put it to a vote. Yes, which of the national deputies who made proposals to this bill is not satisfied. Arjevitin, please, microphone. I'll put it after this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u240	Dear National Deputies! Adam Ivanovich, can we speak or not? Ladies and gentlemen, my offer is off-limits. The point is that when a repurchase is made of the issue of securities, those previous owners will have a first priority right. What are we talking about? There's an issue, there's an issue, there's price and there's terms. It is now up to us to decide that this issue should be redeemed. You can come up with a variety of reasons to buy the issue and then offer the following owners a different price. So in order for it to be fair that there are no raiders like this, I suggested that the previous owners of the securities issue have the right to be in equal conditions. The committee concluded that it was only a matter of time, but in fact, it wasn't just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u241	Thank you. The 10th Amendment of Collegiate Arjevetina is a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. How? They were making repairs. Why? [[13:51:35]] Yes, in 16. Yeah, what are the other adjustments? Arjevitina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u242	Dearly beloved, today is the day of the lawyer, and, Adam Ivanovich, you have repeatedly said that laws have no reverse power. That's why my proposal was to remove from the “Principal Regulations” that the norm of this law should be extended to those civil relations that arose under this law. And you know that the Civil Code of Ukraine provides that acts of civil law that regulate relations that have arisen since it became effective. Civil legislation has no reverse action, and so on. Lawyers, you know. So my standard was not to extend this new law, which we are introducing, to the relationships that have arisen to this day. I think it's obvious, it's a direct norm of the Civil Code, of all legislative practice. Well, the Constitution, I get it, they don't have much respect here anymore, so I'm going to ask you to support the elimination of the proliferation effect on those agreements that came before the adoption of this law. It's a legal norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u243	There are 14 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:53:09]] For-13. So all the adjustments. Oh, Carmagina, are there any repairs? No, Carmazine, I see. Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u244	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for letting me exercise my constitutional right. I'll remind you that we just broke the procedure when we passed the previous law. I hope that the Constitutional Court brigade will write down all these amendments and will obviously find it unconstitutional. As for the 9th amendment, I would like to introduce and write this article as follows: “A change to the draft issue of securities after their placement is allowed in the case provided for in part seven of Article 8 of this Act. Information on changes to the prospectus for securities issues should be published on the official website of the issuer and the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market for two days from the date of registration of such changes, which would reduce the cost of publishing and speed up the receipt of this information by interested persons.” There's an explanation that not everyone has websites. Well, that's their problem, whatever they do, but the people have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u245	The 9th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[13:54:47]] For-25 Yes, there's still Carmazine's amendment, 12th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u246	Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, Adam Ivanovich, I propose a part of the first chapter to the end of the second and the transitional positions to be laid out as follows: this law takes effect the day after the day of its publication. Obviously, on the day of publication he cannot enter, it is absolutely obvious to all. It is obvious that the following amendment by a colleague of Arjewitín, who was not supported in the hall today, contradicts the Constitution and contradicts common sense because laws cannot have a retroactive effect in this case. And you understand that very well, so you're putting a mine under this law. I ask you to take into account my amendment and return to the amendment of colleague Arjevetina, a perfectly correct, legally literate, provided for in the fourteenth issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u247	Thank you. I think it's right. This law takes effect from the day it was published. That is how it is written in all legal documents, but it has the right of a colleague of Carmazin to amend. I'm putting his amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u248	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u249	It's a constitutional norm, Yuri. Jura, this is a constitutional norm. [[13:56:18]] For-46 All amendments have been discussed. I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] The amendment of Arjevitina was a vote. I am betting on the adoption vote as a whole, as a law, registration number 5157, amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. Please vote. [[13:56:50]] For 246 The law is passed. Sass, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u250	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I want to say for the transcript that my card is in favour. voting for the Rules of Procedure Act in general voted "in favour" by accident, this is for the transcript. As for this question, I ask you to put to the vote the question of cessation, the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputies. This question does not need to be included in the agenda in accordance with article 20 of the Rules. That's why you're here. It's in the daytime order, you don't have a right to throw it out of the daytime order, so put it to a vote. We'll do it, and with a pure soul, we'll go get some rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u251	Yes, thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I wonder if the card will vote itself or if it will vote properly? Once again, no one takes anything off or includes anything. The point is that you and I determine the order in which these issues are addressed. I have already put to the vote the proposal to consider this issue immediately after these questions. I'm re-applying to your request: who's in charge. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll say it again. It's not standing. If it stands, let's work for the Rules. Let's work with all the questions. It'll come to that question. We haven't reached him yet, we haven't reached him, we're honored and we're expensive. So at the suggestion of my colleague Sasa, I would like to reiterate his proposal that we now consider putting an end to the powers of individual national MPs. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't put it to a vote because there are ten more bills ahead of it. [[13:58:47]] For-54 I promised, and I promised twice, and I put it twice: 54. That's the result if we look at it. Well, why are you so naive? Dear colleagues, let's move on to the "Virgin" please sign up. Please point to the board, we have an hour. We voted that we would consider these issues and then there would be “Victory”. Please, Romanyuk, get ready for Schmellow. Is there a romanuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u252	Bachatevi, please, Bachitevi. She'll be followed by Schmelov. Yes, Mankovsky, the sixth, is also passing on his time to Bachtevi. So she's got six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u253	Thank you very much. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Recently, we have heard very many complaints about the work of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, which is directly responsible for our health. And unfortunately, these complaints are sometimes confirmed by facts. We have these facts from the analyses presented to us today by the CD and the Court of Auditors. For example, as a result of 2008-2009 work, excess inefficient expenditures exceeded 50 million bracelets. To date, expensive medical and diagnostic equipment worth 86 million bracelets have been purchased centrally by Minhvod, without taking into account the needs and capabilities of the regions. In addition, 30 units of this equipment worth 80 million grevens cannot even be installed in treatment facilities because they do not even have a room. As a result of the purchase of medicines, medical and diagnostic equipment through intermediaries, the State was harmed by 41 million grevens. Today, we are talking about a very terrible demographic situation, that mortality is twice the birth rate, that today 65 per cent of the population of Ukrainians are dying from cardiovascular diseases, with 40 per cent not receiving the necessary treatment, not receiving timely cardiosurgery. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Today we're just looking for the kegs we need to send a child abroad to do the surgery. We are talking today about one million health workers today carrying on their shoulders, earning a miserable salary, working daily. 95 million visits per year are made by Ukrainians to treatment facilities, including the mass of unique operations, which are for the first time not only in Europe but also on the planet. I was recently at an international forum where our cardiosurgeon, Ilya Nikolaevich Emec, presented a new methodology for modern health care throughout the world. This suggests that today the medical community is ready, they can work, they just need to pay, they need to have the right attitude, they need to be able to have the equipment that the applications of the regions are making. We need to give the drugs that our people need today, the sick. And, of course, in the first days of his work, Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic, notes that today's health system does not fit today. There is no complete reform, a very weak legislative framework on modernization, on the transition to insurance medicine. And Victor Fedorovich, on all the humanitarian councils he holds, says that today we need to change the health system. And no matter how much money there's not going to be, there's always going to be a lot of money. Because year after year, we see that this money is being wasted, breaking into some kind of pocket. There is no effective, no rational use of this budget money. And today, every one of us knows that in every corner of our country today we can find at the same moment, a second of every human being, any child who today needs what it takes to either acquire drugs or perform surgery or be sent to a consultation, but today there is no possibility. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I very much ask that we have registered a draft decree on 3 June 2010 establishing an interim investigative commission. [[TSK]] The nine people's deputies are the authors of this decree. But why is it that today, in October, the Supreme Council Rules do not put this on the agenda. That's amazing. Is there a need to make phone calls on this issue, is there someone today who needs to be threatened and intimidated that someone is going to leave the Supreme Council or some of their posts? I think that the commission of inquiry, the nine people's deputies are asking for a job today, it has to answer all the questions that are there today, the questions that I'm not only concerned about today as a doctor, as a people's deputy, they're concerned about, literally, everyone. I once again call on all my colleagues to the agenda for the next plenary week, and that this issue must be voted on and that the Commission should work. It will work objectively, it will give a proper assessment of the work of the Ministry, which today we have facts that are simply unacceptable, shameful, offensive, painful, and for which I have to be held very seriously and seriously responsible. I'm asking everyone to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u254	I would like to invite national deputy Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of Communists who were handed the word of a colleague, to whom he has been given six minutes. He will be followed by Wolintz, also from the Communist Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u255	Respectable Ukrainian people's deputies, respected TV viewers! Almost all the years after the declaration of independence, the humanitarian sphere was managed by representatives of the nationalist forces. The last five years have been particularly devastating. The regime was severely damaged even by your President Yushchenko, who tried in violation of the Constitution, as a duty, to impose national-Shikinistic ideology, falsified history, rehabilitate collaborators and heroize Hitler's supporters. As an example, I cited this at parliamentary hearings, an attempt to name the national stadium in Lviv to the Euro-2012 Championship, which is being built on public funds at the Lemberg Stadium. The marzamatics on the right side of the hall even lacked the brains for their national title, and attempts to assign the name Hero Bendere and Shuhevich have aroused indignation among all decent people. And the massive breast-feeding of our fathers and grandfathers who fought in the Soviet Army against the brown plague, and you know who hung their brand of occupation troops, your Yushchenko, who served in the KGB of the Soviet Union. I'd like to ask some Movcan-type embroidery guys, Pavlychko, who are wearing a Karmazin embroidery. For 20 years, you've been furious with your independence, you're in power all the time, or you're close to it. What have you done for Ukraine, what have you built, how many new schools have you opened, new bookstores? And I'll tell you, statistics are stubborn, there are 224 bookstores in Central Ukraine alone, and, according to the Attorney General's Office, 2,000 schools have been closed in 20 years of your rage. Most importantly, you have issued a decree to combat the symbols of the Soviet era, and you yourself have been sitting in cozy offices for 20 years in Bankova, Grushev, Krestatika, built by Soviet authorities, enjoying the beauty of Stalin's architecture. At least one Sports Palace, at least one Cultural Palace, Young Tech Station, you built a volunteer, no. When you call for the elimination of the symbols of the Soviet era, start with yourself and your beekeeper as failures in the Soviet era. And you have a mind that's all you need, by the way, when you're going to Kiev, it's not to build something new, it's to hang a toothbrush from the plaster, destroying the sculptures of the symbols of "Serpa and the hammer." You know, I think you need to read, especially the Rabbit more Freud Lambrazo. And in Odessa, I'm going to say, "Shit already cuts your ranks," and you remind me, especially with some people in the embroidery, one more character, I'm going to repeat. With your slogans, you remind me of one figure standing in an embroidery, but with a naked ass, I'm sorry. I want to give you another example of how unfortunately 14 numbers are my birthday and Cover, you've been trying to get on Krestic for a year and you're not going to get it this year, I'm warning you in Odessa again, we're going to beat your faces if you try to at least heroize those criminals who have already been convicted by the Nuremberg Tribunal. And I inform you that the Anti-Fascist Committee of Ukraine, which, by the way, is a member of the World Peace Committee, will have three important events on that day. First. This is a presentation of the beautiful book of Miroslava Bernick "Walk in a Stranger's Game" Second. A science-practical conference will be held on Ukrainian Nationalism, a source of extremism and national fascism. And third. So we're going to have a big event on the stage that won't let you have your shabbash. One thing I advise you to do is take a twirl, take a bucket, approach the Vatutina monument that liberated Kiev, bow low, and maintain order there, or do as you call it, that is, that is, a Saturday. And in the end, I want to show you an example of what you've done over your years. This is where my colleague Valery Beavles and Sergey Gordienko drove to Vinnicke County. This is what you sell in the markets: symbols of the Fascist era. It's your Yushchenko who likes to go to the markets, including on the left bank, to buy pots of all, yes, tripolian culture, and you're already in open fascist symbols. As a man whose grandfathers fought, like most normal citizens, for Soviet power, for the protection of our people from the brown plague, I will never allow you to be furious again in our holy land, liberated by our grandfathers and ancestors, the soldiers of the Soviet army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u256	I'd like to invite Eugene Volintz, a faction of Communists. He'll be followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u257	Dear President, distinguished voters, respected colleagues! Ukrainians were given the right to privatize rooms in hostels. In theory, every eleven inhabitants of the country had a chance to learn their own square meters, but only theoretically. It turns out that most of the hostels have long had one or more owners who only tolerate these tenants for the good of the mind. Rather than being patient, they try to get rid of them. This was the case in the town of Slavyanska Donetsk region, where the owner of Pavlovslavteshmash and another Slavyanský Horsovjet, on the one hand, had actually lost a number of dormitories in 2004. On the third side, dormitory tenants who have been trying for two years to privatize their dwellings have established a CSOD, but this is not particularly successful. For two weeks they live in a life-threatening and healthy environment where they are virtually surviving from the building by barbaric means. This is the legal response of officials living in warm homes and enjoying the benefits of civilization. According to Pavlovslavteshmash, a letter was sent to the municipality of Slavyanska on 16 August to consider the transfer of hostels located at the addresses of Slavansk Street Koltzewa, 12th and Koltzewa Street, 2a. on a gratis basis in urban utilities. But there has been no answer to this day. Also in August, the management of the company issued Order 100 on conservation, to which the residents of the hostel on Koltzewa Street, 2a was assigned to move to other two hostels, which, after the survey, are not personally suitable for families. The fact is that one residence is intended for the housing of single persons and the relocation of families and is not in accordance with the law. The second dormitory, which is a family-type but does not have enough room for resettlement. Today, the heating season has almost begun and 18 families are in conditions that are uninhabitable and endanger the lives and health of people and especially children. On 20 September, the dormitory on Koltzewa Street, 2a had already been cut off from the heat supply, and on 26 September, the light and gas were shut down and the gas furnaces were dismantled last week. For more than two weeks, people were forced to live in dark and unheated spaces, and now they wander about indifferent to their destiny, begging for a night’s rest, and so forth. Repeated references to the management of the enterprise, to the management of the city, to the mayor of Slavjanska are not understood. Officials simply ignore the plight of their citizens and seem to understand that they have to sit in their chairs until 31 October. I find this a sinister fact for Ukraine, which wishes to live in a civilized and European manner, to request urgent intervention in the situation of the President of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Why the city's leadership simply ignores this fact, and the prosecutor of Slavjanska does not even consider it possible to intervene. Please also check the legality of the transfer of accommodations to the property of Pavlovslavteshmash and, above all, punish all those responsible who have placed 18 families with children on the brink of survival and restore to these people the right to a decent life. Please consider my statement as an official request to the President and to the Office of the Attorney-General. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u258	At the same time, I invite Oleg Láška, the faction “Bloka ulija Timoshenko”, followed by Mikhailo Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u259	Thank you, Reverend Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear voters! I have already quoted today from this high parliamentary rostrum of President Yanukovic, who, literally yesterday at a meeting with the faction leaders, has promised, quote literally: “If there is a strong power, and we are building such a system, there must be a strong opposition. We should not pressure the opposition, the opposition should be able to express its point of view. We must develop institutions of democracy in the country." I support these words by both hands of President Yanukovic. Unfortunately, members of the parliamentary majority who declare their support to President Yanukovic are actually discrediting the President or acting contrary to what he said literally yesterday. As we already know, today we voted on the amendments to the Rules that rule out any puzzles about the rights of the opposition. I would also like to take a particular example of how we have the authority to view opposition. Right now, I should be in the city of Chernigiv district, celebrating today a notable date, 50 years from the day of the establishment of school number three in Priluki. The school principal, and I was on the first call at this school on September 1, the school principal invited me to this celebration. I was ready for this, we even prepared a good present, a sewing machine for girls in this school, so that they could learn from childhood. But unfortunately, the city manager, particularly the mayor of Berkut, the head of the city education department, Klimenko, forgive me in word, forbade the school principal from inviting me to this festival and forbade the scenario where my speech was predicted. [[Both Socialists Are Not Rich]] Thus the opposition gives the opportunity to speak. Furthermore, on September 25 of this year, the famous city of Priluka celebrated its 925th anniversary of its founding. As a national MP responsible for this constituency, to which the city of Primika also belongs, I came to welcome the inhabitants of the city with this holiday. Moreover, in addition to being a deputy, I spent several years of my life as a child in the Pritice Children’s House. And that's why I care about this city, and everything that happens there, as a national MP, I'm trying to help support this city. Thus, by the command of the same berkut and the mayor of the city, I was forbidden to give a welcome address to the accompaniment. So I take this opportunity today to welcome all the inhabitants of this glorious city with 925 anniversary of the founding day, to the city of prosperity, to the inhabitants of this city of grace, to the best of all. And I hope that in the local elections that will take place on October 31st, the accessions will give such a large sum of tea and today's mayors and his deputies who are unable to speak to the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u260	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u261	Those who don't give a chance to welcome the landmen's deputies to the festival. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u262	I would like to invite Michael Wolinz, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. He'll be followed by Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u263	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Politically, the question of the real life of the people of our nation and its social makeup have gone completely to the fore. And yesterday the world was celebrating a day, a global day of fighting poverty and fighting for decent work. What I want to say is that Ukraine today, if you look at Europe, is 42 places from 43 countries in Europe at the standard of living, one of the poorest countries in Europe. What I want to say is that today the authorities are trying to increase the retirement age of our country's citizens. So I also want to remind you that the average age of our citizens' life is 68 years, 68.2 years, and men only live 62 years. Is it possible to increase the retirement age to 65 years, as the authorities are trying to do today? Of course not. But here's the thing. That the wages of our citizens fell by 9.5 percent this year, compared to last year. So the inflation rate goes up to 20 percent. Food prices have increased by more than 20 percent. At the same time, the income and wages of our citizens are declining. What other gift did the authorities prepare for mankind this year? On May 5, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted Decree No. 330. This decision provides for the introduction of the hourly wage, the minimum hourly wage, in January of 5 bracelets, now at the age of 5 - 10, 40 copies. So the employers took advantage of this situation and today they charge people 50 dollars per month to 200-300 dollars, regardless of the minimum wage of October 1st is 911 dollars. Now here's the next one. It is very disturbing that the three members of the Party of the Regions are the authors of the law of the new Labour Code, which is designed to be legalized today, to introduce slavery, official slavery in our country. For example, it is possible to increase the workday to 12 hours or more. It is appropriate to use technical means of controlling workers. That is, surveillance cameras, other technical devices, listening devices that will be used as means in court. Next. We witnessed the rise in population gas prices this year. The Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Ukraine, which I am leading, has appealed to the court, other trade unions have called, and the Party of the Fatherland has also called.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u264	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u265	What happened next. The Federation of Trades, which is headed by one of the members of the Party of Regions, has also applied to the court and on the day of the court hearing has withdrawn its application, and there has not been a meeting. And so there was no court hearing, there is no decision. And people are already paying far higher prices for gas. And that's why, honourable citizens, I have only briefly, very briefly, highlighted the issues that we have to talk about in Parliament today every day, which we have to talk about in businesses, in every house to make our lives better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u266	Before you know it, I'd like to invite Jaroslav Jojik. He will be followed by Andrew School. Guys, let's go faster, 'cause a lot of other deputies want to come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u267	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! As soon as the Supreme Council of Ukraine was in breach of all regulatory procedures, the Law “On Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” was adopted as a whole. Although this document regulates the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the end its adoption in this way will have an extremely important, in our view, catastrophic impact not only on the development of democratic freedoms in our country, but also on the development and well-being of every citizen of our state. Please note to all of us that this document does not contain an item on opposition and its rights at all. At the same time, the opposition in the entire civilized world is an integral feature of any democratic society, because it is the opposition that ensures effective functioning of power in the interests of the electorate, only it can give an objective assessment of the actions of the authorities and in time to make wrong decisions, to offer an alternative to society. This can only be done by having appropriate influences, means of bringing information to society, and means of control. I would like to point out that in recent times there has been increasing criticism from the entire democratic world about the observance of the rights and freedoms of citizens and violations of the Constitution in Ukraine. In view of the fact that this Law on the Rules has been passed, we are risking not only a complete destruction of the preconditions for democracy but also a major deterioration of the international image of Ukraine. Recently, the president of Ukraine reportedly also confirmed the existence of strong opposition in the country. But we see the price of this position of president and the price of this position of today's majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian People's Party has called, and will call, to follow, the opinion of the President's Party of Regions and Coalition, so that the future law on the Rules will necessarily describe the legal status of the opposition, its authority to control all processes in the state. We stress that any reference to the formal absence of the term “opposition” in the 1996 model Constitution does not exclude its existence in the walls of the Supreme Council, even in the absence of a coalition. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party against the conversion of a representative body recognized in the Constitution as the sole source of power into the President's pocket parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u268	I would like to invite you to join Andrew School, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and, above all, our constituents! Of course, after my predecessor's speech on the Rules, I can't help but say that, despite what I don't know -- I understand that this rule of law law will destroy and destroy the opposition, he actually approved the first steps towards the elimination of President Yanukovic's opposition, regardless of what he claims there, he and his representative in Parliament -- but it would still have to be emphasized that we have nine accomplices, most of them members of the Party of Regions, the ruling party. They're people who fit two jobs, they're people who're not sure they're going to stay in their positions, and they're trying to cover themselves up with a mandate not to get rid of jobs, or, if they get rid of it, they think it's a life-saving cycle. It is they who speculate and excite the trust of the people, the trust of society. And actually, I'd like to stop at a situation that happened in Lviv, where the governor is also one of the co-conspirators. In Lviv, it's happening right now, well, it's an extraordinary event for me. On the eve of the great event that will take place there at the Euro - 2012 finale, the fire part is destroyed. In the center of the city, that's the central part, which was in Lviv, knows the narrow streets, the problems of moving, especially the big car, which is the fire, the city center, that is to say, it's virtually impossible to get from the neighborhood to the center. As they say in that anecdotes, by the time they arrive, everything will be burned. But no one cares about this, because there is to be an elite housing built at the site of the fire. Who do you think you are? You think it's an elite apartment for someone. No, for firefighters. I really don't know what kind of relationship these firemen have that can buy a 200 square meters apartment there at about a million dollars, but I'm convinced in the answers that it's going to be a firehouse. Well, even that would be good if it wasn't for the cost and the firemen, including. Because they're going to burn if, God forbid, there's gonna be a fire in that elite building, because there's not going to be a fire engine in there for the time it's been taken to at least put out the fire. In addition, centuries of lipas, the landscape of the city, are being destroyed. Because it's designed to build a three - year underground garage. I want to emphasize once again, the full promotion and coverage of this construction is being done by the Attorney General's Office. Well, I'm not surprised, but on the other hand, what are these people counting on in case of extraordinary circumstances? I'm not sure that there's going to be any buildings around here, and there's a huge number of people living there, there's two schools standing next to one of them, in Polish. So it would be if an international scandal were to be possible. No one is paying attention to that. That's why I want this speech to be a request to the Attorney General's office. I don't know, he's going to be 20, I know what's going to happen without an answer, but he's going to be public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u270	Thank you. I would like to prepare an appropriate request, as mentioned by the national MP, Andrew Schlell. Andrey Pavlovsky, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, will be followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u271	Andrey Pavlovski, the “Fatherland” party. Dear fellow countrymen, many people in our country are now in despair, disillusionment, and each of us can see in his own example how our lives have deteriorated. Because if we go to the shops, to the market, we see prices increase significantly: food, food, 20-30 percent bread, and in Kiev more than 3.20 for social classes, meat, fish by 8-10 bracelets, oil by 3 bracelets, and egg prices have doubled in the last week. And that's because they're increasing substantially by 80 percent and more of the price of vegetables, which in the fall, after the new crop, should fall, but they're increasing. Potatoes are already in some regions up to ten bracelets, Greek by 15. As of July, gas prices continue to rise. And that's what the authorities of the Party of Regions, the authorities of Janukovich, are doing, they're raising us double the price of rent, electricity, utilities. And this is because more than ten million pensioners get pitiful pensions -- less than a thousand dollars -- when they break the law: four million budget holders don't get, they don't get paid 300 dollars by the government of Azarov, and qualified doctors, teachers don't get 500 dollars. The new Tax Code will destroy three million entrepreneurs in small and small businesses as a class. During the reign of Yanuković, the number of the poor has officially increased by 10 percent in our country. And according to official UN data, there are almost 80 percent of people in our country outside of poverty. Sooner or later, this antinational, antisocial policy will lead to mass indignation and dissatisfaction, leading to mass protests. Clearly, then, the oligarchic clans want to see a dictator in Yanukovich’s face, who will force national protests by means of an iron fist of dictatorship. It is understandable why they have so quickly destroyed the Constitution and given dictatorial powers to Yanukovic, why they continue to destroy the opposition, destroy freedom of speech, and impose fines on 20,000 journalists because they fear the words of the truth. I think Ukraine will be revived, but it will be revived after this criminal occupation regime of Yanukovich goes into oblivion. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u272	I would like to invite John the Rabbit. He will be followed by Vitali Korge, the faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u273	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! It has been enough time to evaluate the activities of the governing authority, the President, the government and the parliamentary majority, the Party of Regions, the Communists, the “Lituinian Block”. There is no good from this authority and there will be no, for these political forces are doing nothing to revive the economy, create jobs, increase wages, ensure the spiritual recovery of the nation. All of this power has been going on for nine months just for the authorities to be usurped by the rematch, anti-government, anti-Ukrainian forces. During the election, they promised to bring Ukraine to its well - being and, in fact, lead citizens to poverty. Because wages and pensions don't come at a price hike. But they continue to lie and promise that it is the fault of the previous authorities. This power implements the policy of destruction, all that makes the state strong and all that makes people happy. Here are some examples that support this conclusion. First. The governing authority has renounced the principle of compromise, the principle of reconciling the interests of the various political powers in the formation of power. Contrary to the Constitution, the President, the Party of Regions, the Communists, the Block of Lithuania in Parliament formed a coalition of carcasses, which has cleaned everything out of the Rules that ensured the opposition's activities. This authority has opened up a real manhunt. It's already been released, it's said, about 50,000 citizens from occupied positions for quite some wild reasons, you don't want to join the Party of Regions, you want to go to local elections from another party, you get out. This paralyses the public service, weakens the state to ensure that unskilled personnel, often tried, come into power. Third. The governing authority implements the policy of fires regarding small and medium - size business. Wasn't it the authority that had made it possible for the Ukrainian people to pay $5 billion to the French and Moscow oligarchs under Stockholm's decisions. Where do you get these dollars? They wanted and wanted to take them both from small and medium-sized businesses. So they destroy this activity and destroy them. Four. This authority declared war on the Ukrainian nation because it wants to destroy the Ukrainian language as a national language. For this purpose, the Law on Languages, edited by Simonenka, Ephraim, Greenewecko, was introduced into Parliament. But that's not enough. They also want to wipe out the entire history of the Ukrainians. Thus, the public today is concerned about the process of decommissioning the country’s leading museums by disposing of legal premises. This is the Museum of Historical Treasures of Ukraine, the National Museum of National Decorative Art, the National Museum of Theatre, Music and Cinematography of Ukraine, the Museum of Books and Book Printing of Ukraine, and the issue of the removal of the National Military. [[branch office of the National Museum of History of Ukraine]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u274	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u275	The museum. Ladies and gentlemen, you saw what was done with the Kiev Museum when it was evicted. The same will be done with this museum. The art arsenal projects are being buried today. For, you see, we have a President, and a government has emerged, and a greater one has come to believe in the church, so they believe that they are ready to destroy the history of our people by giving these facilities to the Moscow Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u276	I would like to invite you to join Vitalia Korja, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u277	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues of the Ukrainian people's deputies! Now we're looking at the “Variance”, which many people consider to be secondary trifles, not worthy of attention. So I want to draw your weight to such a “minor thing” as responsibility to God. [[in quotes]] The word “God” is written in capital letters. This is the word that begins with the Gospel of John. At first there was a word. And the word was God. The word that became flesh and settled among the people in the image of Jesus Christ, who brought us redemption. And even though this is a big word, we put it into the beginning of the Constitution of Ukraine, we can't hear it in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is neither the word “God” nor the veneration of God’s truth. And this is when we read in the Preamble of the Constitution the holy words: “Aware of the responsibility of God, of our own conscience, of the previous, present and future generations. Is the member of the so - called coalition who now calls himself the majority aware of their responsibility to God? Your own conscience and all generations of Ukrainians? Do they respect the truth? And the truth is, after this year's presidential election, they've brought about a constitutional coup, and now they're eliminating an independent Ukrainian state and building an oligarchy dictatorship under the Kremlin scenario. Is God’s authority for their legislators? And they carry out the basic law of God, the ten commandments? The moral level of most deputies is not to be talked about, and their almighty god is money. And that's why the anti-national policy of the Donetsk clan over three months in Ukraine has created an unprecedented increase in the price of goods of primary importance, particularly food products, which is what is produced in Ukraine. In closing this, I would like to quote from this point of view the phrase of the Dalai Lama, “My authority here in Tibet is boundless, that I am only a prisoner of my duty, because the more power a person is given, the more power he should give to those over whom he is placed.” I advise the majority to think about their responsibility to God and their responsibility to those on whom they are entrusted, for accountability to God is what I consider to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u278	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u279	For the responsibility before God, I suppose, is not different, not secondary, but principal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u280	Before inviting Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, his colleagues gave him the opportunity to speak for six minutes. He will be followed by Stanislaw Argewittin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u281	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I will begin with what I did not want to begin with. Some are pissed off by my embroidery, which is the offspring of those who moved the temples in my Fatherland, and I, George Carmazin, rebuilt them both in Odessa and in the Sumsten, and in Kiev and in Donetsk, in Lugansk and in Crimea, have rebuilt those temples, and I am about to rebuild them. The adults who did not know or read this work tried not to offend me, and they wanted to offend the Ukrainian people who invented the embroidery and wore it for centuries. For there is not one cross that is not found on the Communists, there is a thousand crosses, and there is a man’s work, and there is a man’s sweat. Therefore, to the underage ones, I say, dear ones, do not move the country today, shake your hands and remember that we live in Ukraine, and we build a republic, not incense. And to those who helped build incense, the Constitutional Court brigade I address the question that I ask you, Mr. Chairman, to address as a parliamentary request to the head, so far as that institution called the Constitutional Court, and I think the time will come and it will be estimated that this brigade has made a decision of 16 people, because two have the honour. So far, they have not informed the public, society about the submission of 54 national deputies on the conformity of the Constitution with the Judicial Act and the status of judges. Why the judges are running from the courts today and we released 115 judges yesterday, this decision was registered on August 30, 2010, more faithfully. However, there is no information available on the Constitutional Court site, and all the lines provided by law have expired. I want you to be known as the authorities today oppressing the defenders of the country. In Dnipropetrovsk another October 4th, Decree No. 66 registered as candidate for the city’s heads, Segi Sevrikov. Do you think you've posted the order, or have you announced the order number nine? No, they didn't, they didn't! I'm calling the C.V.C.C., Mr. Shapoval, and please consider this a parliamentary request to you, come on! I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvin, to protect the law concerning the two-time National Deputy Viktor Josephovich Rzwadowski, the Black Tribe, the warlord in Afghanistan, the Lieutenant General of the Police, who has been illegally released from the militia and has not implemented the rulings of the courts. I ask you to consider this my request to Minister Mogilov, Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Prime Minister of our State. Ladies and gentlemen, I am paying attention to you and to the serious disadvantages that are being done with respect to the implementation of the 2004 Constitution and the 1996 Constitution, and, surprisingly, this is in violation of the position that I have placed in this Constitution, this is what we wrote in article 49, where everyone has the right to health protection and medical care, which is what the Bahtiev National Deputy has been talking about today, and medical insurance. In public and municipal health institutions, this aid must be provided free of charge, and the existing network of such facilities cannot be cut short. That's what I wrote, Yuri Carmazin. And strangely enough, after 14 years of operation of the Constitution, in Kharkiv they decided to shorten and destroy the TB dispenser. And that's at a time when in Kharkiv, 73 people have 100,000 people. I'm going to remind people who don't know what an epidemic is when it's over 40. So I believe that everything is done by Mr. Dobkin, Kernis, in order for the Ukrainian people to die, there are only 20 beds left for those who are now deprived of their will. I don't think so, and those people don't have the right either, and we don't have to let them get sick. Today, we listened to the kuts of the report on what progress was being made in the village. And I'll remind you that the reason for the price rise is that there's no spending on supporting the agricultural sector in the country. These are the reasons for the price rise. The reasons for raising prices are also uncontrolled spending money in circulation. Almost a month ago, I announced that on September 1st, money was printed, and bonds were issued for 61 billion dollars. All this time since September 1st the machine works day and night and they don't want to tell the bankers at the National Bank, they don't want to admit it. This is the reason for the price increase. Why does Azarov not want to go out and say so? And I say, “Mr Janukovic – Stop Azarov”. I understand that we have to stop Azarov, we have to stop him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u282	Finish up Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u283	We need to stop the printing press to maintain the purchasing power of every Ukrainian citizen, and to keep Ukraine in general after this bulldozer, which is now following Ukrainian legislation. And to conclude, let me welcome all the lawyers with a bright holiday to be bright is Jurist's Day. But the lawyer who enforces the Constitution obeys the law and serves primarily in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u284	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you and our guests that the Supreme Council is working in the hour for the “Variable” mode and that only those MPs who pay attention to the problems of modern political life and the corresponding problems that are attached to them in the districts are participating. I give my word to Stanislav Arzvetin, followed by Yuri Gnatkevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u285	Dear Cossacks-brothers and all the Ukrainians who live in the soul of a true Cossack spirit! A few days later, on October 14, Ukrainian Cossacks and all of Ukraine will celebrate the Festival of the Blessed Virgin, the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks and the 20th anniversary of the revival of Cossacks in Ukraine. I would now like to think of the Cossacks, the first Cossacks to begin this movement at the time of independence -- the Gehtman Vijacheslav Crnovil, then Vladimir Savievich Mulja, John Bilas, Victor Andrievich Yushchenko. Speaking in this room, I would like to point out that the Cossacks before this festival have one good news and one bad news. With regard to bad news, on August 11, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine abolished the concept of a national programme for the development of Ukrainian Cossacks, which envisioned a comprehensive solution to the current problems of the current Cossack movement. According to the concept, a pooling of the resources of the state, local communities, Cossacks, scientific and educational institutions to preserve and promote the historical and cultural heritage of Ukrainian Cossacks, to improve the system of youth education, to strengthen and consolidate Cossack organizations to work together with executive power and much more. Now for the good news. Meanwhile, a group of national deputies has completed their work on a new version of the Ukrainian Law on Cossacks and Cossacks, which was registered in the Supreme Council a few days ago and more precisely on October 4th. This bill sets out clear principles for the organization of Cossacks in Ukraine, the state policy for the development of Cossacks is also the Department of Cossacks in the Cabinet of Ministers, the Council of the Ottomans of the President of Ukraine, the status of Cossack Organizations, the status of the state register of Cossack Organizations, delegated by the State to the All-Ukrainian Cossack Council, is eventually settled by the symbols of Cossack Organizations, Cossacks and Cossacks. A specific set of issues on which Cossack organizations cooperate with the central local authorities, the defined concept of “soccer service” and many others. This bill has four representatives. I wanted to thank them separately. This is also the national deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of the Supreme Council, and Vejacheslav Boguslaev, Jaroslav Suchy. And I am deeply convinced that really every Ukrainian is a Cossack in the soul. And I think it'll be a good gift for Ukrainian Cossacks Day. And I think we all need to work together day by day, step by step with our daily actions, as it is written in our anthem. We must show that we, brothers, are a Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u286	Thank you. Greetings to the feast, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u287	With the celebration of you, Cossacks-Brothers! Ukraine’s Glory
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u288	Yuri Gnatkevich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u289	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - Parenting Party. And I welcome all our Cossacks to the feast. We have just returned from the meeting of the “Educations” Main Council with my colleague and friend Paul Silent. The main refrain and thought at our meeting was that all Ukrainians in Ukraine and democracy were declared war. And war, it's mobilization. And our opponents mobilized, as we can see, very well. And today we have decided that it is necessary to mobilize all members of the Enlightenment, to mobilize all Ukrainian patriots against Russian chauvinism and its manuals. Dear colleagues! Well, Internet readers know, and apparently they don't know the interesting news yet. That, at the suggestion of the Communist faction in our Parliament yesterday, the relevant committee of social policy decided to recommend amendments to the Labour Act and to return by November 7th, the Day of the Yellow Socialist Revolution as a public holiday and a weekend. You know, respectable colleagues, I'm not surprised by the communists. Because it's their holiday, their youth, some past beliefs. Although they're a little bit surprised. Because the main ref of the October revolution was class struggle, exploitation, words like bourgeoisie class, proletariat, proletariat dictatorship, popular masses. Today's Communist colleagues, these words, this terminology was completely thrown out of their lexicon. The truth is, they use the word "oligarchy clans," but it's interesting that it's with those oligarchic clans that we really have, and they replaced the class of the big bourgeoisie, that they made up most of them. I would say that if Lenin had listened to all of this, he would have called them “revisionists and renegades”, as he once called Kauccik. Comrade Stalin would shoot them all, first them and then us. Let's not forget that. No one prevents them from going to Lenin’s monuments, carrying flowers, and speaking in the press. I am surprised by the capitalists that they have gone to an alliance with the Communists on this issue and want to impose on us a holiday that is not in Russia or Belarus anywhere in the world. I'm the head of the subcommittee in charge of compliance. about conflicts, about avoiding conflicts, I say to society that celebrating this holiday will cause tension, and tension is the way to conflict. I call on the Party of Regions and the Block of Lithuania not to support the return of this holiday to our country at our meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u290	Before you know it, I invite Paul Silent. It will complete our hour of the “Variance, ” please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u291	Dear Nicholas Grigorovich, distinguished deputies, distinguished radio listeners! I can’t help but dwell on the subject that was on the watch today when we consider the problem that was brought to our attention during the meetings of the Chief Council of Enlightenment. I cannot vote on the crucial point that today is imposed on the whole society that the bilinguality of Ukraine, which - Russian - Ukrainian - has evolved historically and is an important acquisition of the Ukrainian people and a powerful factor in the consultation of Ukrainian society. This is a black humor developed by well-known analysts of the Russian world and signed by Ephraim, Simonenko and Greenewetsk, two traitors of the Ukrainian nation. What is the Soviet depravity of former cosmomol leaders, and of today's Chevaliers, who can't understand that this law is turning Ukraine into a zone of long-lasting instability, that they are reaching for the very essence and the nation of Ukraine. The linguistic asymmetry resulting from the sequential destruction of Ukrainian-speaking space has been particularly different in the last 10 years, when this issue has been artificially introduced in the regional policy of the Party of the Regions, and today it is being discussed. A few words about statistics. In 2000, Ukraine spent 3 billion 195 million budget money on maintaining Russian - language facilities. Russia to the Ukrainians is none, though 15 million live there. In Ukraine, 779,000 Russian students are studying Russian at general educational institutions, and 1 million 300,000 are studying Russian as a subject. A million and a half Russian textbooks were printed. In Russia, Ukrainian needs are zero. And it is on behalf of the National Committee for the Protection of Ukraine that I am authorized to read the address we make: “Let us defend the language — we will save Ukraine! We urge you to come to the Sofia Strip at 6 p.m. for 30 minutes and stop the attack on Ukrainian language and our national independence. You know that the Supreme Council has registered the Language Act, initiated by the Party of the Regions, the Company and the “Block of Lithuania”. This bill is aimed at introducing a regime of total disintegration in Ukraine and is therefore a tool for the destruction of the Ukrainian language. If you remain indifferent, your dignity will be sunk, and your country will become a colony of Russia, where you will be considered a second-class man, and your children will die in imperial arms adventures. Let us stand together and demand the authority to withdraw from the registration of the anti-Ukrainian bill."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u292	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u293	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Instead, take decisive measures to introduce Ukrainian into all spheres of social life in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine.” And the next. We're going to celebrate Ukrainian Language and Writing Day on November 9. And we urge everyone to take it in a protégé wave, this very day where the Ukrainians don't live: in Ukraine, in Russia, in Canada, in America, in all countries, in all continents of the world, join the Ukrainian wave, protect the Ukrainian word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-08-m0.u294	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are finishing an hour for the question “Victory”. Just as we end up not easy for Parliament, for Ukraine a week. So let me remind you that next week people's deputies work on committees, commissions, and factions. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, October 19, at 10 a.m., and on Monday, October 18, at 11: 00 a.m., the Conciliation Council will take place. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
