ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:47]] There are 284 cards of Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 21 January 2010. Thirty-seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review of 12 laws, 1 draft decree was adopted on a basis, 1 bill was sent for re-reading, 3 bills were returned to the committee for re-reading, 8 bills and 1 draft regulation were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law is aimed at furthering the committee. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to announce parliamentary requests. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Danilenko to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the provision of free medical care to a three-year-old child – Zkratovi Hani Vitaliyevni – Ministry of Health, the Sumo State Administration of Ukraine, the State Institute of Otolaringology of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine and the involvement of guilty persons in responsibility. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:02:45]] For-138 Request not supported. Jury Stac to the President of Ukraine on the five - year wait for Ukrainian society to investigate the murder of journalist George Gongadze. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:24]] For 184 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:03:42]] For 249 Request accepted. Boris Petrova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund on the provision of the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to social protection, the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Children of War and valid court decisions on payment to citizens belonging to children of war, state social assistance. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of land, forest and environmental legislation in the town of Butch Kyiv district and the detection of corruption by officials of local self-government and prosecutorial offices. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Prime Minister on the illegal actions of the State Inspectorate for Price Control to withdraw his conclusion on the calculation of economically sound planned costs for the production of residential services. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister for the cessation of the issue of land rights in the land area on Mount Klimentiev in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and for the declaration of the territory of Mount Klimentiev as an object of the natural Command Fund of Ukraine. Vladimir Sovkovic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the Ecobud limited liability of the use of budgetary resources during the 2008 flood recovery work in the Chernobyl region. Eduard Prutnik to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the verification of the facts presented in the collective address on behalf of the disabled persons in the region of Montenegro and the need for appropriate measures to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the right of Ukrainian citizens to receive social and important information from such a source of broadcast as the main radio. Leonida Litvinova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of local budgets from the state budget of Ukraine under the Economic Classification Code 11-34 in January 2010. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the artificial bankruptcy by officials of the National Shareholder Company Nadra Ukraine, a subsidiary of Poltavanaftogasgeology and the alienation of the property of this enterprise for the benefit of private persons. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister for the development of a government programme to support farms involved in the cultivation of medicinal plants. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts presented in the address of citizens of the Bill of the Church of Kiev, concerning the violation of Ukrainian legislation in the construction of a high-rise building – “Main complex for visitors”, which led to the destruction of residence number 3 on the street of Olesia Honchar in the town of Bila Church. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent an environmental disaster in the city of Kallus Ivano-Frankiv. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the inappropriate response to the request of the National Deputy, ensuring the execution of the Prime Minister's mandate to ensure the equality of working conditions of all forms of ownership. Valerija Baranov to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources for Dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request from 30 November 2009 “The need to bring the Ukrainian State Committee and Land Resources Order 133 of 16 March 2009 into line with the requirements of land law”. Victor Olijnik to the President of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine on the need to provide State support to the State institution “Science Center for Radiation Medicine” of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Vladimir Matweyeva to the Minister of Economy of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the State Price Control Inspectorate. Gennady Zadirka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on formal and incomplete verification by the Ukrainian Security Service of information regarding the violation of the legislation on the state border of Ukraine by officials of a limited-liability association, the Nibulon Joint Undertaking and the violation of the procedure for the provision of information held in state ownership and of economic value. Grigory Smituha to the acting head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the situation surrounding bankruptcy and the violation of the property integrity of the Kyiv State Enterprise Izumrud. Gregory Smythuch to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the refusal of the Ukrainian Security Service to carry out a parliamentary inquiry into the responsibility of the heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other officials involved in the activity or intentional actions that have caused considerable damage to Ukraine’s public interests and territorial integrity. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the urgent release of the residents of Seminowna, Chernigiv district, from the U.S. Department of Health reserve. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the desirability of re-establishing article 40 and article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on “On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance” as amended by the Law of 27 April 2007. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Health for the creation of artificial barriers to the introduction of new cancer drugs in Ukraine. Oleg Malič to the National Bank of Ukraine on the legal and regulatory framework for the temporary management of the public shareholders association “Shared Commercial Bank Kiev”. Helen Bondarenko to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide an answer to the complainant. Oleg Tishchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of Ukrainian law by the resident of the village of Dnipropetrov region of Dnipropetrov. Sergey Moshak to Minister of Interior, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, to prevent the free movement of vehicles in the area of Lviv Tolstoy Street, 57 in Kiev. Groups of national MPs to the Minister of Interior, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the appointment of a review on the implementation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of Playing Business in Ukraine in relation to media reports on its numerous violations. [[Koleczenko, Smituch, Leluk]] Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of a light car to the State Automobile Inspection of the region of Novgorod-Siberia. [[The mosquito, Samofalova, Pavlovka]] Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the gross violation of Ukrainian municipal property rights, the legality of collecting from the citizens of municipal services, the improper exercise of duties by road services regarding the clearing and processing of roads and the streets of district centres, the use of measures to eliminate violations of Ukrainian law and regulations and the restoration of consumer rights of residents of Ukraine. Andrija Škila to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal acquisition of parts of the premises and the illegal use of the land business “Budevrostil”, which has resulted in the destruction of the historical heritage. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the adoption by the Zacarpathian District Council of an anthem of the free song of the Russians "Pedcarpathian Russians", which is directed at its separatist content against the integrity of the Ukrainian State. Lilia Grigorovich and Mikli Kulczynski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Prosecutor General of Ukraine on criminal delay, improper examination, incomplete and unbiased investigation by the law enforcement authorities of the region of Kiev and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev of fraud, Alexia Glushka, in the establishment of a sewage network in the area of garden societies, “Budziłnik”, “Zodky” and the use of urgent measures to address this issue. Vladimir Matviyeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal appointment of officials of the state-owned company Mikolaiwiska Seaport. Elina Shishkina to the Attorney General on the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal about the events surrounding the closed stockholders' association “International Shareholders’ Aerospace Company“. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Attorney General on the need to restore confidence in State authority and to bring criminal responsibility to those who took office in public authorities by criminal means. Igor Kaletnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ensuring that the facts of abuse of power and overstepping of official powers and for attracting the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Mikli Oniszczuk, to criminal responsibility for the existence in his actions of the signs of crime provided for in articles 364, 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney-General on the inaction of the prosecutorial authorities to repeatedly appeal to the labour force of the child company Poltavanaftogasgeology regarding the illegal actions of officials of the National Shareholder Company Nadra Ukraine aimed at leading to the artificial bankruptcy of the subsidiary “Poltavanaftogasgeology” and the alienation of the property of this enterprise for the benefit of private persons. Alexander Volkova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to a parliamentary request for a situation that occurred in an accident in Kiev on the street of Žiljanska No. 114, which threatens the life and health of the inhabitants, and for the pressure on applicants and provocations that were made at the Shevchenkov District Attorney’s Office in Kiev instead of considering the matter in substance. [[of 1973!]] Peter Pisarczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine before examining the decisions of the Jovkow City Council of the Lviv Region regarding the legality of land allocation. Peter Pisarczuk to the Attorney General on the non-payment of salaries since 2007 at the Lviv Municipal Repair and Construction Company. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for failure to perform the tasks of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and for failure to respond by the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai district to a parliamentary appeal regarding possible misconduct by officials of the Mikolai City Executive Committee. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the failure to carry out the mandate of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the failure of the Prosecutor-General's Office of the Mikolai district to respond to the MP's appeal for possible illegal actions by the Director of the Society with limited responsibility “Mikolaiov Project Design Centre”. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of investors in the Ukrainian Financial Union. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a detailed study of the reasons for the bankruptcy of the credit union “All-Ukrainian National Credit Society”. Sergio Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the improper performance of his official duties by local authorities and municipal enterprises in the city of Kyiv. Jury Stac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation into the murder of journalist George Gongadze. Vladimir Pilpenka to the prosecutor of Kiev for the protection of the rights of shareholders in connection with the raider’s admiration for the leadership of the Open Shareholder Society Kyivmishk headship of the Society’s property. Vladimir Yavorowski to the prosecutor of Kiev for the responsibility of officials who granted permission to cut down hundreds of trees in front of the “Child World” university near the Darnica subway station and to stop further barbaric destruction by the city of Kiev by the city of Kiev. Sergija Vlasenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the extension of the deadline for consideration of appeals by national deputies regarding the alienation of the property complex of the Open Shareholder Society Sinteco. Sergija Vlasenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the extension of the deadline for consideration of appeals by Ukrainian national deputies. Alexander Shepeleva to the city’s Kiev head on urgent measures to improve the operation of the city’s municipal and road services. Oksana Bilozer to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the involvement of the management of the Union company in committing a number of crimes during the operation of the solid waste range of the Remote Careers. Thus, the distinguished national MPs, spoken 30. 74 parliamentary inquiries. Dear people's deputies, there was a request to the President of Ukraine, I'll read it again. To the President of Ukraine regarding the violation of the requirements of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the provision of free medical care to a three-year-old child, Crater Hani Vitali, Ministry of Health, Sumsky District Administration, State Institute of Otolaringology, Colomaychenka Academy of Medical Sciences, and the involvement of those responsible. When I voted in favour of the request, they only supported 138. Why not go back and consider this question as to the child’s health? We have to vote for the return, don't we? I will put to the vote a motion for a return to the parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:19:05]] For 307 We're back on request. I would like to vote in favour of this request. Please vote. [[10:19:24]] For 308. Supported 308. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:19:45]] For 310 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions, a recess should be announced for interfractional consultations. The factions are the Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Yeah, I'm gonna call it a night? A break of up to 10 hours is announced for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that two factions would be required to take a break. Time's up. Please, who will make the statements? Sergey Mishchenko, BUT faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u3	Statement of the faction “Blocca timoshenko” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the end of the second session, the faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" was forced to state: the Supreme Council of Ukraine failed to fulfil its primary duty – it did not ensure the legislative level of honest transparent and open elections of the President of Ukraine. The BUT faction repeatedly demanded that the bill be considered over the week, which included amendments to the President’s Election Act. The first round of presidential elections on January 17 was demonstrated by the fact that the current Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine is a major flaw. The Party of Regions took advantage of these shortcomings on the day of the vote. They were carefully designed and prepared for mass forgery, a violation of electoral legislation in the first round. It was just a rehearsal of the massive forgeries that the Party of Regions planned to apply during the second round of presidential elections. Victor Yanukovich now has only hope of falsifying the election results. Today, the situation has been artificially demonstrated that it is no longer technically possible to adopt the law and put its standards into practice. Also this week, the BUT faction demanded the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the situation of the illegal possession of Viktor Yanukovic of the State residence “Mježirja”. There was no legal basis for delaying the establishment of such a TSC in Parliament. There are 150 people's deputies' signatures, as required by legislation. The draft decision on the creation of the ICC for the Interigree was on the profile committee for 2 months, but it was never considered. In view of this, the BUT faction claims that the legal requirements of our faction are being grossly ignored. We see no point in participating in today’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have any thoughts on this matter, I would like to ask the faction leaders to present their point of view in a moment. Please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." None. Then the faction of communists, please, then the regions, then Oleg Zarubinsky and we will continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u5	Thank you, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Knowing the reporter, his profession, and his qualifications, I wouldn't want you to make that statement, Sergei, because you're a prosecutor and now you're just dropping charges that no one's ever confirmed. If you had a court ruling, if you had any such arguments, you wouldn't have even made a case, and you were acting as a prosecutor with such accusations. It's a shame you were asked to read this. We've been back and forth tens of times, and we've argued, of course, that's the situation. The only thing I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is knowing that a recent decision has been made in connection with the new members of the High Council of Justice, I think this question is not included in the agenda, so let's take an oath today, let's let the people work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Mikhaylo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u7	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It is unfortunate that the political power of the BIT, which declares as pan-European values and the intention to integrate itself, is actually trying to do everything exactly the opposite. But let us reject the views of Ukrainian politicians, but there were tens of hundreds of representatives of European political parties who monitored the holding of elections. And as a result, there was a press conference, a briefing, they said publicly that these were the most democratic elections, that there were no violations of the law, that there were no violations of the law, and then they said that it was only in Honduras or in the thumbu-jumbu tribe that could change the law ten times in the election process of the chief of the tribe, yes. No normal European country changes the procedure. In the context of the election of the Presidential Act, the first stage was fair, transparent and democratic. Don't change the law, you'll lose anyway, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u9	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, since there are so many discussions, media reports on the administrative resources in these elections, voter bribery, counterfeiting, and now this has been the case, the relevance of the draft ruling, which was issued on 20 January 20th, “On measures to ensure the authenticity of the election results during the election of the President of Ukraine” on 17 January 2010. The draft decree states: “The Central Electoral Commission will take steps to ensure that the voter’s election results are credible, including a recalculation of the voter votes in the respective polling stations, as well as a selection review of the information, the minutes of the district election committees. ” [[on voter participation in January 17th]] And that makes all the claims come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u10	Respectable national deputies exchanged their thoughts. Regarding the proposals made in the claim made by the BUT faction regarding the law and the TSK. If you insist, let's finish our consideration of the question, but yesterday we didn't finish our consideration of the question. I will put once again the vote on the return to the agenda, the draft law amending the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[Honorable Fellows, Listen]] I'd only ask my fellow dignitaries not to blame anyone, the law is yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, you didn't support any suggestions. But if there is such a position, let's put once again to the vote, let's find a common position, a common point of view. As far as the TSC is concerned, I showed you yesterday, my distinguished colleagues, that everyone wrote only their own names, even though they were called. You can't do that. You've all understood that. Is the process necessary? So you have the opportunity for each one of you to speak and talk about your problems. This is a problem for the government, let the government make the right decision on this issue, and then there's the problem of the courts, why are you bringing the Supreme Council of Ukraine into these divisions of yours, what are you getting involved in? When you agreed to create a coalition, you didn't have that problem? What morals are we talking about, what claims do you present to me? The next point is about Adam Martinyuk's proposal. Let's finish our consideration of the issues, these are all proposals, let's make this decision, and there are appropriate references. So now let's finish our consideration of a law that we didn't have time to discuss yesterday -- this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation on migration. Please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Gnatkevich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, prepare for Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I've been so afraid to press a button on the performance by the faction, I'm speaking from myself and, rather, from our committee. Because I was constantly accompanying this bill. I regret that yesterday our Supreme Council did not take a decision to discuss the concept of State migration policy. It's very sad. Dear colleagues! Back in the old days, migration problems were in the competence of the State Security Committee. This was seen as a public security issue, nowhere to go, nowhere to go without the permission of this structure. And the border forces were subordinated to this system -- the KGB system. But the KGB, hopefully, won't come back, there's pluralism and democracy. Dear colleagues! In the context of preparing this work, I went to Brussels, and I went to Berlin, where I discussed the problems of migration policy with the people involved. I was in Brussels, which is almost like Brussels, where very liberal politics is being pursued, where probably more black people who resemble Arabs than the Brusselsians themselves and the inhabitants of the country. I saw prisons in Berlin where illegals were being removed. I wish I could go to a prison like this. Unfortunately, we do not have such prisons where it would be so comfortable to stay and live. And we're not ready to accept as many illegals as we do today. I was in Canada, and I saw Ukrainians who had moved there in recent years. They live there very well. They create conditions, but Canada does not take all Ukrainians. I tried to go to Canada with my niece, to the relatives of the elderly with whom I wanted to see her for the last time, maybe not to let her go because we said we weren't sure you weren't going to stay. But those Ukrainians I saw left them there. Because they showed their high qualifications, they presented them, and they gladly accepted them. I've come to the conclusion, dear colleagues, that the policy of the Western world in the immigration field is liberal-practice policy. But pragmatic! They use for themselves people who can work for them. In Berlin, as I was assured by the Deputy Oberbürgermeister, an extremely beautiful woman, who does not look like a German, is so beautiful that she may even be more beautiful than our Prime Minister, but she told me that in Germany, 1 in 9 is 1 in 9! - He's not German anymore. I'm saying are you afraid of that? She says we're a little scared. So, dear colleagues, we need to stop our practice of liberal and actual politics, liberal and factual. Therefore, the end must be put in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u12	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u13	I invite all of you today: I invite the nationalist gentlemen who are staying in the room, I invite Communist comrades, I invite the capitalist gentlemen, especially, I ask Michael Chechchev and I turn to his left hand to support this bill today, because this is our Ukrainian bill. Because last time you let your fellow Smith down, you didn't support him. I hope for our rational position and for Ukraine's protection in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u14	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u15	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that yesterday, when the political upheaval began, we did not consider the law that I have been trying to bring to you for two years -- how much the concept of State immigration policy is needed, its main directions. I would like to say that, on a political level, we have to recognize that the priority of Ukraine is precisely that of determining the forward-looking or unrecommended settlement of migrants in the territory and the populated areas; to determine what policy we will pursue, the national policy that is being pursued by all European countries today, or the policy of fully-opened doors with the filling of the city of Kiev, Odessa, Kharkiv, all markets of foreigners that we do not manage, they are directing Ukraine today and they are deciding where to live, how much and how much of our budget is spent by the people of Ukraine. It's too bad we didn't pass the law yesterday because we didn't put it in the agenda. I think that we will fix this situation later and thank my colleague Smithu for his article in yesterday's newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Thank you for the bill, I think it should be supported in the first reading, why I say, in the first reading, there are a lot of problems under this law, and there are a number of changes to the actual legislation that he proposes to introduce, he suggests, in particular, amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, colleague Gregory, you're not a specialist in this, I'll just tell you a few things. You propose to supplement the Criminal Code with article 332 with the badge 1 “Illicit movement of persons across the state border of Ukraine”, and at the same time suggest a new edition of article 332. Furthermore, according to article 332 with badge 1, it is intended to be criminally responsible for equipping owners or drivers of vehicles with specially hidden or masked places used to transport legal migrants. But I remind you that these actions should be qualified to prepare for the illegal movement of persons across the state border of Ukraine and need to be complemented by a new article 332 with a badge 1 simply does not exist. It just doesn't have to be because it's all settled. We were settled when we considered the codex and then asked the State Border Service. I ask you to adopt this law in the first reading and call for the adoption of our collective with the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u16	Finish up. You're done. Oleg Zarubinski is invited to the presentation, and Mikhailo Papiev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u17	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, yesterday at the meeting, I presented or expressed the position of the committee, a positive position on the adoption of this bill as a basis, but now there are some nuances, as a representative of the faction, as a national MP, that I would like to highlight or highlight them. Well, let's have some irony. I can't go to nationalist lords, Communist comrades and master capitalists, because it's not a matter of communists, nationalists and capitalists, it's a matter of national security, but it's a question that's affecting the vitality of Ukrainian citizens. Because everyone understands that the problem of illegal immigration is an additional serious burden on Ukraine's social and other infrastructure. Appropriately, this is a pressure that is negatively reflected in Ukrainian citizens. And as for funding the issue of readmission, for example, at the expense of Ukraine's state budget, and for financing these, for example, illegal migrants' shelters, and for sending Ukrainian citizens to their country of origin and so forth. So it seems to me that today, especially given that the socio-economic situation around the world is getting worse and worse and that it will lead to and produce and already produce a much more visible increase in migration processes, including illegal migration. We have to respond to that, of course. And one more detail. Everyone understands that it is much easier for illegal migrants to use the territory of Ukraine as a transport corridor when our citizens understandably, not for free, but for mercantile reasons that help illegal migrants. And so the introduction of punishment, where criminal punishment against those people is correct in terms of law and law and in terms of sanity. [[And all of them know without exception that they're committing a crime, they're just making money on it.]] And I like that it's for foreigners to be expected first of all to take administrative action. I think it's humane enough from the dock of Ukraine. In support of previous speakers, I will say that in preparing for the second reading a number of points will need to be worked out, and the first reading can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u18	Mikhail Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I am grateful to the national MP, Mr. Smithyuhu, for introducing a bill that regulates some of the legislation on migration. You know, there are huge problems in this issue, which today are not only about legislative imbalances, but also about the reality of our present power. So let's look at what happened in international relations with Ukraine for five years. In fact, we've all been told that the European Union will make a decision and send a message to Ukraine about the possibility of future membership in the European Union, which is what the European Union will now decide on the introduction of a visa-free regime with Ukraine. But Ukraine has done virtually everything: we have introduced a visa-free regime, we have the corresponding losses of Ukraine’s state budget, because today citizens of other European Union countries enter Ukraine free of charge. Ukraine has also ratified the Agreement on readmissions, which has become effective, and Ukraine has made a commitment to Ukraine’s State Budget, the first to accept illegal migrants from the European Union, to support Ukraine and to repatriate it. In order for this agreement to become fully operational, it is necessary for Ukraine to conclude bilateral agreements that are concluded with most countries of the European Union today, but not all of them. The next question we're being told about today is the Association Agreement. In fact, the beautiful name “Association Agreement”, but the internal content is totally not in line with those tasks and what citizens of Ukraine are expecting today. Because in this agreement, it consists of four parts, there is no even theoretical possibility in this treaty today, there is no theoretical possibility of acquiring Ukraine's membership in the European Union. In addition, there is no road map in this agreement because before the other countries of the European Union introduce a visa-free regime, as was the case with Serbia, a road map must be signed. In fact, today Ukraine has given up all its positions and has completely lost its diplomacy with the countries of the European Union. I'm convinced that the newly elected President of Ukraine is handling all these issues, we're going to have an equal relationship both with migration, with illegal migrants, and with migrant workers. And I would ask you all to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, who else insists on participating in the discussion? Please sign in. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Tedeev, faction of the Party of the Regions. You don't? Please, John the Rabbit. There's Tedeev, please. Who? Bondiku? Valérie Bondick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u21	Valery Bondick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I understand that the Supreme Council has relaxed somewhere, but this law is vitally needed, and only on the grounds that there are really concepts in international law such as the “system of restraints and opponents”. If some foreign embassies treat our Ukrainian citizens as citizens of third countries, even in international law our foreign minister needs to do the right thing. We've heard about the visa-free regime for our citizens, we've heard that we're getting closer to the European Union, but it's not in practice. And there's another aspect I'd like to say. You know, the cornerstone of international law is the inviolability of its borders, it's international sovereignty. But when citizens of another state come to the election, as if a friendly state, an Orthodox state, but it's a special service from 25 to 45 years old, I think by using the presence of the Deputy Attorney General here, one and the other, I'm addressing you. Dear Deputy Attorney General! We need to put an end to this international practice. International observers came to visit us for the election, not from Georgia. Thank you for your attention. And the law of Smitch is absolutely necessary, and we must vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u23	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u24	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! It would have been better if we had adopted the Migration Policy Conception Act yesterday and formed legislation in accordance with this Law. But if the Supreme Council has failed to do so, it is clear that we are to adopt the bill in the first reading today. What is in this bill? The main focus of this bill is on regulation at the legislative level of the relations that are being created around the border. But we have to understand that this is very small because they've crossed the border -- and they're starting to, these people, live in the Ukrainian society. And here we have terrible things coming. We have the militia covering all these passages, the settlement of all these people. We have local authorities doing the same for all of these things. And we're creating entire colonies of people with a foreign culture, with a foreign language, with non-traditional diseases, are drug traffickers and so on, and so on and so forth. Therefore, further work on this bill needs to be done to strengthen criminal responsibility and create conditions so that within Ukraine, these people do not behave so unpunishedly. We're told, it's very hard, we're a European state, we need to demonstrate liberal approaches. So if we look at the legislation of European countries right now, and especially national parties, we're going to see that there's very strict regulation of migration processes. The same Italy: They introduced additional criminal responsibility for the use of illegal migrants at work, for the provision of services, and so forth. So I'd like us to look at this problem not only from the point of overlap or non-crossing of the border itself, but how these people are already integrated or not integrated within the society itself, which makes power right inside the society itself. So, from my point of view, it's time for us to show our national will. Ukraine is not a doorway. Ukraine is a state. We have to create conditions so that there are jobs for our citizens, that our citizens don't leave their country and go abroad because their places are being squeezed by migrants. That is, we are in favour of regulating these processes, but to regulate them, not on the basis of liberalism, but on the basis of such rigid conservativeism. Then we'll have a protected area, then we'll have Ukrainian protected space. Otherwise, we'll wash our nation away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u25	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues and respected voters, I asked the rapporteur yesterday: Why is the Government of Yulia Timoshenko doing everything to turn Ukraine into an emigration outpost? I got the answer that, you know, the President's supposed to be responsible for foreign policy. Sorry, they stood together in Maidan for five years, both Yushchenko and Timoshenko, and swore together to the Ukrainian people that they would pursue the foreign policy course that was in accordance with Ukraine's national interests. Now they're moving away from each other. Excuse me, this, Yushchenko and Timoshenko are Siamese orange twins, brother and sister, these are two orange boots. And we in the people know that if a pair of boots or a pair of boots were bought, one shoe was worn, one is not thrown out on a garbage can, and one is not left behind, and one is thrown out of a pair of boots. We've already dropped one orange boot on the first tour of the political junkyard, and on the second round, we'll throw out a second orange boot. And then there will be a proper foreign policy course. But there's not enough government. Turned around. Tymoshenko is in Ukraine's migration slump when it's unclear who, then every epidemic, children get sick, it's not clear what's going on in the country, there's a growing crime. That's how they started transporting fighters, yeah. You think about it, they're bringing in fighters, and now the film that's become public, the press is writing about it, telling it, saying it, the country knows it's resentful. This power will bring us down to ruin. Thank you, therefore, for having been a member of the Party of the Regions, George Smith, who has drafted a bill that will at least protect Ukraine's national interests in this part. I think it's radically changing, literally, in a few weeks. Including the foreign policy course, we will be conducting one that will give economic and political dividends to Ukraine, not to a group of people who are at the top of the power pyramid. But these timers will soon be gone and will be gone forever from the political scene of the country. The Party of the Regions therefore invites all of you to support the bill in its first reading, as it is indeed in the country's national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we need to adopt this bill, Your Honor. Well, we have to take it. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on migration. [[Registration number 2232]] Please vote. [[11:21:14]] For 230 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision has been taken as a basis. On December 17, 2009, a nationwide conference of prosecutors was held in Kiev. The conference, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 13 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, appoints two members of the High Council of Justice of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Viktor Pavlovich and Pshonku Viktor Pavlovich. In accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, before taking office as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For this reason, we have appropriate references, letters from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Viktor Viktorovich, is invited. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? That's not the law we have in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u28	I, the Kudriwats of Viktorovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u29	Congratulations. [[Applause]] To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u30	I, Pszenka Viktor Pavlovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of members of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u31	Welcome. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! We have two factions calling for a break again. Maybe you'll make a statement if you need it, and then we'll shut down if we don't have any objections. That's what I said. Two factions, on the other hand, call for a break — the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communist Party. So if there's a statement, let's make a statement. And then we close the session. National Deputy Irina Akimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u32	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It began in 2010. As soon as the holidays ended, 12-13 of them all noticed that they had come back with a tax check. A business venture has begun again. And that's not surprising. 2009 ended with an empty execution, with enormous pressure from the debts received. And we need to fill this up. At the Pension Fund, there's an open hole of 13 billion. Pensions have begun to detain. There's no money. The victim, as usual, becomes a business. Let us remember how Timoshenko's business and orange power went in 2009. 2009 could be called the year of desecration and war with business. The accumulation of huge VAT debt, which has increased almost fourfold. Accumulation of advance payments for profits, which increased by 1.7 times. The question is, how could small and medium-sized enterprises survive not only in these circumstances? Let us remember the forced overstatement of the import value that had to be defused. This blow was inflicted on a large number of small entrepreneurs who were unable to work. Let us remember that in 2009, every nine of the ten tax checks ended with fines. Let us remember that business has been subject to so-called voluntary contributions for various activities by the Government. These voluntary contributions have reached nearly ten billion rubles. And let's remember another number. The Tax Code had not been adopted, and the number of tax changes by the Government had increased sixfold. The question is, how can small, medium, large businesses work in this environment? Working hard, surviving even harder, tax and regulatory burdens are increasing, and the Government is not helping. Instead of helping the domestic producer, Timoshenko proposed to increase imports. Let us remember the cars that were proposed to be purchased for disabled persons through the WAZ. Let us remember that for FAAs, imported equipment was purchased instead of attracting our manufacturer. Conclusion one: 2010 should put an end to this divide, the end of the invasion of business. And the only hope here is the Party of the Regions programme, which offers a reduction in tax pressure for all, tax breaks for business, fair and equal rules for a large, medium and small business, regardless of the political interests of its leaders. Programme of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u33	Finish up, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u34	The Party of the Regions programme on the relationship between business and State are the cores around which both entrepreneurs and all political forces who want civilised enterprise development in Ukraine must unite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear National MPs, Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u36	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, you may have pointed out that we have the first Deputy Minister of the Interior present the second day. There is no point in the law that we should be considering right now. I say, let's take a brief look at this bill, because there's something to do. I think we'll do a good job. Please put a motion to vote on the reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u37	National MP Carpuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would also like to point out that the bill on the approval of a state-wide primary health care programme under the principles of family medicine is now included in the agenda for 2010-2011. Procrastination with the adoption of this law has a very negative impact on health financing, and I would ask all political forces to mobilize and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, there is a request, let's look at the bills: registration number 4728, as Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk said, and 4769 colleague Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich said, with a brief procedure, we will consider them. Is there no objection? I'm asking you to support this proposal, and I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote. [[11:29:33]] For 202 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the mandatory conduct of audits for the tasks of special departments in the fight against organized crime and the provision of information on their requests]] Rapporteur of the First Deputy Minister of the Interior, Bedrikovsky Vladimir Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u40	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a respected Ukrainian national deputy, is proposing a bill to the parliament to improve the legal regulation of the response to organised crime in the economic sphere. This is primarily about the need to strengthen public financial control by the Audit Service through the conduct of pre-planned audits of economic operators. Existing reasons and procedures for conducting such audits do not provide for the possibility of prompt and effective verification of information on organized crime in the economic sphere, and therefore an inappropriate response to it. In many cases, this actually makes it impossible to implement the special division of the IMF and the Ukrainian Security Service of the powers defined by the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime. In particular, part of the mandatory execution by the Audit Authority of the special departments responsible for carrying out audits and checks. Under the valid Act on the State Audit Service in Ukraine, out-of-the-way audits of economic operators who are not assigned to control agencies are carried out by the authorities of the State Audit Service only after a criminal offence has been committed. The decision to execute them shall be taken by the court on the basis of the filing of a prosecutor or an investigator. This poses significant obstacles to documenting economic crime, as there are problems in conducting an audit in connection with the need to check information on the study of such crimes before a criminal case is committed. After all, it is well known that it is virtually impossible to break a criminal case in the case of a special division of information on financial abuse in the field of farming without an act of documentary examination that reflects the damage caused to the interests of the State and the person who caused it. As a result, we have an absolute paradoxical situation: a criminal case for misusing public financial resources requires an appropriate audit; and a criminal case needs to be investigated in order to carry out such an audit. This closed circuit leads either to a violation of the law, or to staff members of the special unit who are forced to close their eyes to the financial breach that has been discovered, knowing that they are to be documented.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u41	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u42	As a result of such a coalition, on the one hand, it is impossible to quickly obtain and identify evidence of organized crime in the economic sphere, and on the other hand, criminals have the opportunity to hide or destroy traces of such activity and to avoid liability. That's what this is about. These include crimes that are at the core of economic crime and corruption, multimillion-dollar theft by organized groups of budgetary resources and state property. In view of this, it is proposed that the law provide for the possibility of carrying out ex-mission audits of economic operators by the Audit and Audit Service, and for a criminal case to be prosecuted on the basis of a well-founded submission of a special unit to combat organised crime by the IMF or the BSS. I would like to stress in particular the two key points of this novel, first of all, the right of such an initiation to conduct an audit is proposed to be made only by the special division concerned; secondly, the final decision on its execution, in all cases, will be approved by the court. In addition, it is proposed to refer the special divisions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the BSS to the notary of entities to which information on certain notarial actions should be provided as a matter of service. Taking into account the lack of regularity in the legal order of interaction between special departments and customs authorities, the bill provides for the introduction of appropriate additions to the Customs Code of Ukraine. To our conviction, the amendments proposed by the bill are legally sound and essential to ensure an effective response to organized crime. Clearly, some comments may be made. As part of preparing the bill for second reading, we are ready to cooperate with the profile committee on each of them. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u43	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Igor Kaletnick, head of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is one of the reasons why the bill was drafted, according to the initiator, is the difficulty in obtaining information. Supplementing the Customs Code with article 26. According to the initiator of the bill, it should detail the existing order of interaction between customs authorities and special departments. At the same time, article 26 of the Ukrainian Customs Code provides for customs authorities to interact with other authorities in accordance with established legislation. Therefore, such legislation is a special law on the legal basis of the fight against organized crime, which is established that the customs authorities are involved in the fight against organized crime. The status provides for the respective duties of customs authorities, including the provision of information to the special departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Board of Auditors. In addition, the provisions of the Customs and Criminal Procedure Codes provide for a clear mechanism of reporting by the customs authorities of law enforcement authorities in the event of the detection of signs of crime. Therefore, the bill does not contain the principle of new regulations that can have a positive impact on the state of the fight against organized crime, but they impose an additional burden on the legal framework. The draft law also deprives the authorities of the right to refer to the court for the purpose of initiating pre-planned exit audits of economic operators irrespective of the form of ownership. Instead, the right to refer to the court for such audits, apart from the prosecutor or investigator, is also granted to special departments. In the Committee’s view, the mechanism for broad involvement of CPR units would make it impossible for them to carry out their direct duties, such as carrying out audits on facts unrelated to organized criminal activity. The increase in control facilities, which is likely to take place at the expense of non - state enterprises, will lead to an increase in the burden on the CIA. It's going to take an increase in the number of people, and then it's going to take an extra significant budget. In addition, the practical implementation of the bill will increase the possibility of administrative pressure from law enforcement authorities and control authorities on conflicting subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u46	The general concept of deregulation of entrepreneurship. And third, that's the main thing. It is proposed that the special unit be given the right to receive information on notary notary actions on their written request. This is about the fact that article 8 of the Notary of Notarial Mystery Act will be revealed for the presence of an appropriately operational search case. You and I understand very well what this will accomplish for relevant subjects and citizens of Ukraine. Thus, the committee, after considering the draft law, proposes that the bill should be returned to the initiator for further processing. This is the same conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear national deputies who insist on participating in the discussion, please sign up. If they insist, please. Draw a nickname on the board. Oleg Zarubinski and Gregory Smythuch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the head of the Main Committee of Profiles, is in principle an exhaustive assessment of the bill. There are certain dangers and, frankly, this raises the question that they are trying to settle for the second time what was not settled four years ago, or five years ago. I would like to remind you that this bill is proposed for the second time, starting in 2005, to address the issue of legal regulation of the order of appointment and the carrying out of an inventory audit and other similar measures for the task of law enforcement authorities. So I remind you that on February 16, 2005, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the legal protection of citizens and implementing mechanisms for implementing the constitutional rights of citizens to entrepreneurial activity, personal integrity, security, respect for the dignity of the person, legal assistance and protection became effective. In accordance with this law, a number of legislative acts have been amended in 2005 to regulate the activities of law enforcement and control officials. In fact, this law is not implemented today. Because it says it should be implemented in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There is no such thing today. So I'm looking at this as another additional attempt to implement what was already possible. I'm inclined to support the head of the profile committee. I think the committee has made the right decision on what this bill should still be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u49	Gregory Smudge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I pressed the button that I would vote against this law for only one reason. You know, if we had law enforcement agencies, including the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we really had honest bodies that were actually working for the state and the citizens of Ukraine. I would like to remind myself of so many of these few examples, and of the very large practice that is now in Ukraine. What is it? You remember the question raised in the commission of inquiry, which Sovkovic reported on the question of illegal interrogation authorized by the Attorney General. You remember that tens of thousands of people were being illegally listened to. You remember that there are illegal R & Ds, and we have statistics: more than 15,000. These include specific people, specific businesses, their families, and so forth. You remember that one ORD or one investigative case may be involved in an unplanned or so - called motivated inspection of dozens of enterprises that are, say, interconnected entities. Inter-economic activities. Of course, if we did not have such gross violations that you and I were here almost every Sunday to listen to the temporary commission of inquiry, these questions could certainly be allowed and extended. But unfortunately, to a fair, so to speak, the approach on the part of the internal affairs bodies and the difficult state of those enterprises that are currently engaged in any kind of activity in order to get the country out of that pit, I think it was premature. And one more question. You remember that even politically motivated orders may be included on this issue. Because there's some kind of information, there's some kind of operational-questioning thing that's in place, and there's some kind of inconvenient thing. Please take the tests, check, check the hospitals. Of course, there is an electoral process, an abuse, perhaps one person or another, but it cannot be transformed into a mass order. Opening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u52	By upholding this law, I believe that we will not improve the lives of our businesses and people, but rather make it worse and give not always fair opportunities for internal affairs. So I ask you not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u53	Paul Zebravsky, microphone, please. Please, you can come out of the rostrum. From the rostrum, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, this law cannot be upheld. Indeed, corruption that thrives in Ukraine today does not allow for serious trust in controlling authorities. Business is a society hairdresser, it's those who create added value, it's those who pay taxes, including the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts and so on. We're giving a huge tool today. Last night they tried to give Finservice and Fincontrol a huge tool in hand, today there's an attempt to get such a tool from the IMF. I'm convinced that during this kind of ruin that there is; during the meltdown that's in our heads, the less we give tools to control bodies that don't cause, including parliament, trust in society, the easier it will be for business and the economy to develop, pay taxes, maintain social infrastructure. We're not helping the small and the medium.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u56	Instead of helping them, we still impose on them and make them dependent on controlling authorities. I am convinced that there will be no vote in favour of this bill within the walls of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The Committee's conclusion is to restore the subject's right of legislative initiative to work. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 4728]] Please vote. [[11:44:42]] For the The bill was not adopted, so it was rejected. Can I re-read it? Since the support of respected colleagues is small, it is clear that it will not be supported by this bill, the bill has been rejected. I'm announcing for consideration the draft Law approving the National Programme for the Development of Primary Health Care in Family Medicine until 2011. The reporter is Deputy Minister of Health Poor Valery Grigorovitch. And the co-reporter is Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich. Let's support this document, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u58	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Distinguished People's Deputies! The adequacy of the development of the primary health care development programme is due to the fact that the deterioration in health, the high mortality rates of people of working age, the reduction of the average life expectancy, the inequality of access to health care in rural areas primarily leads to an objective increase in the needs of the population in health care, which the existing health care system is unable to meet today. Therefore, the purpose of the proposed programme was to reduce the level of disease, disability and mortality of the population, to create conditions for effective functioning of the system, to give the population affordable high-quality primary health care with the introduction of the principles of family medicine. The main objectives of the programme are: to develop legal and organisational principles for the functioning of primary health care; to establish a network of primary health care facilities on the basis of family medicine; and to ensure that they function effectively; to improve the material, technical, human and financial provision of primary health care facilities. The adoption of this programme will help improve the resource provision of primary health care facilities, improve the effectiveness of primary health care institutions themselves; and create a system for making the population accessible. quality health care at the primary level; improving the social welfare of health workers. The total cost of the programme for 2010-11 is 259.3 million dollars at the expense of the State budget. Of course, the program has the right to include local budgets in the development of the program. The implementation of the programme will create conditions for effective functioning of health facilities that provide primary health care to the population, provide primary health care facilities with medical equipment and transport equipment according to the equipment table, improve staff provision, and provide primary workers with primary care.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u59	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u60	With a place to opportunities and social security. I ask the MPs to support this bill and vote it, considering that the short term is 2010-2011, and to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u61	Thank you. If it brought more deputies into the session room, it would be okay. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Karpuk, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care reviewed the draft Law approving the National Programme for the Development of Primary Health Care for Family Medicine until 2011, from 04.07.2009, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and designated by President Viktor Yushchenk as urgent. [[Registration number 4769]] The bill provides for the formation of regulatory, financial and economic, organisational and material and technical mechanisms for the functioning of primary health care in urban and rural areas. The main objective of the programme is to ensure that disease, disability, and mortality are reduced by providing accessible and high-quality health care to the population. The total amount of funding for the program is 259.3 million dollars, including 100 million dollars in 2010 and 159.3 million dollars in 2011. These funds are intended to target the acquisition of medical equipment and specialized vehicles for urban and rural health facilities that work on family medicine. The program will increase the demand for health care in family medicine by 5 to 7 percent every year, so that the rate is 50 to 60 percent in urban and 65 to 80 percent in rural areas. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The committee proposes to accept the selected program as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-22-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting the vote to the vote? I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. I'm going to make a proposal to the adoption committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's okay. the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Act "On the Approval of the National Programme for the Development of Primary Health Care in Family Medicine for the period up to 2011". Please vote. [[11:50:45.]] For 252 [[Applause]] The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the calendar plan we have approved, we are now concluding the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. The agenda for the session included a review of 1 thousand 395 bills, including the State Budget Act 2010. During the session, 279 laws were passed, as approved in the first reading of 36 laws, 146 were converted, rejected and withdrawn, including 34 of which were revoked and returned to the entities of the legislative initiative. We have adopted 125 decisions on organizational issues in the section of the legal entities of the legislative initiative, 15 bills have been considered by the President of Ukraine, 95 from the Cabinet of Ministers and 169 from the national deputies of Ukraine. Obviously, they could and should have worked much better, given that out of the 52 plenary sessions, including four consecutive sessions, ten sessions were blocked. If we can get out of these calculations, the Supreme Council didn't add, as it were, more than 40 drafts to the plan, which is a significant percentage of what we might consider as a session. We spent much of our plenary time on bills that we didn't get support from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of these, virtually all the bills have been introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies. This tells us that we work hard for a basket, that is, for a leisurely walk. The most widely accepted is a session of laws prepared by the Committees on Budget, Law Enforcement, Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. At this time, there are 1,619 drafts on the Committees of the Supreme Council, including 117 preparing for the second reading, indicating that we have a large portfolio of bills for the next session. Our work is getting complicated by the absence of an established programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and the absence of the 2010 Budget. And I am convinced that before the presidential election is over, we need to adopt the country's budget. And it's pretty obvious that this is going to be our top priority from our next session. Now for the committee's work, for the sake of thought. During this period, we had just 197 committee meetings, where almost a thousand questions were considered. Compared: 306 committee meetings were held during the analogous period of the third session, during which the 2016 issues were discussed. The efficiency of committee work has decreased by more than a third. For example, if the Committee on Transport and Communications held only one meeting. And with regard to the quality of the drafts, your honorary colleagues, we often have bills glued to how the quality of the drafts is affected by the lack of effective cooperation with the President, the government and the judiciary. I would ask the heads of the committees to fill the vacancies that are on the committees today, particularly in the Committee on Legal Policy, that the positions of the first deputy and deputy head of the committee remain vacant. The Committees on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, on Transport and Communications, have not yet chosen 7 and 8 subcommittee heads to organize the work accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a draft of our work plan for the next session. I would very much like it to be done so that we can establish the order of the day session at the opening of the session on the first Tuesday of February. And, of course, it's very important for us to keep the work configuration and work during this period. Because it's obvious that they're about to begin the process of rocking the Supreme Council of Ukraine because many people are going to be demobilized, they're going to need to find employment, and where to find it, not in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's up to us to do everything we can to get the Supreme Council back to work and to restore trust in people. Otherwise, the situation will be extremely difficult in the country. And the fact that the level of the Supreme Council today is extremely low in the eyes of people in terms of trust is understandable to all of us. Dear National Deputies! I declare the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin its work on Tuesday, February 2, 2010.
