ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:51]] The 423 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on July 1, 2010. 43 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration: 21 laws and 10 regulations were passed, 1 bill was passed on the basis, 1 bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, 8 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Dear colleagues, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement made, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the coalition of MPs “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call of Kurilo Vitali Semenović. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I have a staff matter to consider, including those proposals made by the National Deputies regarding the release of a number of officials. It is suggested that we do so, fellow believers. He has to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to report on personnel issues. I would also like to ask the deputies there to prepare for the consideration of these issues. In the meantime, allow me to announce my parliamentary questions. Is there no objection? And then we'll move on to human resources. You got it? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Danilenko to the President of Ukraine for the celebration of the day of the fleet of Ukraine at the same time, one day with the Day of the Navy of the Russian Federation. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[10:04:13]] For 101 Request not supported. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end. In the end, we'll come back. Irina of the Coast to the President of Ukraine regarding the raiding of state property - non-residential premises of the Kyiv Central University, addressed: Bogdan Hmelnicky Street, 2. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:03]] For 132 Request not supported. Kirila Kulikov to the President of Ukraine for the non-derogable destruction of the World Cultural Heritage sites located in the city of Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Kirila Kulikova. [[10:05:30.]] For-50 Request not supported. Roman Zabzaluk to the President of Ukraine for not responding to a parliamentary appeal about possible illegal actions by individual officials of the Mikolai City Executive Committee and the Mikolai City Council. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Romana Zabzaluka. [[10:06:03]] For-95 Request not supported. Mr. Oliynik to the President of Ukraine on the illegal interference with the activities of the Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Sivkovic, and the inability of him to assume the post of head of the Inter-Ministerial Commission on the issue of combating illegal occupation and capture of enterprises. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:41]] For-61 Request not supported. Vladimir Moysik to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the head of the Johno-Frankow District Authority. Mikhail Vishiwanyuk and the heads of the Colombian District Authority of the Ivano-Frankiv region of Mikhail Negric for organizing the raiding of the best alcohol industry in the Ukraine of the Involuntary Spirit Plant. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:20]] For-55 Request not supported. Boris Tarasyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the proper level of funding for the construction of the Ukrainian college in Sevastopol. Valery Baranov to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Seminozhenko on the unsatisfactory state of implementation of the Act "Pro resorts" in the territory of the State-owned resort "Berdansk". Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation at the Solotvinian Solar Company of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine and at the Ukrainian Allergy and Regional Allergy Hospitals of the Zakarta Region. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine, for the payment of debts from employees of enterprises – participants in the construction of mine No.10 "Novolinska" Volinska District. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problem of providing quality drinking water to the areas of the Fifth District of Dnipropetrov. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for repeated statements by Prime Minister Mikolia Azarov, that Kiev-Pecherska Lavra should be transferred from the protectorate of the Kiev City Authority and handed over under the care of the Government, the national deputy twice submitted an appropriate draft ruling to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, but the Party of Regions headed by the Prime Minister did not give a single vote to resolve the problem; therefore, the national deputy was concerned that the Party of the Regions was coming out of control of her head. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with Ukrainian law on victims of Nazi persecution in part of pension payments and state financial assistance. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister on the need to strengthen the mining system in the country's coal companies. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of the city of Lviv for the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster in June 2010. Paul Movcan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the renovation and restoration of the Taras Shevchenk Museum in the Shevchenk National Reserve according to the creative designs of Vasil Krichevsky. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal eviction from the creative workshop of the Laureate Shevchenkov Prize-named Taras Shevchenk Valerius Francchuk. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the catastrophic collapse of the sectoral programme of construction and reconstruction of Euro-2012 roads in the Volin region. [[Kirilchuk, Oily, and others.]] Andria School to the Ministry of State for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the elimination of the fire part in the central part of the city of Lviv, contrary to the Ukrainian Minister's statement on emergency issues and on the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the intentions of building 11 additional fire depots in preparation for the Euro-2012. Valentina Matvieva to the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, Attorney General for the protection of the legitimate rights of shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association of the Cominformsystem of Kiev. Valery Bondick to the Head of State for the gross violation of the constitutional guarantees of the National MP and the formal response to the MP’s appeal. Vasil Gureev to the Head of the State Department of Ukraine on the execution of penalties for the inaction of SIZ 15 officials in Simferopol, which is the failure to provide adequate medical care to the citizen of Irina Kuprianenko and the failure to investigate her in court. Edouard Prutnik to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the need to consider the appeal of a retired woman, resident of the village of Lisov Nižin district of Chernigiv district of Lubomira Andrusko to ensure the possibility of rehabilitation after an oncological operation in a sanatorium. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the purpose of responding to the Ukrainian Head of the Security Service to a parliamentary request for pressure and intimidation of the administration and students of the Ukrainian Catholic University by the Ukrainian Security Service, in order to prevent students from participating in peaceful protests, which is the first sign of the beginning, the beginning of the resurgence of the Cambodian times, where it is said that the Ukrainian Security Service carried out measures "to warn students of this institution of actions which could lead to violations in the area of State security"; therefore, the National Deputy raises a question as to how Ukrainian Catholic University students by their peaceful demonstrations are violating State security. Gregory Smythuch to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the appointment of a check in connection with reports by the Ukrainian media about the receiving of Romanian passports by Ukrainian citizens. Igora Savchenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of the abuse of office by officials of the Brovarsky District and City Council of the Kyiv region. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the Chernigiv Region on the need to verify the information provided in the collective appeal for the signature of 70 employees of the Bahmach-meat company of the Bahmach region of Chernigiv region, and on the application of comprehensive measures to protect the social rights of citizens to pay their salaries. Leva Biruka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation with the children in the village of Kobeljaka Poltava. Leonida Litvinov to the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine for the provision of financial assistance to a separate unit called the Gorilovska Executive Directorate of Mine Disposal. Leonida Litvinov to the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine regarding the purchase of coal from the private coal mine "The Light" in the Donetsk region. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on measures taken by Ukraine to lift the visa regime with the countries of the European Union. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Transport and Communications aimed at eliminating the shortage of railway tickets in cases and measures to improve passenger access to the services of the Crossroads. Oleg Polishchuk to the first Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the Society's limited-liability activities, which could create environmental hazards and bring negative health effects. Oleg Tishchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the complaint of citizen Mikhail Ritikov about the improper execution, according to the complainant, of individual employees of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine of an international investigation commission. Alexander Schepeleva to the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of taking measures to eliminate the effects of the landslide in Chernivka and the threat of human life. Roman Zabzaluk to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the consideration and resolution of the issue of the transfer of a talented young nation to a budgetary or free form of education in higher education institutions. Sergey Gordienka to the Ministry of Health, Attorney General, on the need for an immediate thorough examination of the circumstances of the death of a resident of the village of Solonitsa Lubenski district of Poltava district of Oleg Sivolaz during an operation at a local hospital. Sergei Gordienka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the need to assist the law enforcement authorities of Lubna in carrying out thorough investigations into the circumstances of the sale, bankruptcy, misappropriation of municipal property. Sergey Pavlenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the corruption of officials at the Cerka State University of Technology. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Lviv Court of Appeal to ensure the implementation of the constitutional right of the inhabitants of the Danube area to a safe environment, to verify the facts of the illegal economic activity of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Centre of Innovation and Building Technologies" which leads to pollution of the environment that threatens the life and health of citizens, to take appropriate measures of response. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the State Architectural Control Inspectorate in Lviv Region to the facts of the destruction of the building on the street of General Chuprinka, 5 in Lviv as a result of the reconstruction of the basement premises with violations of building rules and regulations. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the application of measures to establish the circumstances of the death of a citizen of Dmitr Yaszczuk, who, according to a version of the law enforcement officers, was hanged in a detention cell of the Holy See District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, to examine the facts of the involvement in the alleged incident of a co-worker of the Department of Drug Trafficking, to establish the truth in the case and to bring the guilty persons to justice. Jury of Lithuania to the Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the abuse by representatives of the local authorities of Shepetovka Hmelnicka District. Vladimir Kozak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the Society with limited responsibility for the CP Central Market and the territory of the Ozerka market in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, and systematic concealment of crimes by local law enforcement authorities. Eugene Zarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the constitutional rights of employees of the Open Shareholders Association of the Scientific Research Institute of Special Methods of Casting in Odessa. Eugene Kzarykov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the act of vandalism regarding Lenin’s monument in the city of Reni Odessa. Igor Jereshka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of officials of the Darnick garrison military prosecutor. Igor Jereshka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of violated rights, legitimate interests and the enforcement of law by some officials in order to end crimes on their part. Leonidas Isaev to the first deputy attorney - general of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to criminalize persons who contributed to the capture of the state property of one of the houses in which the Medical Rehabilitation Centre for Children with Somatic Diseases of the Ministry of Health has been located since 1946. Mr. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the unlawful actions of the official, the Director of the State Enterprise Jurkovetski Spirit Plant, who have signs of a crime envisaged in article 218 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with the requirements of current legislation by the Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk District Council and the Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk District State Administration in the rental of land in the villages of the town-type Gulf and Sergiyvka Odessk. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the facts of the possible fictitious bankruptcy of the State-owned company Jurkovetske Spirit Plant. Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures of prosecutorial response to the illegal decision of the Lviv District Council of May 25, 2010 "To commemorate the Days of the Memory of the Victims of World War II". Saint-Piscoon to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the conduct of illegal acts committed by the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexander Steshenko, in the form of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of human beings. Sergey Greenewecko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the house of the Pleškov family in Odessa. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of decisions taken by the authorities and local self-government of the Bilgorod-Dniestrov region of Odessa. Irina Herashchenko and Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the groundless change in the management of the Kyiv Children and Youth Education Institute. Olga Gerasimük and Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory examination of parliamentary appeals to investigate a criminal case involving sexual harassment of a minor priest of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate of the Volovetsky district of Zakarpatsk. Andrew Pinchuk to the first deputy head of the Kiev City Administration, Head of the Shevchenkow District State Administration of Kiev, head of the Kiev City Bureau of Technical Inventory and Property Registration for Real Estate Property Assignments. Vasil Gureev to the head of the Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol regarding the inaction of the Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol regarding the fair trial and protection of the rights and interests of citizen Irina Kuprijanenko in court for charges brought during the anticipated periods. Oksana Bilozer to Kiev City Head, Director General of Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation, for the improper organization of repairs on the capital's roads, such as the conduct of such works in peak hours, resulting in inconveniences for citizens and threats to their lives and health. Thus, only 70 questions were put out by honourable colleagues. I put to the vote six questions to the President of Ukraine who did not receive support. In accordance with established tradition, I will put to the vote a motion to return to the consideration of the questions that are proposed to be addressed to the President of Ukraine. I'm voting for a motion to return to the request of Vladimir Danilenko to the President of Ukraine for the celebration of the Day of the Navy of Ukraine at the same time as the Day of the Navy of the Russian Federation. [[10:23:21]] For 234 We're back to the question. I now put to the vote a motion for a request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:23:47]] For 247 Request accepted. The factions, please. faction of the Party of the Regions – 171, Block of Timoshenko – 20, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 7, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 19, non-fractional – 3. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] And, dear fellows, I now place my vote on the motion to the President of Ukraine. We're back, we're back, we're back on course. About sending this request to President Ukriana. [[10:24:32]] For 241
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u2	Yes, there is an offer, dear colleagues, to return to the consideration of the matter. To return to the question of sending a request to the President of Ukraine, colleague Irina Brzezhnowy. [[10:25:09]] For 239. All right, 239, we're back. I'm putting it to a vote, now you'll hear, and I'm voting for a motion to support Irina Banka's request to the President of Ukraine for the raiding of the state property of the non-residential residence of the Kyiv Central University, addressed to Bogdan Hmelnicky Street, 2. [[10:25:45.]] For 245 Request supported. I'm voting for a motion to return to the request to the President of Ukraine, Roman Zabzaluk. [[10:26:22]] For 115 Not supported, dear colleagues. I'm being told that the Irina of the Coast were supported, supported. But there is still a vote to be made on the question. That's why I'm putting to the vote the proposal to ask Irina Bréžany to the President of Ukraine about the raiding of the state property of the Kyiv central university's non-residential premises. [[10:26:57]] For 251 Decision taken. There is a proposal to return to the request of Ukrainian President Kiril Kulikov regarding the failure to destroy the objects of the world’s cultural heritage located in the city of Kiev. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:27:25]] For 109 Not supported. There is a proposal to return to the question – a request to the President of Ukraine for unlawful interference by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine and the inability to embrace the office of the Head of the Inter-ministerial Commission on the issue of opposition to illegal capture and capture of enterprises. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:28:04]] For-83 We're not back. The same proposal is to go back to the question of the President's request for discharge from the occupied posts of Vladimir Moysik. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:28:32]] For-72 We're not back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u3	Honorable fellow workers, even on request? All of it. This resulted in 70 parliamentary inquiries. Dear colleagues, as agreed yesterday, including at the request of opposition factions, we will today consider some of the personnel issues initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers and directly by the deputies. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine on the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers on personnel issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u4	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, offer the release of Boyk Viktor Alexiyovich from the post of Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u5	Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister. Three minutes, please. Dear colleagues, please, the names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u6	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Mr. Prime Minister Mikola Janovich, we have a question. In this ministry, they've been very serious before, and now we know that there are problems in the areas too, because people have been assigned, not by such qualified approaches, but only by some personal interest, perhaps by a party, I don't know, maybe by mercantile interests. So do you foresee a review and a staff policy that has been carried out in this ministry, the distinguished Mikola Janovich, and all the subordinate structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u7	Due to the change in the Ministry’s administration, appropriate personnel changes will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u8	Yeah, next question is Michael Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u9	Dear Nikolai Janović, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the human resources policy of the Cabinet of Ministers has been understandable over the past many years: when the focus is not on party interest, but primarily on the professional level. But on the other hand, we are well aware that the demands are very high today, and a very serious task needs to be done. Sometimes the desire to work, the Minister, is not adequate to his professional level. And here we really need not try to protect our own – it also honours the Government – but objectively make a decision, a person can give another place to work on his shoulders, and here we can put the person who is truly able to work and meet the requirements of today and the level of tasks that have been achieved. I think the Cabinet of Ministers is on the right track. And such self-critical conclusions, when one wants but fails to succeed, are transferred to another place of work, not to say that one can be off the team, but a stronger person is made, that's absolutely right, that's the truth of the state decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u10	Yes, please, Mikola Janovich. It's just like it was, then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u11	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Mikola Janovich, of course, many of the heads of the ministries in the Cabinet of Ministers, who you are in charge, need to change above all the non-professionals and those who take a prominent anti-Ukrainian position, starting with Deputy Prime Minister Seminozhenko, Minister of Education of Tobacco and others. However, Boyko is known to be a representative of the “Block of Lithuania”. There were questions about this candidate on the block itself. And what are the positions, what are your real motives as Prime Minister for the Prime Minister's candidature that you're releasing, and what is the candidate for the post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u13	The change of leadership is related to the transition to another job.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u14	National deputy of Fomin, faction “Blok Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u15	I give the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u16	Surrender the right to Oleg Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have a question. Thank you for having responded to me this way, Mikolo Janovich, with such a friendly smile, but no one is secret, and the district authorities report that bribes were forced to wear suitcases to the Ministry of Health every week. You immediately informed me that you were sending your former minister to another job. Perhaps it would be worth sending him, not to work, but to the mines for the battle systems that were installed in this ministry? That's the first question. And the second question. With the appointment of Mr. Zlochevsky’s new director, will bribes and bribes at the Ministry of Health, government officials, and so on? Ministry of Environmental Protection, I'm sorry. It's the conversation, by the way, it's the right thing to do. The Minochrons also take health care, and Mitnik, the minister of health, is said to be your creature.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the groundless accusation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Boyko W.O. from the post of Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6635]] [[10:35:18]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, Mikola Janovich, on your nomination to serve as minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u20	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, part 12, paragraph 12, make a proposal for the appointment of Zločevský Mikola Vladislavovic as Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? You don't? Is it? Sign up. Three minutes, please. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Stretović, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u22	Vladimir Stretović, Party “Christian-Democratic Union”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Mikolo Janovich, since in the history of the nominee, he had already served as the minister of the environment, only then did he have a different name. Indeed, that period of his activity was so effective that you did not find another expert and return to the old frame of reference instead of updating the country’s administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u23	I think that Zloczevski is a good qualified specialist. And that's why I'm proposing him to serve as minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u24	Yuri Klukkowski, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mikolo Janovich, in the President's program, which this government and this coalition are carrying out, it has been written that professionals will come to power. Please tell me, out of the four or five educations that a candidate has as a minister, which one of them is a professional in the direction in which he should operate in your government? Would you please tell me that your government doesn't need expertise?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u26	I answered the previous question completely, and I'm counting on that to be enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u27	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, “The Fatherland” Party. Dear Mikolo Janovich, you know, I feel a little offended, you know what? Because, as far as I know, the team of Vladimir Litvin, Head of the Supreme Council, is indeed a highly professional team. And I just, you know, I have this feeling that they're just being hit so hard that they've been taken and thrown away by this minister, who was also a national MP of his time, and all that. I don't know, I'm just worried about what's going on in the coalition. I don't know this candidate, but if we don't even have a questionnaire on him, we don't have his autobiography on our hands right now, so to speak, they're going to vote in the dark for him. At least we haven't been handed out, I haven't seen it completely, because I'm just really worried that in about a month we're going to vote against it just like we voted against Boyko. What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u29	I can answer that here, because more than that, it was addressed to me. I invite all the national deputies to abide by the Rules and register at the registration desks, to take the documents. And secondly, I'd like to ask you not to worry about us here, but to talk more about how we can organize the state life of Ukraine. Whoever insulted you, we'll figure it out. Oleg Lazko, Faction BUTT, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm just asking you a question of how we can organize a better life in Ukraine. Dear Mikola Janovich, can you guarantee to the public that Mr. Zločevsky will clean up the system of corruption, abuse and abuse of the millions of people who turn to this ministry, especially through the line of consent of environmental experts, etc. That's the first question. And the second. Please inform Parliament and the public whose quota for the minister is Mr. Zločevski's appointment, so that we know what political power will be responsible for the ministry's activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u31	Mr. Zločevski himself will be able to answer Mr. Lášk's first question. With regard to the second question, it is a matter of coalition, which she will propose to serve as appropriate, and the Prime Minister's case for bringing this candidature to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I put to the vote the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the appointment of the Zločevský Mikol Vladislavovic as Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine” [[Registration number 6636]] [[10:41:04]] For 259. Decision taken. [[Applause]] I invite the minister to the oath. Minister, I'd like to invite you to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u33	I, Zločevsky Mikola Vladislavovic, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding human rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Let's welcome the minister. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Let us turn to the following human resources issues on which opposition officials were urged yesterday to do what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! We are continuing our consideration of personnel issues. We have obtained several decrees from the deputies, and we will consider them all today, which have already applied to the deputies, as subjects of the legislative initiative for the release of those who have been assigned and in line with the release of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today we will consider these rulings, the rulings related to the dismissal of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and there are five rulings. And there's a draft decree for the release of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Semenozhenek. That's the order in which we're going to look at them. Once again, these are proposals from fellow MPs. It's being considered, let's see, maybe there'll be a discussion and so on, so I'm going to propose these short-term personnel issues. Please vote. [[10:44:01]] For 221 Decision taken. I inform you, Your Honor, that National Deputy Zvaric Roman Mikhajlovich, unfortunately I do not see him in the session room, has handed down five draft discharge orders for judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[with numbers 6294, 6295, 6296, 6297, 6298]] I'm asking this question. The following is the case: Each of these rulings, once again, I emphasize the following: 6294, 6295, 6296, 6297, 6298, refers to the judges of the Constitutional Court who, according to their colleague, violated the oath in connection with the adoption of the decision when they considered the constitutional application for the formation of a coalition of MP factions. [[by the number 11PP 2010 of April 6, 2010]] And Roman Mihajlovich believes that those who voted in favour of such a decision and those appointed by the Supreme Council on their quota are subject to exemption from this post, with the wording "for violating the oath".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u36	Let's talk. I'm telling you what judges they are. I think we're going to do this: because the same thing, because the same thing, all of them apply to the same subject, I'm the name of the names that are going to be released. Let's talk about this, and then we'll put each decision separately. I'm calling it my last name. Order 6294 on the release of Colossus Michael Ivanovich from office of Judge of the Constitutional Court in connection with the violation of an oath. Order 6295 on the release of Chief of Staff, Anatoly Sergiyovich, from the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court in connection with the violation of an oath. Order 6296 on the release of Takjak Pavel Mikolaiovich from office of Judge of the Constitutional Court in connection with the violation of an oath. Order No. 6297 on the release of Marcus Maria Andriyovne from the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court in connection with the violation of an oath. Order 6298 on the release of Ovcharenko Vejacheslav Andriyovich from office of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in connection with the violation of an oath. In this case, the committee on legal policy dealt with this issue on June 17 and made a decision. Anyone ready from the committee? I can't see my head. Please, Knazevitch, give us two minutes’ information on the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I didn't support this decision at all, but since I'm the only one on the committee, I'll let you know. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, the Committee on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting on June 16, 2010, draft decisions of the Supreme Council on the release of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Ukraine of Ovcharenko, Markus, Tkakouk, Golovin and Colossae. The projects are proposed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the appointed judges be released from positions in connection with their violation of the judge’s oath by making mutually exclusive decisions, in which case the latter have deliberately violated the oath of the Constitutional Court judge. Not purely or conscientiously acting as a judge of the Constitutional Court and failing to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine. For the purpose of reviewing the selected projects, the committee shall proceed with the following. An article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u38	You've got a minute left. You reason on the committee’s decision, and what is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u39	Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 114, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. The Ukrainian Act “On the Rules of the Supreme Council” rejects the draft decrees on the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court by the National Deputy Zvaric. I'll have two words, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues, in fact, the committee's decision is made by a majority, but the minority also had a position expressed in a separate opinion. It comes down to the fact that aside from the purely political, which are the points in this decision, these are legal aspects. In the decision itself, the motivational part is based on the fact that individual coalition membership is possible only in those deputies who are non-fractional, who are excluded from factions. At the same time, the effective part extends this decision to all other deputies, which is prohibited by the Constitutional Court Act itself and by the Constitutional Court. It can’t be that one part of the decision is about the other, and the conclusion is about the other. In view of these circumstances and based on the Constitution, the body that appointed the judge, in accordance with the Constitution, in connection with the breach of an oath, may consider the matter and decide on the question of the dismissal of such a judge. These judges are appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u40	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u41	Since these judges are assigned by quota, I ask you to consider this issue and support draft rulings, this is the position of minority in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u42	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, there are willing to discuss the matter, please sign up. Yes, John Kirilenko is handing over Lalashka, please prepare for Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u43	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I want to repeat the names of these judges of the Constitutional Court so that the whole country will remember them. These names will be written in black letters in the history of Ukraine, because it is through these judges that the “carcase coalition” has been sanctified. It is thanks to these judges today that repression against opposition is taking place in the country, and it is thanks to these judges, who at the power of the “beneficiary” wanted to continue to be, who ignored their conscience, disregarded their responsibility to the country, and claimed to be black, contrary to the previous decision of the Constitutional Court. That is how they treated article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which led us to have a coalition of carcasses in Parliament today. It was these judges Ovčarenko, Markus, Tčakuk, Golovin, Colossus and other judges, too, but we call these names seven judges who were elected by the Supreme Council, in fact by their decision, enslaved the political situation in Ukraine, overturned the selection of millions of people who voted for democracy. These judges, who disregarded their high duty to the judge of the Constitutional Court, actually overstepped the Constitution and overstepped the choice of people. Today, thanks to them, we have a coalition of carcasses, thanks to them we have authoritarianism in power, persecution of the media, persecution of journalists, persecution of people who have the right to freedom of speech, imprisonment of Makarenko, who defended Ukraine’s interests, and so forth. These are the far - reaching consequences of decisions taken by the Constitutional Court. And 31 numbers we're going to have elections to the local authorities and a referendum that will completely usurp the power of today's party, the Party of Regions. Shame on those judges and let them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u44	I repeat, the rules, please, Paris. But thanks to what they have added, there is still order in the state. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I assure you this is only at first sight a political issue. I understand that since the rulings were, you know, in such an emotional hurry, immediately registered after the famous events and the famous decision of the Constitutional Court or the notorious decision. But in fact, the motivating part of that decision, the draft decision that is recommended for consideration today, is absolutely constitutional and legal. The point is that the judges of the Constitutional Court have violated the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act twice in the course of their deliberations and decisions. For the first time, instead of following the logic of their decision, which was made in 2008, according to which deputized factions by exclusive coalition entities, and this decision is clearly based on the Constitution of Ukraine, they allowed a precedent for making radically polar other decisions. That neither the Constitution nor the law are expressly acceptable. And the second argument that I'm talking about today is when the motivational part says one thing, which is that only those MPs who are non-fractional can join the coalition, and the resolution then extends this possibility to all other MPs, including those who are part of factions that have not joined the coalition. That my point of view is an even more severe violation than before, since we can allow the judges to forget something, perhaps something has not been read. Perhaps they want to say that they did not take part in the consideration of the previous decision. Although I can tell you that the Constitutional Court is, in fact, a permanent organ. And the composition changes only to the judges. Therefore, the judges are obliged to know everything that the court has accepted until they come to trial. In view of these circumstances, I ask you to support this decision because there is no policy here. It's only about the right. And the Supreme Council, if she closes her eyes now, she'll come a long way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when it comes to the fact that individual judges have filed a resignation application, we are very easily and fully in stock.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u46	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u47	I don't know any judges, personally the Constitutional Court, who are being asked to be released. Unlike those who ask questions about their release. Unlike those who took part in political pressure on those judges, the situation depends. And let's not pharaohize. When these judges have to make one decision, they are under pressure, including personnel pressure, political pressure. When you have to make other decisions, they're blamed. This is a Pharisee! And as long as these judges are not really independent, there will be such rulings. And, Your Honor, it's up to those who have legal education to make decisions, you know, at least a law degree is required. So I have a question: “And who are the ones who can determine the breach of an oath by one judge or another?” Who, I want to ask you, are you? No, you don't have the right; you don't have the right. Even so, the author of the decree has no right, because he doesn't have a degree in legal education, you know that very well because you've raised these questions. So I understand that there are decisions that the author wants to make that decision. In this case, it's a pear-agitation mechanism. You've achieved it, but you know it won't be voted on. I'd like to see if 100 or 120 people vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u48	A faction that is not registered has the right to speak for 1 minute. Party of regions, Koleshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, people of good will, you are present at the theatre of absurdity when the false Democrats, who are in the midst of human rights defenders, today have shown their hypocritical, sudden, vile face. These are the people who have no legal right to judge the court's decision, they're trying to show us political injustice, they're the people who, in five years of their stay in power, destroyed justice in Ukraine, they've destroyed that justice, they've trampled it, and now they want to show their face to the Democrats. Shame on you, gentlemen, on the so-called opposition. You have no right to judge the court's work, you're not authorized to do that, and you're not going to get a political hearing. Go, repent for your sins before the people, before justice, before the Constitution. It's not your right to talk about justice today. You destroyed it, and you reap fruit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u50	From the group “prefactional” in one person, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, you may have claims against the judges of the Constitutional Court and, in general, before this court, I have a very big question when the Constitution has been adopted or we have not made a mistake by creating this body at all, but this is another matter. In the Constitution, it is not the spirit that should be sought but the letter that reads. This “loss cannot be pardoned” where it is essential to read the Constitution. The Constitution says what is written. And this is the last decision of the Constitutional Court, although we understand it very well, it contradicts the spirit of the Constitution that they wanted to make, but it is also the case that the decision of the last Constitutional Court is clearly consistent with what is written in the Constitution. If I were to question the responsibility of the judges of the Constitutional Court, I would ask him. As for the previous decision, where, contrary to the very clear rules of the Constitution, the question was that such a coalition could not be created. So in this case, having claims both to the judges of the Constitutional Court and to the courts in general, I think that those rulings should be rejected as legally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u52	Thank you. The discussion is concluded, Your Honor. I'm voting on draft regulations. It is based on the vote of Order 6294 on the release of Colossus from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:59:46]] For-146 The decision is not taken. The draft Resolution 6295 on the release of Main from office of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:00:11]] For-147 The decision is not supported. It is the vote of Order 6296 on the release of Tchakok from office of Judge of the Constitutional Court. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:00:39]] For-147 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on Order 6297 on the release of Marcus from the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:04]] For-142 To some MPs who don't have the system, I'll explain, because you work for yourself and for those who don't. We worked a lot better last night, believe me. And you should be ashamed because you were a walker yesterday. The ruling of 6298 on the release of Ochcharenko from office of Judge of the Constitutional Court is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:01:45]] For-154 The decision is not taken. That's it, we're done. Dear colleagues, we have a number of decrees for the release of certain ministers. But given that we are already in the course of this session, during this session we've been looking at these candidatures, we're talking about the Minister of Interior and Home Affairs, and we're talking about the Minister of Education and Science, so these decisions can no longer be considered in two or, in one session. These decisions, if the authors insist and re-register, will be eligible for consideration at the next session. And there's also a draft Order 6245 on the release of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Seminozhenko. The initiator of the bill, the initiator of the Olga Bodnar bill. I can't see her either, I can't see her either. Is there a need to discuss matters? You don't? Then I am voting for Order 6245 on the release of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Seminozhenko Vladimir Petrovich. Please vote. [[11:03:23]] For 378 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please calm down. I've explained, I've explained, and once again I've said that these draft decrees for other cabinet members have no right to be considered at this session, because we've already considered them once. So please wait for the fall. A draft Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market is under consideration. [[Registration number 6564]] Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Makuh Volodymyr Aleksijovich reports. Prepare for the head of the Committee, Martinek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u53	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market has been developed with a view to establishing principles, the stable functioning of the natural gas market in Ukraine and its further development, taking into account the interests of consumers and the State and bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the basic provisions of European Union legislation. The bill provides for the determination of the powers of the central executive body, Minpalevenergo, as part of the implementation of the State administration of the sector and the NCRE regulatory bodies, which are not yet established at the legislative level. A clear list of public authorities that exercise public oversight in the field of natural gas markets is defined. Certain activities in the natural gas market that require licensing include activities for the transport of pipelines, distribution of natural gas and petroleum gas, provision of regulated and unregulated tariffs, and storage of natural gas. Basics explained. the basis for the functioning of the natural gas market, which operates on competitive grounds, with the exception of natural monopolies, such as the free choice of natural gas suppliers, natural gas trade, including auctions and exchanges, and the conduct of natural gas tenders. The established standards of access to Ukraine’s Single Gas Transport System are based on the principle of equality of rights of all market entities and the functions of the sole operator of Ukraine’s Single Gas Transport System. The law also provides grounds for the refusal of a single operator and gas transport companies to access Ukraine’s single gas transport system. At the same time, the law takes into account the active position of budgetary legislation in the area of natural gas supply to the population and the order in which the purchase price is produced in gas companies. Separate functions of transport and distribution of natural gas, as provided for by European Union legislation, have been introduced. An order has been established for natural gas calculations to the population and budgetary institutions and organizations that provide for the opening in the institutions of the authorized banks of the current accounts with a special use and recalculation regime according to the NCRE distribution algorithm. The rights and responsibilities and responsibilities of natural gas market operators are clearly defined and a transitional period is established to ensure a gradual and progressive transition to the full - scale natural gas market. In the first phase, where separate functions are performed from the distribution and supply of natural gas, defined consumers who acquire qualified status and are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers as guaranteed suppliers. This phase has been in effect since January 2012. At the second stage, in which all categories of consumers acquire the status of qualified consumers, this phase has been in effect since January 1, 2015. To determine the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers, the guaranteed supplier of the function of such a supplier is subject to a licence to supply natural gas with an unregulated tariff. The bill is in agreement with interested authorities of the central executive branch. And I would also like to point out that the European Union's representation in Ukraine, with an official note, has reported that the content of the Ukrainian law reflects the content of the EU Directive in 2003 number 55, whose implementation is a necessary prerequisite for Ukraine's membership in energy co-operation. The bill was adopted on the basis of a profile committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account the importance of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, I ask the honourable national deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u54	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u55	Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u56	Arzhevtin Stanislav's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u57	My question is not so much about the gas market, but so much so that there is no such market, for example, in the Zacarpathian region at all, because there is actually a suspension of the gasification of villages, so I have a big request to you, especially in areas that live in national parks where it is forbidden to cut forests and thus produce fuel. Please note in particular the mountainous areas of the Zakarpatsk region, where a large gas pipe passes, but the villages are not gassed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u58	Thank you. We have adopted a programme for gasification of Ukrainian population sites, we are now coming out of the financial capabilities of the NAC “Naftogaz” of Ukraine and all the projects in this programme will be implemented. With regard to the Zacarpathian region, there are, of course, questions related to the availability and cost of these gas pipelines that come into the remote areas. Maybe in some cities you don't have to build gas pipelines, you have to make natural gas supply in the form of compressed natural gas, and I think it's going to be more efficient and cheaper, and the price of that gas is going to be maybe less than the price of the pipe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u59	Chernobyl Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich! I fully support the position stated in the bill, but I have only one request to clarify whether we can, at least as a result of the adoption of this bill, limit it if we prevent this unnatural washout through the intermediate structures and the complicated scheme of the gas supply system. And to make it difficult to get into the bankruptcys that have recently been trying to provoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u61	This law is a framework law that allows us to define more clearly the functions of consumers and natural gas suppliers, more clearly defined calculation methods. We have all the traders, all the intermediaries, before they get the gas resource, they're going to have to make a prepayment. So we're going to achieve a situation where there's no artificial bankruptcy situation, when some consumers are deprived of the gas they've already paid for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u63	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine”. Mr. Deputy Minister, I've been familiar with the ruling of the so-called Stockholm Court. I think that after that, after the Naftogazu position, I don't know what to do with your ministry, it's obviously to be disbanded. Please tell me if you've read about this decision and this law, about the functioning of the market, we obviously have to conclude from that decision. That is to strengthen the role of the State, to increase transparency, to strengthen the educational dimension in your ministry and subordinate structures, including the NAC “Naftogazu Ukraine”. Where the patriots of Ukraine, and not the traitors, should be, not working on Russian intelligence, other organs, because the 4 and 5 billion that have been thrown out of the defense of state interests is in my opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u64	With regard to the allegations you're making, the Stockholm trial is now ongoing and until its final conclusion, I don't think there are any conclusions to be drawn. But this law is all the more so. established standards for reforming the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, preventing excessive manipulation of the company in the natural gas market, and the progressive introduction of market relations in the natural gas market. So in this context, we think that this law will serve as very positive steps towards creating transparent and transparent conditions in the gas market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u65	Valentina Matviev, Gornienko Sergey, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u66	Dear reporter! Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian company, Poltavščina. Well, I understand the ideology of this law, but I'd like to ask you a question. Well, there is article 10, the satisfaction of the population’s natural gas needs, the fifth part of which says that to meet the needs of the population, they are delivered to guaranteed suppliers at fragmented prices set by the National Energy Regulatory Commission. Experts estimate the cost of 1,000 cubes of Poltava gas today to be between 147 and 167 dollars. And the population pays more than that, more than that. Why are prices so shaped, and why are affluent parts of this profited? Next question. The question is, exactly what we are today is preventing us from establishing a state monopoly on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u67	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u68	As far as prices are concerned. Prices are set by independent NCRE regulators. How are they established? They take into account the cost of production, they take into account the cost of transporting this gas and the cost of supply to specific consumers. Consumer prices are now divided into four categories depending on consumption volumes. The poorest sections of the population that consume up to 2.5 cubes of complaints are, the average price at which they pay for gas, 353 bracelets per thousand cubes. This is, if we compare it to, say, imported gas, by the resources of the import gas for today, this marginal price is about 2,000, 100 dollars per thousand cubes, that is, the difference is impressive. The average population pays, the average cost of natural gas supply is 599 dollars, if we say, in all categories. In our opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u69	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u70	In our view, this price does not allow the NAC Naftogaz to compensate for all costs of Ukraine and the sale of gas to the population today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u71	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, I would like to remind you and all of our colleagues that this bill has a direct impact on the social sphere of our lives, on the standard of living of our people. Because the main component of paying for residential services is energy and gas. The bulk of the cost of producing and providing services, unfortunately, is not pay, namely energy and gas. So the more order there is in this area, the more gas is going to be, and gas services are going to be cheaper, the more cost-effectiveness or self-sustainment, the better it will be for all society. That's why I have a question. In order for this bill to work, it must be effective. You know, you're probably going to have to create a working group before the second reading, because it's a really big bill. The question is one that concerns local self - government. Nevertheless, in article 8, look at the law, what are the powers, what are the differences between them in relation to the natural gas market entities of executive authorities and bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u73	The authorizations are very simple. At present, local authorities are setting tariffs on utilities. And that's what's most complicated. A complex situation in the natural gas market. Because the service tariffs are, well, almost twice as low as the cost of the gas at which it is being implemented in the Heatcommunergo. So it is very important for us today that local governments carry out a well-balanced tariff policy in this market.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on June 30, this year, a bill on the principles of the functioning of the natural gas market introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was considered. [[Registration number 6564]] The bill is aimed at regulating relations related to the production, transport, distribution, storage, supply and sale of natural gas. The government’s supervision of the operation of objects, the safe operation of equipment, and the use of natural gas is made up of 6 chapters and 24 parts. The draft law is partly based on the principles of the organisation of the functioning of gas markets, which are anchored in European Union legislation. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis. As for the individual positions and comments that were not included in the bill that our committee is working on in preparing for the second reading. In the opinion of the Chief Research Administration, it is worth paying attention to the unified terms of the European Union to expand and refine terminology. For example, it is appropriate to introduce the term “frequent natural gas” into the law, since all EU gas regulatory documents are extended to the operation of natural gas objects alongside other gas industries. In addition, the Ukrainian government is taking some steps towards a promising construction in Ukraine of a combined natural gas terminal, so we need to improve the legislative base in this direction. It is also appropriate to introduce the term “separation of production and supply functions from transport and distribution of natural gas or corruption”. This concept plays a significant role in European Union legislation. It should also be noted that the bill does not contain a section on the economic basis of the functioning of the natural gas market in Ukraine, in which it would be appropriate to specify the general principles of pricing and tariff formation in the gas sector. In general, the discussion committee noted that the bill largely achieved the objectives of regulating relations related to the production, transportation, distribution, storage, supply of natural gas, the safe use of natural gas equipment. The bill will also help to adapt Ukraine's legislation to EU legislation on common rules for Ukraine's internal natural gas market. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the principles of the functioning of the natural gas market to be adopted on the first reading as a basis and invites the Supreme Council to shorten the deadline for preparing the bill to a second reading by one week in order to accept it as a whole for the next week. This request is based on the need to fulfil Ukraine’s commitments to join the European Energy Society. These commitments on behalf of Ukraine have taken on yet another government, and the work in this direction must be continued. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u76	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. If there are others, please sign up for the performance. The factions have registered. Please, any of the national MPs. Yes, please, Zarubinski, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u77	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarbuniski, People's Party, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the law is clearly solid, Russian. And I think those who've been preparing it are getting a good look at the problem that's being regulated here. I wanted to, and I only took the floor for one purpose. There's a question that's completely out of place for gas consumers. There are counters that let us know how many people, how many a physical person, a legal person consumed gas. But no one asks the question, but what is the quality of this gas that comes in and that is used by the consumer by turning on its confort. Now, I would like, Mikola Volodymyrovich, to have this issue regulated somehow, and I don't know whether it's within this law or in some other regulatory framework. The quality of the gas does not really depend on the consumer. The consumer is forced to accept, implement what he has. And you're going to be told by any housewife that lately this quality is much worse, and much more gas is used to, let's say, boil some kind of product, boil more, use more gas. Who's supposed to be doing this, I don't know. Whether this should be reflected in this bill, for here is a question that I have specifically, deliberately, looked at the rights and obligations of consumers. But they only apply to quantity, not quality. This is one moment. And the second moment, maybe it doesn't apply to this bill anymore, but since you're a specialist, you've reported, I have a question about why, so far, Ukraine has been paddling the rear in terms of involving investors in the development of gas fields, not just back-up passports, but the impression that it's deliberately braked. If you look at the experience of the same Azerbaijan and how much Azerbaijan uses what came on its territory as a world-renowned corporation with authority, with new technologies, how much it provides to Azerbaijan's budget, how much it gives to the internal gas market, then you can take and compare what Ukraine has in the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf, it's an incomparable thing at all. I think it's been happening at the state level for years on purpose to stop the involvement of professional investors in the development of Ukraine's gas shelters. And then this law could be, if we really did get not 21 billion or 20 billion, but 40 billion, and we could do it, much more liberal and more user-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin. Prepare for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u79	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely share the opinion of my colleague Oleg Zarubinski, who said that in our society, there is a deliberate, more loyal politician, braking approaches to the development of our own ancestry. And this is only because in the government, in the President's Secretariat, there are people who lobby for the gas business of a foreign state. They don't care how much you get here in Ukraine, they care how many millions and billions of cubic meters go by every day, and that's what their profit depends on. That's right, Mr. Oleg, this is what happens. As far as this bill is concerned. Unlike you, I do not put great hopes in him because I see serious flaws in him. The faction will support it, I will support it in the first reading. I really don't know if we're going to be able to work on it in seven days, because, so far, the project introduced by Prime Minister Azarov has not been very well implemented. I didn't see much to see. In particular, what is involved today. People today are curious about how they will be equipped with population gas, how they will pay for it. Obviously, this is to be done by the State. Obviously, we need to prevent the loss of gas. Obviously we have to control the quality of the gas. You see what 1 percent of counterfeiting is, and I'm told by experts that 1 percent of iron is stolen like this. What kind of body can control today? No one's in the state, and no one's supposed to be here. I also propose and agree with the suggestions made that the status of those who are authorized to form the gas used for the needs of the population should also be clarified. This is 100 percent going to be a state-owned enterprise, because they're extracting our own Ukrainian gas, they're extracting it here, at a very different price, and they're asking the question that's being asked today, and they're now being asked by the government to make it so that they can raise prices for gas to the population of Ukraine in the fall, there's no need. Just to meet the IMF requirements, that's not an excuse. So I'm going to propose to vote in favour of this law and I'm going to vote in favour of it, but at the same time, when I read that decision, it's a disgraceful decision by the Stockholm Institute. I see the arbitration institute of the Chamber of Commerce here in the written statement “Naftogaz” giving up our property and demanding removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u80	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. No, no, that's not the point. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not on topic! Please, Stanislav Arjevitin. We're going to have "Variance," you're going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies! There is no doubt that this bill needs to be supported, but this is another opportunity to talk about the side problems that occur here. For example, in the Zacarpathian region, the paradox is that almost all major gas highways pass through the area, and most villages have not yet been gassed. I'll set an example in my village. The village of Kolochava Intergirski district of Zakarpatsk district The village is surrounded by a large gas pipeline “Urengoy-Pomari-Uzhgrad”, 15 years of gasification, and people have already spent their money on internal gas pipelines, but of course this has not been completed by now. And this, among other things, is not just in our village or in our area, it's in almost all of the highlands, and of course it's sad, because everyone's waiting, the drugs are all broken, they're not falling apart because they're all waiting for the pipe to be finished, the gasification is over. The whole social sphere -- the boilers that work and everything else -- of course since the Soviet Union and are not actually being updated, because everyone is also waiting for gasification to be completed and appropriate appliances to be purchased. So I feel as if I have been able to do so again. Please pay particular attention to mountain areas, because the situation is that most people live in areas of different parks, parks, where forests are actually banned, and people, highlands, travel to lowlands, and for 1200 - 1,500 dollars buy a second car, bring it back to the forest, and in a good big family it is in half. So please pay attention to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u82	Thank you. A faction that didn't sign up for one minute. Please, Gordien, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u83	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I'm asking the authors of this bill and my colleagues that in preparing for the second reading, we're going to need to significantly increase the issue of the state monopoly on intelligence, just transporting gas to the consumer. And two big problems. This is the authority of the authorities and the local self-government, look. Ensure the efficient use of natural resources. What makes use of natural resources today is that in the Lochvic region of Poltava it is extracted and practically these communities have nothing to do with it. And so is the whole of Poland. And the next big problem. It's people who build delayed networks. And here, you say, fostering development. They build, at their own expense, they pass them on, and then those who use them tear out the tri road at the price of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u84	Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption of Bill 6564 -- the bill on the principles of the functioning of the natural gas market. Please vote. [[11:33:05]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! How would you view it if, with such support, we might immediately accept it as a law? Yuri Anatolyevich, let's agree. Can't you? Then I'm voting on the proposal to shorten the deadline for drafting the bill so that next plenary week we can look at it as a law. Please vote for this proposal. [[11:33:44]] For 282 I'd like the profile committee to prepare the bill immediately for consideration. A draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Land Rental Act is under consideration. Please, Sergey Tereshuk, deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. [[concerning the State registration of the land lease agreement]] [[Registration number 4681]] The drafter of the bill is Head of the Supreme Council, Litwin Vladimir Mikhajlovich. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. Sergei Mikolaiovich one minute. [[11:34:40]] For a hundred and Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u85	The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on 24 June, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 20 of the Land Rent Act, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyr Lithuania, and notes the following. [[Registration number 4681]] The proposed bill proposes to clarify the wording of part two of article 20 of the Land Rental Act. It is this bill that will enable the legislative regulation of the state registration of leased land. To date, in order to register a land lease, the State Land cadastre is governed by Order No. 174 of the State Commission of July 2, 2003, approving the provisional procedure for the conduct of the State Land Register. The order does not set a time limit, a list of documents to be submitted for the registration of the land lease. Many complaints from farmers, farm managers, landowners about what much documentation is required that is not provided for by valid legislation. Therefore, the bill introduced by the Chief of the Supreme Council is valid today. It will be able to clearly determine the arrangements for the registration of land leases. The committee therefore proposes that this important bill be adopted in the first reading, accepted as a basis. Because we recently passed a law on the state registration of property for immovable property and their burdens, which provides for the order of registration of land leases. In addition, there are some technical amendments that need to be made to comply with the Earth Code. So, Your Honor, I'm asking you to support this bill, and I'm asking you to make all these amendments within seven days, and at the next plenary session, we can adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u86	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u87	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u88	Thank you. Have a seat. Shall we discuss it? It's all clear, your honors, there's really a little detail here. Let us support both the drafter of the bill, and the opinion of the profile committee, we will vote in favour of a bill under article 4681 amending article 20 of the Land Rental Act. [[concerning the State registration of the land lease agreement]] Please vote. [[11:37:37]] For 280 A decision has been made. There is a suggestion to shorten the procedure for preparing for second reading. Please be supportive. [[11:38:00]] For 255 Thank you. Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. Registration No. 4423. Odarchenko, author of the initiative, Yuri Vitaliyovich. There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:38:35]] For 235 A decision has been made. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, it's been a year since we've approved a programme for the development and reform of housing and utilities, and we'd expect at least a reduction in the crisis in this area, but it's useless. One reason for this is the imperfection of housing laws, such as the Law on the Unification of Coowners of a House. The law would promote the existence of an effective owner of housing in the person of OSBB, but in nine years its operation was only 9 percent of the housing. Dear colleagues, what does the new bill propose? In old homes, three homeowners can form joint ventures. In new buildings, if unification is not created by general procedure, it is the work of the builder. A possible union of coowners in several homes, all the owners of the premises becoming members of the compound. This bill does not narrow down the rights of citizens, for a resident who is not a member of the OSB cannot today influence its decisions, but must do so. The transfer to the OSBB property of the instigator territory is in the Earth Code, but this mechanism is not working well. Therefore, the project provides that this area is passed on to the owners of the house, while the creation of OSBB is prohibited, and legal action with it is prohibited until the act is obtained. The concept of “non-residential housing” is clarified in such a way that it does not prevent the legal privatization of auxiliary facilities in the form of non-residential facilities, which is now a very big problem. The union will determine for itself the performer of utilities. Refusal to transfer a waker to an EBB administration is not allowed; today, unifications do not rarely have to be tried. The existing VAT and rental tax benefits are clearly fixed. Dear colleagues, the committee had a positive consideration of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u90	Thank you. Done, yeah? Finish up. Yes, have a seat, then, please. From the Committee of Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction of Construction and Housing and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Construction of Urban and Housing and Regional Policy at its meeting on July 8, last year, discussed a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House, submitted by Odarchenko, Popovic and others. The bill is designed to introduce a modern system of housing management in Ukraine, with active involvement in these population processes, a significant increase in the creation of joint owners, which corresponds to the world practice in this area. The main scientific and expert office proposes to adopt the first reading as a basis, taking into account the comments made and the suggestions made in a separate section of the bill. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that the drafting of the bill did not correspond to the normative technique in part of the numbering of parts of the articles. The Committee on Budget Affairs has determined that the bill has an impact on the spending of the budget, increasing it. The Ministry of Finance notes that the adoption of the bill in the current year requires additional funds from the state and local budgets related to the implementation of the measures, financing the first capital renovation of the house in accordance with the obligations of the former owner, free documentation of the transfer of the land on which the apartment apartment house is located, or its part and territory in the community, the combined property of the members of the union with the provision of first-line assistance and so on and so on. But if this is not done, the problem will never be solved again, and no one will ever begin to solve it. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council the bill on the basis of a first reading review and to prepare it for consideration in the second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat. Should we support it? I am voting for adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 4423, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. Please vote. [[11:43:56]] For 347 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the impossibility of imposing consumer arbitral treatment and the unconditional right of consumers to seek protection before a public court]] [[Registration number 4260]] The author of the Feldman initiative, Alexander Borisovich. Please. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:44:37]] For 223 The decision is supported. Please, Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u93	The presiding officer, in recent times more and more commercial organizations, have included in their contracts provisions to deal with disputes between commercial organizations and consumers in arbitral tribunals. When entering into a contract with a bank or with an insurance company, the consumer fails to notice or fails to give due consideration to the fact that all disputes arising under the agreement are subject to a decision in the arbitral tribunal. In practice, this leads to the fact that the consumer is effectively deprived of the possibility of protecting his rights in the local court at his residence. Instead, he is essentially forced to travel to another city where the arbitral court is located. In addition, the consumer is subject to additional financial pressure in view of the need to pay the arbitral congregation and the fee in the arbitral tribunal. In doing so, if the case were brought before a public court, the Law exempts consumers from the payment of government duties on appeal to a public court. Thus, the conclusion of the third covenant deprives the consumer of the right to appeal to a public court. In order to guarantee consumers the protection of their rights under the law of a public court, it is proposed that consumers be given the right to a unilateral rejection of the treaty. This rejection will result in an end to the arbitral review. The parties will be able to resolve their dispute in public courts. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The implementation of the bill will not result in additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. The Economic Policy Committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. One more second. In fact, arbitral courts tend to arise in banks as pocket structures. And in this situation, a person is obliged to pay extra for services that he does not actually need. Who are all working against him. And how could he not go to the arbitral courts if he was in that situation? The arbitral courts are already prepared to deny this person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u94	Thank you. It's from the Gayman Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u95	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues and national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on June 24, 2009, on the tenth, discussed a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Inadmissibility of Forced Consumers of Third Review and Unqualified Consumers’ Right to Seek Protection to the State Court. The task of the draft Law is to guarantee consumers the right to defend these rights, provided for by legislation before a public court. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. But he makes his comments and suggestions. The general conclusion is that according to the first reading of the draft Law, the following observations and suggestions can be taken into account. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the inability to impose an arbitral review on the consumer and the unconditional right of the consumer to seek protection before a public court by the Ukrainian national deputies Feldman and Gayman, to accept as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u96	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who, apart from Arjevetin, still wants to speak. Then, please, no record of Stanislaw Argewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u97	Your Honor, I'm sure it's a very good idea, but it actually doesn't look like it, and I'll give you some examples. For statistics: Today there are 300 arbitral courts in Ukraine, which have considered in total 30,000 such lawsuits as we are talking about, and only 3.5 thousand lawsuits have been heard in public courts. And by the way, the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't support this bill; and by the way, the science and expertise department, read carefully, said that we don't really support and propose options that are fundamentally different from the ideology of this bill. This is to your knowledge who read carefully. Now that I'm good, I'm about to deprive consumers of services not to pay their taxes. But let's really see if these consumers are there, and if we don't do them a service tower. Of the 30,000 lawsuits brought by 330 arbitral tribunals, 90 percent are deposit lawsuits in those banks that have not returned. So if lawyers look carefully, according to paragraph 22 of Part One on consumer rights, they're not, and they're not, and they're not spreading to them, like consumers, that is, those people who are going to apply to public courts, they're not consumers, they're going to have to pay to the state. Today, by the way, it is strained when tried in arbitral courts by legal persons. That's why we're doing the bear service. In public courts this is considered six months or more, in arbitral courts it is a few months. Therefore, the distinguished national MPs, very beautifully said, are perfectly well explained in the explanatory note, but in fact, in the life of those people we care about, they are not consumers, and they do not have a free hearing in public courts. Let's think about it. I'd say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u98	Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the impossibility of imposing consumer arbitral treatment and the unconditional right of consumer to seek protection before a public court]] [[Registration number 4260]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:51:28]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act on the certification of scientific and scientific and pedagogical qualifications is under consideration. [[Registration number 5267]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:52:02]] For-126 Dear colleagues! Another introductory came forward, and the MPs did not vote for what they were voting for. I'll explain again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to review Bill 5267 for a simplified procedure for returning to the question. Please vote. Let's vote more friendlyly. [[11:52:41]] For 255 We're back. I'm putting forward a motion for a vote on the shorter procedure for consideration of the Act at number 5267. Please vote. Yes, Yuri Vasilovich Karakai, please go to the rostrum. They'll vote without you. [[11:53:03]] For 245 Decision taken. Reports Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. Get ready for Lutsky Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u99	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I apologize for my voice. For your consideration today, it is proposed that scientific and scientific and pedagogical qualifications be evaluated. For 19 years, there is a legislative solution to this issue by a large army of native scientists and teachers, candidates and doctors of science, professors and professors, young specialists who have decided to devote themselves to scientific activities. These are more than 2 million people who work in almost one and a half thousand scientific and scientific institutions, research and development institutions, more than a thousand higher education institutions, enterprises, institutions and organizations of all sectors and regions of Ukraine. At the same time, the process of attesting these experts remains undetermined. It is dedicated only to 2 articles of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which list the title and the degree and declare that the specialized scientists vote for the main link in the system of scientific and scientific pedagogical staff attestation. The rest of the issues are spread out by a number of sub-legislative legislation that do not always agree with each other and fully resolve the issue of the certification process. The status of the right of authorization, the tasks and principles of the basic subjects of the certification process of the Ukrainian Higher Testing Commission, the specialized scientific councils, scientists, councils, scientific institutions and higher education institutions, the official opponents and others involved in the process of assigning scientific names and the status of structures and persons remains unresolved. From time to time, both the procedure and the order of the test results in additional unforeseeable difficulties and artificial obstacles to obtaining a well - deserved recognition. In order to remedy this situation, it is proposed to adopt a bill on the certification of scientific and scientific pedagogical personnel of higher qualifications, whose authors are representatives of all the factions of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u100	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u101	The bill regulates these issues. It's supported by the Special Committee. There is a reference to scientific and experimental, unscrupulous observation of scientific and scientific governance, which can be taken into account when preparing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u102	Thank you. Maxim Lutsky, first deputy head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Science and Education has considered a bill on the certification of higher qualifications in science and science. For the past 8 years, this is the fifth draft of a law on the development of higher-skilled personnel. Is this law necessary? The area of scientific and scientific pedagogical certification of higher qualifications is extremely important for the country, and today the legislation is completely out of order. This is the area where substantial funds are made available from the State Budget. The first is the formation of an appropriate government order; the second is the basic funding of scientific institutions that aim at financing fundamental science and training scientific personnel; and the addition of scientific contributions to scientific workers for scientific degrees; and the appointment of academics. Thus, the State must determine the basic principles of public policy regarding the preparation of higher qualifications, powers, functions and rights, the responsibilities of the participants in the certification process, the order in which they are awarded scientific qualifications and the assignment of academic titles. The other one. In our society, there is still a fairly high degree of scientific recognition and rank left by the Soviet Union. In 2005, there were 665 PhDs, and in 2009 there were 806 PhDs. So it went up 21 percent. The candidate for science was 4789 respectively, and in the ninth year was 6225. So it's increased by 30 percent. Today, the current system for the preparation of higher-skilled scientific personnel is regulated mainly by regulations that are constantly adjusted. During the last period, there has been an increase in requirements for dissertationists and applicants for the title. However, it is not possible to make a major improvement in this area. It's not a secret, it's lowering the level of candidate and doctoral dissertation. This leads to the emergence of people with scientific degrees and science degrees who do not actually have real scientific or science-educated gains. On the other hand, there are many well - known scientists who are unable to do so because of bureaucratic obstacles to the certification system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u104	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u105	There's a note that they're all constructive, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also supports the adoption of this bill on first reading. Please support the MPs, and by second reading all the amendments will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u106	Thank you, sit down. I see the mood of the session room, I understand it. Dear colleagues! It's probably worth supporting, from the committee, you've identified the reporter. Sign up for the faction. Zablock, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u107	Thank you. I'd like to give the floor to the national deputy of Kovalevska Yulia Sergiyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u108	Julia Kovalevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In today's review of the draft basic law in the field of scientific and scientific pedagogical qualifications, I think that a very relevant bill needs to be adopted, because the process of testing these professionals still remains unregulated. It is dedicated to only two articles of the Higher Education Act, which list the names and degrees and identify the specialized scientists on the core chain in the system of scientific and scientific pedagogical qualifications. The rest of the issues are scattered around the number of sub-legislative legislations that don't always agree with each other and fully address the issue of the certification process. The status, rights, authority, tasks, and principles of the basic subjects of the certification process remain undecided: the VAC, specialized scientific councils, scientific boards of scientific institutions, and higher educational institutions. From time to time, the procedure, the procedure, the order of certification for obtaining scientific degrees, and the names that place applicants at a disadvantage, create additional, unforeseeable difficulties, and artificial obstacles to obtaining deserved recognition. So I personally support the adoption of this bill as a basis, and I call upon my colleagues from other factions to do so. In preparing for the second reading, I think it's really necessary to take into account the observations and suggestions made by both the national MPs and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u110	Thank you. Carpuk is passing on to Polo, please. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u111	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, I am pleased that once your national deputy has repeated the position of our committee literally in a word. This means that the committee’s decision is supported, but that is not what I meant. Indeed, this law should be adopted, but he wanted everyone to know and to be present that this law would not save our science, our scientists, from the condition they are in. Maybe you'd like to know, I'll say, the average age of a doctor of science in our country today is 62 years, the average year of a student of science 48 years. It's the oldest, if you want, by age, the most reliable country we've ever seen in 91. In 20 years, we lost a third of our scientific potential and a third of our scientists today. This law is usually necessary, but if we have almost 40 science planners with 0.43 of GDP, the smallest indicator in Europe today, we will not save science by this law. I'm very sorry that on Wednesday, when I got together at committee hearings, the whole world of Ukrainian science, the whole world, and the universally known names of people who talked about the problems and the testimonials of personnel, and the flow of footage abroad. Why we don't have young people, no young doctors and no candidates, you won't find them today. Why there were no representatives of the ruling majority today, and this was usually a performance by the Cabinet of Ministers. Why is there a struggle in the Cabinet today, not for science, but for the destruction of science. Why is it that today Vladimir Seminomist's resignation is taken not only for him, but for the fact that 39 money managers are fighting for science, 39 executives, every ministry is pulling this blanket, and the Ministry of Finance today has the most money to develop science, so we're going to have financiers, and we're going to have accountants. Support this law, of course, but first of all, support science for real.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u112	Thank you. Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u113	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinski. The Lithuanian Block People's Party. I think this bill should be of interest to everyone, because I think there are a lot of people in this session room who have the appropriate scientific degrees and the scientific names. And I have high expectations that they are all adequate and equal to the preparation and scientific activities of the main scientific achievements of those who have the appropriate diplomas. So it's really a bill that's supposed to interest everyone. But it has been rightly pointed out, subjects of the legislative initiative, that all questions related to attestation are regulated by regulations, in general, it is unacceptable in such an important area, where there are so many crevices, let's say, and underwater flows related to how they are tested and how people get their names. By the way, when we're told that we have higher education institutions in Ukraine, not just in the hundreds, but in the two hundred universities of the world, I mean, the best, one of the indicators is that there's no reference in science that people understand, no reference to their scientific work. And the question is, where can these scientific papers come from if people don't print in foreign journals and don't publish monographs in other languages, because Ukrainian and Russian languages don't know much about the world, especially where sciences are developing -- it's a huge problem. And what the authors of the legislative initiative want to do, including address this issue, seems to me to be a very serious plus, because you know very well that if there are issues related to the higher certification commission, it will affect all the search engines, because today when a person writes the dissertation itself, it's much more difficult for him to go through the VAC than for the person who gets the "key" dissertation with the whole set, or a set of escorts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u114	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u115	and already prepared for evaluation and expertise in the higher appraisal committee. This is the question of justice, the justice of those who themselves engage in scientific activities and who buy dissertations. Thank you. We have to take him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u116	Yes, please, a minute, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I am two small replicas, but very important, I think. First. It is quite obvious that if adopted in the first reading that without serious such, thorough professional analysis of the second reading we cannot introduce this bill. And the second is about protecting our colleagues who work in the Science and Experimental Authority, and I would advise the rapporteurs, well, to act more correctly, that we have 14 pages of the proposals of the Scientific and Experimental Authority with a general conclusion, so to speak, quite categorical and critical. And when the reporter says that there are some observations that generally support, well that's 180 percent not true because it's written here. I think that if we continue to work, what our scientific expertise advised, we need to use it and use it in such a way that it really is the law that defined the only clear and clear rules of activity and the WAC, and the scientific and pedagogical systems of our employees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, those who have a bearing on the issues that we are discussing, will confirm that it really needs to be settled in law. Because today there are regulations, decisions and decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers that are constantly changing. If we accept it, we will increase the role of a higher certification commission, give it more rights and solidarity. I therefore propose to adopt, as a basis in the first reading, Bill 5267 on the certification of higher-skilled scientific and scientific and pedagogical staff. [[12:07:48]] For 299 Decision taken. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u119	Yes, dear fellows, we continue our work. We don't have much left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u120	“Victory” will be tomorrow. Sass, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to draw your attention to the following situation. According to part three of article 7 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, if the Supreme Council is to be appointed to the Cabinet of Ministers of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, the application for the permanent suspension of the authority of this national deputy is added. And in the case of election, the law says, the national deputy of the Cabinet of Ministers, this statement of permanent suspension of powers is being considered immediately. I wanted to ask you why this requirement of the law on the appointment of the minister of the environment Mikola Vladislavovich Zločevski has not been met. And I ask you to comply immediately with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u122	Thank you. It's one thing. And second, please, please, I'm asking the profile committee to explain the term “immediately”. We are considering a draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[concerning the granting to persons with disabilities of the right to extracurricular services of groups I and II]] [[Author of the initiative Zuravko Aleksei Valeriyovich]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. No objections? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:41:50]] For-191 A decision has been made. Yes, I understand that Ulyana Mikolayevna Mistipán from the committee, please. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u123	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council at its meeting on July 1st last year reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Disabled Persons in Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Žuravko. [[concerning the granting to persons with disabilities of the first and second groups the right to extra-service services]] The bill provides for the establishment at the legislative level, in particular in article 38 of the Basic Law of Ukraine on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities of Ukraine, of the right of persons with disabilities of the first and second groups of all nosologists to serve urban and inter-urban transport matters, as well as enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of ownership and subordination that provide any services to the population. I would like to say to the MPs that, until now, such services have only been used by war invalids under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. The adoption of the bill does not require additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine and the local budgets. Rather, it facilitates the vitality of individuals, especially those with limited physical capacity. The Supreme Council's chief scientific and expert office, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus, supports this legislative initiative and believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comment on the text of the bill. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the bill would have no effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u124	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u125	to the budget. Therefore, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, which grants persons with disabilities the right to extracurricular care in the first reading and generally as a law. Please vote and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u126	Thank you, Helen Mikolayevna. Please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? None. Then, dear colleagues, I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, registration number 4186. [[concerning the granting to persons with disabilities I and II groups the right to extracurricular services]] Please vote. [[12:45:30.]] For 307 Copy that. Dear colleagues! That's the result and the committee's proposal. I think we have absolutely the right to accept as a law as a whole. Because there's one norm. That persons with disabilities I and II groups exercise the right of extracurricular services in urban and intercity transport, as well as in enterprises, in institutions and organizations of all forms of ownership and subordination that provide any services to the population. I think we're clear. Please vote in general as a law. [[12:46:17]] For 303 The law is passed. Thank you. We could be looking at the bill at number 4548 right now. But the author of the bill, colleague Miroshnichenko, asked to move his consideration to another plenary week. I am voting on the postponement of Bill No. 4548 amending article 488 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Please vote. [[12:47:00]] For 238. Transferred. The same offer is made to us by Janowski: “Please postpone consideration of the bill on State support for the production and consumption of chemical fertilizers in Ukraine in view of the circumstances and the need for more thorough processing.” [[No. 4632]] I'm voting on a motion to move the bill to number 4632. Please vote. [[12:47:44]] For 227 Decision taken. Taking into account yesterday’s fruitful work, the prime right to “Varisne ” is vested in those who worked yesterday. Please register with the “Victane”. Yeah, Rabbit, Blackwolf and Jojik. There was no stand yesterday. No, no. Yeah, we're taking an hour. Please, Olena Bondarenko. Prepare Kseniya Lupini. I can't see Bondarenko. Is it? Please, Bondarenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u127	Please pass the word to Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u128	Shevchuk Sergei, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u129	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the new initiative of the Ministry of Health. This ministry has traditionally been criticized for its conservative and ingrained corruption. So the managers of the MOH have to initiate some kind of innovation. And the MOH's leadership is initiating. By letter of 07.04. In 10 years, the MoH approached Prime Minister Azarov of Ukraine asking for a VAT rate for export operations, imports, purchases of medical supplies and medical supplies from 2011 at 10 per cent. I'll remind you that now all transactions are tax-free. Since the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine established the State Register of Medical Devices and Medical Equipment in 2003, it is a socially significant tool for reducing prices for medicines and medical supplies. And the zero tax rate is now applied to the export of medicines from the Ukrainian manufacturer. And the question is, why break the existing system, because this is going to increase the price of drugs by 20 to 25 percent? Why is it that the MOH is in the process of traveling drugs? Surprisingly, the Mineconomies, the Head of State, the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship have rightly indicated that the abolition of existing aid will increase the cost of medical supplies by about one quarter, which will in turn require additional expenditure from the state budget and the introduction of a mechanism to offset costs to the socially important categories of the population, i.e. the sick, the disabled and the increased cost of local budgets. Why does the MOH want to do this? The answer is simple. This is due to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry, which has long occupied this ministry and now dictates its conditions in the face of the real needs of millions of Ukrainian patients. It is funny that such an initiative to reform the tax system is motivated by what seems to correspond to President Yanukovic's programme called “Ukraine for the People”. In 2010, the consolidated health budget was 41.7 billion dollars or more than $5 billion. Ukraine’s health expenditure will weigh 3.9 percent of GDP. In the President's stated plans, it is planned to increase to 7 percent. Prodigious plans. This is only $5 billion that could go to health care, the government, according to the Stockholm Court ruling, lost by our government officials, intended to give Rosukrenerego, not to help millions of people with disabilities in Ukraine. To make it easier for the sick to come up with a new term, this term is called “re. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u130	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u131	This term is "reimbursation", i.e. compensation for patients' expenses, mainly from local budgets. As this compensation process will take place in cities and villages, it is not worth describing, but Farmobiznes will have additional reserves from the new VAT package. We welcome the citizens of Ukraine with the start of the reimbursation process for validol, greenery, bandages, and castors instead of the process of affordable medication.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u132	Moses. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u133	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters! Last Friday, I registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine for the release from office of head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration of Mr. Viszwanyuk and the head of the Colombian State District Administration of the same area of Mr. Negrich for the organization of the raid and the capture of the best alcohol industry in Ukraine, the Involuntary Spirit Plant. Dear colleagues, I am a member of the Cologne-Snitney Electoral District of Majority and the factory is located in the territory of two districts. In 2002, when I became a national deputy, it was a run-in, neglected enterprise, and there were no jobs. I then addressed then President Leonid Kuchma, the head of his administration, Victor Medvedchuk, and with their help, the factory was restored. Today, there are about 200 people working in the factory, the factory is the first, the second, and in the last year, it has become the best industry in the Ukraine’s alcohol industry. Even so, everything in the factory is being machined by the head of Mr. Vishiwanyuk's district government and the head of Mr. Michael Negric's district administration. They had to file an application for refusal to perform the duties of director Konushkin Oreste, who had been acting as director for a year, and instead brought in a questionable reputation from the Montenegrin district of the former director of the Carpathian plant, Mr. Miroslav Rizun. He, in turn, assigned the former judge Johnyuk for bribes instead of himself. And it was a miracle that when the head of the concert “Ukrispirt” was presented, three performing duties of the alcohol factory involved. I've been to the labor group's meetings twice. The collective is definitely against the human resources guard at their factory. The collective is running steady, and the factory has the best indicators. And I want to tell you that both Mr. Vishiwanyuk and Mr. Negrich have shown official impurity. They put private interest above the interests of their countrymen, the carpathians, above the public interest, since the factory is the largest taxpayer in two areas. That is why I ask that my statement be formulated, Adam Ivanovich, as a reference to the President, along with my request to the Office of the Attorney-General, as a parliamentary request to examine these circumstances and to publish the text of my request in the Voice of Ukraine. I want the factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u134	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u135	I'd like to inform the Spirit Plant that you and I are going to stand up for the factory. You'll have jobs, wages. And the embroidery with the niggers will not run the factory, but they have something to do. Let them go in the ways of Zabolotov, Colomia, Kosova, and so on. Thank you for your attention. And I think we're gonna win.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u136	Thank you. The sand is passed on to Chechtov. Sorry, Chechetov's handing over Popescu. Behind him is Ivanichenko to prepare. He's handing over Mutsu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u137	Masterful colleagues! Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. It is well known that in the last decade of June this year, the Black Sea region was extremely affected by the rainfall that led to the sinking of most of the Black Sea region. As a result of the changes of 22-24 and 28-29 June, there were 40 submerged sites. By July 1, the water had been extracted from 13 of them, and another 27 submerged sites had been submerged. Of the 3,871 submerged buildings on yesterday’s submerged day, 1,071 remained. The 300 - mile [136 km] roads and 39 bridges are damaged only in general use, and there are victims. More detailed information will be provided by my colleague Romanyuk. Dear colleagues! On the spot, the MCS units and the state-of-the-state structures of the area are working in a timely and operational manner, and the area is headed by additional MAF units, and so on. After reviewing the affected areas as a result of the work of the government commission, the government has already allocated 50 million dollars, 40 of which have already come to the fore on eliminating the effects of natural disasters. Arrangements have been made for the provision of food and necessities to the victims. Acts of loss are made, and government authorities are assisting in the scope and scope of their powers. But right now, I want to ask the residents of Bukovina, of the region of Cherniewec, to also provide assistance to their own villages. In this situation, any additional assistance will be received with gratitude, so the faction of the party of the region of Cherniewec is addressing all colleagues, to all concerned to respond to this disaster and to count who can do as much as possible to the account that is open to aid the victims in the Statehood. Information about this account can be found on the official website of the Montenegrin District State Administration, and for the transcript and for those who want to respond to the name of the bank. The Central Administration of the Ministry of State of Ukraine in the Montenegrin Region, ERPROU code 02317304 IFO 856135, the recipient is the Chief Financial Administration of the Montenegrin District Administration with the mandatory footnote “For assistance to victims as a result of the flood in the Montenegrin region”. Thank you in advance and do not let the hand of the giver down. Thank you for your attention, and all the other information will be provided by our colleague from the region of Chernobyl, Mikola Romanyuk, who will speak after me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u138	But you're standing, at least for the 15th. Please, Mutz, get ready, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u139	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Respectful citizens, countrymen, fellow MPs, and the appropriateness of holding elections to local councils on a new legislative basis are confirmed by the negative experience of local authorities in Western Ukraine. To illustrate the Ternopil district council of the previous call. To this Western Ukrainian Council in 2006, many corrupters and politicians took part in the lists of political blocs in Yashchenko and Timoshenko. Moreover, as a result of the opposition of the above - mentioned orange political blocs, on March 15, 2009, elections took place to the Ternopil district council, which spent millions of dollars on Ukraine’s budget, all of which were in crisis for the crane year. So, especially in our western Ukrainian context, President Viktor Yanukovic's comments were that local elections should take place on a new legislative basis, aimed at people knowing who they were choosing, and MPs were attached to the territories, responsible for the state of local affairs. One such thing for Ternopilska is the celebration of the 800th anniversary of the establishment of our famous city of Zbarž. By decree of May 2000, the then prime minister issued a comprehensive program for the preservation of the historic construction of the central city of Zbarza. But almost nothing has been done in a decade. Instead, the new authorities and government and the district administration are responsible for the issues of Western Ukraine. Thus, at the meeting of the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, it was already about the need to allocate funds, for the restoration of the facilities of the Ternopil Castle National Reserve, namely the complex of architectural buildings of the “Marzaz Castle” and the “Visniewec Palace”, which is certainly important in the context of the above date. I will point out that the history of the “Strange Castle” is important and personal to me, because under its walls a native of my native village of Crovinka, the Cossack Colonel Morozenko, died. To sum up the above, there is no doubt that the updating of legislation on local elections to Galician bars will eventually lead to parties, patriots, who will take care of the issues of their homeland and their fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u140	Yes, please, Baby's got six minutes, he'll be three minutes, he'll give it to Yavorowski. Get Romanyuk ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u141	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to talk to Ukrainian citizens so they know what's going on in the country today. In recent times, much has been said about the Stockholm Court’s ruling on the return of gas, damages, and so forth. But no one has seen this decision or even the criminal case that put the former head of Makarenko’s Ministry behind him for blurring out the interests of Ukraine’s gas and hiding it. And when we asked the prosecutors and the D.A. Why is this a secret matter? They told us that there was a secret. So we figured out what's the secret? Here in my hands is a translation of the Stockholm Court’s ruling that Ukraine’s national authorities, in particular the Naftogaz, gave full effect to Ukraine’s national interests. I quote in Russian as a translation from the Stockholm Court ruling: “Naftogaza’s position is that 11 billion cubic metres of gas belong to RossUkrenergo and all belonged to RossUkrenergo”, Naftogaz admitted that there is insufficient legal basis for the allocation of 11 billion cubic metres of gas, Naftogaz no longer adheres to its requirements for transport charges and storage of that gas. Naftogaz stated that he could not deny that RoskreEnergo was entitled to fines. And here is the effective part of the Stockholm Court's decision to obtain 11 billion cubic metres of natural gas from Naftogaz no later than 1 September 2010. The other one. “Eftegazu” is ordered to pay fines by transferring “RossUkrenego” to 1 billion cubic metres of gas. Third. “The Stockholm tribunal declares that Naftegaz does not have the right to terminate the contract with RossUkrEnergo at the present time, and the contract is valid”. What does this mean for the country — the Stockholm Court ruling that the Ukrainian authorities handed down? That's 20 percent of the income part of the budget, that's 20 percent of Ukraine's gold reserves, that's 50 percent of the loan that our authorities are asking for from the International Monetary Fund, that's 200 percent, that's 300 percent of the increase in housing and utilities tariffs, that's the current government with Furtas, that entrepreneurs are getting billions of dollars, and we're getting loans for which our kids and grandchildren are going to return money. The tariffs are raised, saying that gas is cheap for people, that pensions are raised by two bracelets instead of the promised thousands of dollars, that's the price of our power. And they plant people who, in the interests of the country, returned this gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u142	Romaniuk, please. Romanyuk, and then Javorowski, for the time being, will prepare for Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, on June 22-29, this year caused great damage to the unique part of our country, the Bukovin soil. Seven rural areas and a district center were affected, and an extraordinary situation of regional level was reported in the region, submerged by more than 165 locations, damaged social areas, housing, dowry, agriculture, roads, bridges, and water - protection dams. According to previous municipal property reports, significant material damage has been caused, estimated at over 347 million dollars. A dangerous situation is the sad process. Yes, there has been an increase in the shift in Chernobyl that threatens the international railway connection of Ukraine-Balkana, and experts have determined the increase in the intensity and volume of shifts that, on a scale of destruction, can exceed the catastrophic effects of the 1995 shift. Therefore, it is now extremely important to approve an integrated programme against the shifts in the Montenegrin region and to secure its funding. In the event of adverse weather conditions, there is a danger of sinking the territory of the city of Chernivci by flooding the river Prut and the small rivers. Yes, according to the results of the tech-economic calculations, more than 140 million dollars are needed for the Sadgir district of Chernivci. In connection with emergencies, Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov visited the area. A government commission has been set up, headed by First Deputy Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Kljev and the Interministerial Operational Headquarters for the Elimination of Emergency Situations. The country has an operational group led by the Minister of Emergency Situations, Sufrich. Today more than 50 million dollars have been allocated. A bank account has been opened for disaster relief to residents of the area. I want to thank the leadership of the State, the rescuers, the military, all the benefactors who have not left Bukovina alone in distress and have provided great and important assistance. It's not like it's supposed to be in the region right now, it's up to the residents. The Scriptures are contrasted with coordinated and united efforts. Thus, it will have a long - term response, not only because of material damage but also because of the bitter taste of distress in the human soul. I am convinced that this disaster will not leave anyone behind. Together, central and local authorities, rescue workers, military, MPs, the entire Ukrainian community is doing everything possible to stabilize the situation, help people. There is an understanding of how important it is for those who have lost their homes to feel the State’s concern for their destiny. I am confident that the Supreme Council will also set priorities for helping the Montenegrin region solve the pressing problems of restoring normal activity. So I'm asking my fellow MPs to support the proposals for funding to help the Black Army. Only through the joint efforts of the beech community and the governmental executives will we overcome the effects of natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u144	Please, Yavorowski, 6 minutes. Get ready. Matthew and Naydjonov are being handed over to Gordienka for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u145	Dear voters, I have made a public promise that if Mikhail Chechtov does not stop pouring dirty opposition and speaking out of anti-Ukrainian positions, I will read fragments from a unique document -- protocol, this is a reliable document -- a record of his interrogation after he was released from office as head of the State Property Fund. Here's this document. The “Reviewer” edition received the most interesting document at its disposal, a report of the interrogation of the former Chairman of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Especially about Mikhail Chechev's activities as head of the GGI, i.e. the fund, were spoken before the 2004 presidential elections, when he was able to sell the largest Ukrainian enterprise, Krivorojstal, and then he intended to meet the Skretelek and Odessa Airport. After the presidential elections, when it came to the need to review the results of privatization, Chechov's name often came up in the context of responsibility for the dispossessing of the State's assets. These discussions appear to have continued. The law enforcement officials had communicated with the ex-head of the fund and had found it very interesting. In particular, Chechtov's citizen told law enforcement officials about Leonid Kuchma's role in the privatization of Krivoroztali about how Victor Pinchuk acted, how the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Viktor Yanukovic, dealt with the transaction. The question of the future fate of the investigation remains unclear.” Today, the fate of the investigation is fully understood. Here's the first explanation where the statement was taken by Lieutenant Colonel Digtyar. He asked: “By what regulations did you entrust your subordinates to act on behalf of the Fund?” Answer: “In particular, where, in which document the authority is allocated I do not remember.” Here's a fragment that people would know how to privatize in the first phase of the famous “Crioristal”, which was sold for 4 with a billion tail, but then, you remember, under the insistence of Yulia Timoshenko, it was sold for 24 there with a billion tail. As Mr. Chechetov explains: “After the announcement of the initiation of the privatization of the ICC into the Statehood Fund, statements were made by 9 applicants wishing to participate in its privatisation. [[I mean, a crooked metallurgical combination.]] Among the candidates was the US Still, an American firm LNM, which was not allowed by the Commission to participate in the competition because it did not take place on terms. Under what circumstances is it not explained why. “In the end, only six applicants were selected. Of these, there were two structures of Russian and four Ukrainian. After that, the President of Ukraine called me.” Look at what it looks like to be the president. “And recommended to me that this competition should be won by a serious national investor, whose list includes an industrial and financial consortium, an investment and metallurgical union, a consortium, an industrial group. I knew that the actual owners of those enterprises were Ahmedov, Pinchuk and Taruta. In the implementation of the recommendations of the President of Ukraine, Kuchma has developed additional conditions for the contest.” How is it privatized? “The industrial policy initiated by the Ministry, in which it was a key condition that the winner had to work on the Ukrainian market. Only two of the above-mentioned enterprises were eligible for this condition: Industrial and Industrial Group and Investment and Metallurgical Union. As a result, the Industrial Finance Consortium, which offered 4 billion 260 million bracelets, won the competition. According to available information, it was Chechetov to say that other foreign companies offered more money. For example, LNM US Still offered 7.95 billion and an additional 6.36 billion. [[America]] Another question for him. Question: “What regulatory documents have enabled the Ukrainian Foundation to privatize property in general or parts of property that are not subject to privatization as individually determined?” Answer: “There is no legal act so far that allows the privatization of property in general or parts of property that are not subject to privatization. The privatization of property that is not to be privatized was carried out by the Fund during my manual on the scheme worked by my predecessors.” It's a fragment before it was privatization. Question: “Do you consider it lawful to privatize facilities that are not subject to privatization?” Answer: “I find this illegal, but by way of exception, the Fund of the State of Ukraine has privatized the property of such facilities”. I read the following interesting passages: “In addition, I received an instruction from Ukraine’s top officials, in particular as regards Krivorozstanali, which I received from the former President of Ukraine, Kuchma. That is, to accept and listen to the initiative of the People's Deputy of Pinchuk to privatize the Commission.” Kuchma called him. “Because President Kuchma gave instructions, all documentation on pre-privatization training was completed on short notice. The document was taken to the Cabinet of Ministers, where Prime Minister Janukovic supported it.” But that's not all, I'm going to keep reading, because there are even more interesting places here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, I think I might advise Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov on some evening of memories or some creative evening, because I see that Yavorowski is not able to tell everything. Sergey Gordienko, the faction of the Communists of Ukraine has six minutes. Next up is Jaroslav Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u147	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It's not the first time I've had to speak out of this rostrum on millions of dollars worth of government damage because of the manipulation and opacity of Ukrainian oil auctions, and because of the implementation of this oil at reduced prices. As you will recall, by adopting the Ukrainian State Budget 2010 Act, we have clearly drafted article 3 of the law, which regulates the order of monthly sales of crude oil and gas condensate of our own Ukrainian production. For the first time in years, the level of start-up prices on market auctions began to be determined on the basis of the customs value of oil. According to the Ukrainian State Customs Service, 15 days ahead of the date of registration of bids for the holding of a stock auction. In addition, an allowance for the quality of crude and gas condensate oil, which unfortunately has not been installed by the Cabinet of Ministers to date, should be included. But the strange price policy of selling oil at auctions continues to live and flourish. For example, on the 141-D auction number held on May 31st of this year, the starting price of oil was somehow set to 4000 690 dollars per tonne, while the customs price was 5,000 413 dollars, i.e. 723 dollars more. For 658 dollars, Ukrainian oil was also sold at the next 141 auctions on June 22 of this year. Who would be responsible for such enormous losses, such a criminal waste of our country’s natural resources? This is not the first time we've talked about it. According to oil market experts, the Open Stock Company “Ukrnafta” 50+1 shares of which belong to the oil-producing State are selling it at the cost of raw materials, i.e. the starting price of the auctions is artificially reduced by the value added tax, i.e. 20 percent. So, respectable colleagues, respected radio listeners! If you read existing legislation, in particular the laws of Ukraine on the system of taxation and on value added tax, where it is clearly stated that rates, tax management mechanisms and congregations cannot be established or amended by other laws other than those on taxation. Such changes cannot be made by the State Budget Act for the year in question. So, taking into account especially the huge losses that have been caused to our state, which owns the control package of state-owned companies, I am addressing Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine, Fedor Jaroshenko, Minister of Economics Vasil Tsushka, Head of the State Tax Administration Alexander Papaika, who is required to ensure that effective legislation is enforced when auctions are made on Ukrainian oil sales, to give proper legal assessment to oil machines in Ukranaft, and to take appropriate measures to prevent the theft of public funds, which are thus insufficient for the country's budget at this difficult and critical time. I ask you to consider my speech as a request to the above-mentioned seniors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u148	Thank you. He would like to ask the machine to prepare an appeal and form of a parliamentary request to the appropriate officials, as our colleague Sergey Gordijenko said. I invite Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Next is Eugene Wolintz, a faction of Communists in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u149	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Yesterday at 23 p.m. on July 1st, 50 minutes, 50 deputies from the governing coalition of carcasses voted with 259 votes in their second reading on the basic principles of internal and external politics. And an hour earlier, only the text of this law was given out. At the last minute until midnight, there was a continuation of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and before that the broadcast of the session was turned off on both radio and television. The question is why this is happening. The Ukrainian People's Party claims that this is how the ruling coalition masks its actual actions and wants to prevent public awareness of what is going on. And there's actually an anti-constitutional coup. Because the text of this law questions that, according to article 10 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national language is the only national language, despite repeated statements by the President, the new President Viktor Yanukovic, that Ukrainian language will continue to be the only national language. I want to remind the governing coalition that in Belarus, the introduction of the second national Russian language has led to the fact that only 6 percent of Belarusians speak Belarusian. This law has changed the course of the state and the rate of Euro-Atlantic integration and the rate of NATO. I would like to remind you that it was in 2003 that President Janukovic was the initiator of the adoption of this draft law on NATO. The Ukrainian People’s Party claims that there is a very strange coincidence. On the one hand, the head of the Security Service claims that there is a threat to the life of the President of Ukraine, and it is at this very moment that there is a bill that changes the course of our state. The Ukrainian People’s Party therefore finds it unacceptable to vote in unclear circumstances. There was also an unprecedented event yesterday – 420 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u150	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u151	420 amendments to the opposition, and I would like to remind you that as a result of the previous elections, the opposition received the majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a change of course without. ignoring all the opposition's proposals is in fact the transition of today's power to opposition to its own people. The Ukrainian People's Party warns and considers it unacceptable to change this course and calls on the President of Ukraine to veto this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u152	Thank you. I think that this appeal by Jaroslav Jódzik should be prepared for the Regulatory Committee, for the head of the Regulatory Committee on the conditions for determining the adoption of the bill, because we have heard very serious arguments here about such a small number of deputies who were present and who were not broadcasting. That's a serious question. And I think you'll have to go to the President yourself. I would like to invite Eugene Wolintz, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine. Next, Yuri Kolocei, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u153	Dear President, distinguished voters, distinguished deputies! There has been a catastrophic situation in the system of remuneration for educational workers. I was approached by a teacher of general education schools in Kirovska Donetsk region. Until January this year, they received advance and salary on time, as indicated in the collective agreement. Decision No. 176, 178, 179 of 30.04.10 gives rise to changes in the collective agreement of these schools, changing the payment deadlines, but has applied these changes since the beginning of April-month. The changes have been made with the tacit consent of local pro-ghanizations. It is from April that payments begin to be delayed and not paid in full. Thus, 60 per cent and 10 advances for June were paid today for May 2010. There is a real risk that vacations may not be paid and their shareholdings will be repeated. All of this is explained by officials as follows. Due to the late adoption of the State budget for the tenth year, the city is required to transfer to the State budget within the limits of the 2009 regulations. And that's 749 thousand 200 bracelets a month. From January to March, 2 million 247,000 600. Another reason for the power is that, from 1 January, the miner's income tax fell from 15 per cent to 10 per cent, and the mayor's budget for the first quarter of the tenth year alone amounted to 3 million, 626,000 or 1 million, almost 209,000 per month. Officials are focusing on the state of affairs, the situation as of 1 January of the tenth year on accounts payable under protected budget lines of 359,000 bracelets, food of 152 thousand bracelets, medicine of almost 36,000 bracelets, and the living conditions of the city, the social sphere of the city had already been completely paralyzed before the adoption of the State Budget 2010 Act. Today, teachers are forced to go on free vacations, no replacements and hospitals, no circles and faculties are financed, owing to a lack of funds. People are placed on the verge of survival and are deprived of the opportunity to receive full pay on time and cynically, article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution is violated. The actions of the city authorities run counter to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education's assurances of full access to vacations, which are healthy during leave. A violation of article 21 of the Leaves Act, which states that leave is paid no later than three days before leave. Having checked the condition of payment to teachers in neighbouring mining towns, I would like to say that the education staff receive payment on time there. I would like to point out that Kirovsky's teacher was left with the right of the collective not to go on leave until the full amount of money was calculated among them. I also note that Kirovsky has been under close attention for more than two years now by the Communists of the Donetsk region. The inequity of the current city management has in its own time led to a shut-off of heating in January, a voluntary increase in heating tariffs, non-payment of wages, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u155	Today, the City's C.R.I. is conducting a public service audit and there is already a signal that this check is being carried out on top. It's three million greaves of understatement in the city's budget. It is time to stop, and if the preventive measures are not in place, more radical measures must be taken. I will initiate an audit of Kirovsko's economic and financial activities, as well as a indexing of the late payment to educational workers as required by the law and remind the city authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u156	Please complete the final sentence for four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u157	That such actions provide for both administrative and criminal responsibility. Thank you for your attention. The glory of Soviet Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u158	I would like to invite Yuri Kolocej, a faction of the Party of the Regions, next to Vladimir Yavorowski, who was given the word Alexander Steshenko. Please. Don't make any noise, because there's no way for the national MPs to hear it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u159	Thank you, Yuri Kolocay, Party of Regions. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine has all the conditions to defend its interests in the world effectively and consistently. The unity between the President of Ukraine, the government and parliament in the face of the coalition has brought political stability to the country. A new stage in Ukraine’s development, along with its restoration and expansion of the international image of our nation in the world arena, has begun. A friendly, partnership and mutually beneficial relationship with the countries of the world is the basis of an external political course of a strong, independent state and a credible strategic partner that Ukraine is. In their relationship with the Russian Federation, however, it is realistic to come up with a model that suits the interests of the two countries of the strategic partnership. At present, there are great opportunities for major projects in the field of economics, science and technology. But this is only possible because there is mutual help and search, not for what separates us, but for what unites us. A partnership with the United States is important for Ukraine. Viktor Yanukovic's meeting with Barack Obama in Washington in April of this year gave a new tone to the strategic dialogue between Ukraine and the United States. Ukraine’s cooperation with the European Union remains constructive and dynamic. European integration is not just one of the key priorities of our foreign policy, it is a strategy for systematic socio-economic reforms. The position of the President of Ukraine regarding NATO has become prominent in our relationship with the North Atlantic Alliance. Ukraine is a non-block state, the State's participation in any military and political union has a decisive, exclusive referendum based on the will of the entire Ukrainian people. With regard to the issue of National Security, I draw your attention to the need to build our security system on the basis of strengthening our friendships, with all the neighbors actively working on minimization of even potential threats. The time has come for an active relationship and a renewed political dialogue with China, India, and other nations. It is now in the order of our day state that we have a specific task, to fill in the practical content, first and foremost, of all the economic agreements and arrangements that have already been made, including with the European Union. Of course, many things need to be done, and the first important steps in this way are already taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u160	Thank you for your clear respect for the rules. I invite Vladimir Yavorowski, followed by Paul Movchan, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u161	I am grateful to my colleagues for giving me another word. So I continue to read this unique document, this is the Chechtov interrogation protocol, and you listeners continue the hearing process. I'm going to read on and it's going to happen again, it's going to read for a long time, but for now it's going to be 3 minutes: Chechotov's reply: “In addition, I received instructions from Ukraine's top officials, in particular as regards ‘Criogestali’, which I received from the former President of Ukraine Kuchma, namely, to accept and listen to the initiative of the People's Deputy Pinchuk concerning the privatisation of ‘Criovorostali’. Let me remind you that Pinchuk is Kuchma's son-in-law. “During my meeting with Pinchuk, I informed him that the Fund did not have the right to prepare privatization documents without a decision from the Government. After that, there was a repeat call by the former President of Ukraine, Kuchma, who ordered me to prepare documents for the privatization of the business. I did not contest the President's instructions, although I understood that for the interests of the State, the enterprise would be better in the possession of the State and would bring very substantial funds into the budget. Having received the President's team, I called on the Minister of Industrial Policy to prepare this facility. At the time, he was already aware of the issue and, I think, he had already been given such a team by former President Kuchma. As President Kuchma gave instructions, all the documentation.” - I stress that! “. all pre-training documentation was carried out in concise lines and therefore the Government's draft order for the initiation of the privatization of Krivorostali was taken to the Cabinet of Ministers on purpose.” “On purpose”, obviously in Russian exactly. “ That’s what I’m talking about. ” The draft was reviewed and approved at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and signed by Prime Minister Yanukovic.” See how this was done, “intentional” documents were literally sent. “In the pre-training process, the People’s Deputy Pinchuk repeatedly called and took an interest in the privatization process.” Do you have any idea how privatization took place in Ukraine? I'm still reading. Question: “How was the sale of the property of the Nikopolska Ferroplane factory carried out?” Answer: “What concerns the privatization of the Nicopolsky Ferroplane plant was President Kuchma's order to hear the question of the People's Deputy of Pinchuk.” It's a different object, it's a "Criminal" and it's a nicopol plant. “The bottom line was that he offered to use a sales scheme that had never been used before, namely, to sell part of the stock package 25 per cent, then 25 more, and with a priority right in the subsequent purchase of the package. The initial recommendation of the Ukrainian ex-president to accept Pinchuk was accepted by me as a team to help Pinchuk privatize the business. In this regard, special competitive conditions have been developed. Under these conditions, the enterprise was recognized as a winner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u162	Vladimir Alexandrovich, thank you. I think we're going to ask you then, let's say next Friday there's going to be a "Virgin" to continue, because people are waiting for a sequel. Then it's to the next drunkard. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u163	“The initial recommendation of the Ukrainian ex-president to accept Pinchuk was accepted by me as a team to help Pinchuk – help! - privatize the enterprise. In this regard, special competitive conditions have been developed. Under these conditions, the winner was an enterprise under the control of the People's Deputy of Pinchuku.” There will be more, honourable voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u164	Paul Mokchan, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, will be followed by national deputy Dmitri Schlemko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u165	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues! I listened to this work by Vladimir Alexandrovich, and I would like to propose that “20 minutes with Yavorowski” be devoted to this document. And all of Ukraine would remember that we survived and who is in power today. But I went out to the rostrum to remind us that on Monday we celebrated some very pale extraordinary event -- this is the adoption of the Constitution, whose next anniversary has shown that we are witnesses of how all the constitutional principles that have been called to defend the state, to protect the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, to raise deep respect for national culture, history, language, to all the democratic principles that are in every Constitution. Unfortunately, we can see that everything is blurry and very fast. The round table, which was organized by the All-Ukrainian Society of Education in the Writers' Association walls, read all the paragraphs concerning Ukrainian rights and rights of Ukrainians. What do we have? There's a lot of degradation in different areas. If we take the Ukrainian village, we see that today the village as the foundation of the nation is being destroyed and very intense. If a bottle of milk is in any supermarket today, you know its price is 7 bracelets, and it's selling a cash price of 70 copies, it's understood that scissors or price scissors that were run by the Soviet authorities, by the definition of Deputy Zinchenko's first call, these new scissors, they just caused the famine in 33 years. Ukraine’s village is degraded not only because it has a price policy but because it is wrong. If we talk about Ukrainian education, rural school, we see that today's aims of the Minister of Education -- to reform Ukrainian education in the countryside -- will lead to the closure of rural schools. If the FAPs are closed today, this signal will be sent to the Ministry of Health. If the FAPs are closed, rural schools will be closed, Ukrainian children in the village will be slaves who will be used by the tradesmen who took power in Ukraine. I'm not going to talk about the problems of history, the problems of culture is a separate page. Because when we said good-bye to the great man recently, with the genius of Ukraine, Yuri Gerasimovovich Illenck, who was actually killed in 20 years of inactivity, and he only came true for one third. This is a huge problem in the whole of our spiritual field. If the Ukrainian nation lost its cinematography. I'm not going to talk about the Ukrainian book.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u166	Thank you, Mr. Dmitri. Dear colleagues, I apologize because our colleagues are still waiting here. I'd like to invite you to the Dmitry Schlemk faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next is Andrew Pavlovsky. I'd like to invest in 3 minutes 6 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u167	Dmitry Schlemko, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of Fatherland. Dear fellow countrymen, honourable Galicians, it was your numerous letters of inquiry that forced me to ask a question to one of the parties that today did not constitutionally create, lead the parliamentary coalition and monopolize power in Ukraine. That's what it sounds like. Why did the Party of Regions declare war on Galicina? Did her superiors think this through? What is more, the following facts and actions of the regions, their spectacles, confirm. Today’s Minister of Education and Science, one of the ideologists of the Party of the Regions, states: “The Galicians are lakes who have barely learned to wash their hands, who practically have nothing to do with the people of the great Ukraine in either mental or religious or linguistic or political terms.” And this is about the descendants of the great Prince Danil Galicsky. On another occasion, the same professor claims from history to be even sharper and dirtier. I quote. “Today, as in 1941 and 1945, there are only us and them: civilization and savagery, culture and barbarism.” The main organizer of Euro Football 2012 is also the deputy head of the Kolesnik Region Party. “I am tired of Galician ideological occupation,” he says. You could quote an aggressive military statement about Galicians and many other regional leaders, but they expressed their thoughts in a cumulative way. It's the Baldiriev region. Hiding in Crimea behind an armed Russian fleet, he states to the whole state: “With its warehouse, the Galicina of Ukraine will never be a full state.” Isn't this convincing confirmation of the announcement of political war to the Galician people who, unlike the applicants, love their country, care for its integrity, sovereignty, democracy, European development, respect for their national leaders, Stephen Bander, Roman Suhevich, whom the regional Donetsk Court of Regionals is depriving the name Heros of Ukraine. And unless it's an economic blockade for Galician areas, such as Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv and Ternopil, to build socio-cultural objects in the current year, 43.32 million dollars from the state budget, while 500 dollars from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Odessa 200, Luganski and Donetsk are allocated to 100 million dollars. In the absence of time, I cannot list all the facts and actions that testify to the hatred of Galicia’s representatives of the Party of the Regions, supported by their silent eyes as a fish, including the President of Ukraine, who has never tamed his subjects. This is the president of whom the head of the Ivano-Frankow ODA, Vishiwanyuk, said: “He is Ukrainian Churchill to you. I must have forgotten that Churchill had united England, protected most of its interests, and our Churchill was disassociating the country for its national interests to the older brother of Russia. So the question why the Party of Regions declared war is, in my opinion, a simple answer. A desire to avenge her, to demonstrate her authority. After all, they cannot forget that it is in the town of Prikarpata that is a monument to an egg that in 2004 brought down the largest headmaster of the Party of the Regions. This proud tribe needs to be studied, as one of the region’s Galicians said. And for their seven percent contribution to the electoral basket of Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u168	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u169	in the presidential election. I want to tell the representatives of the Party of Regions and their leaders. You don't have to. Galicians love their daughter Ukraine so much that you do not intimidate them. They have tried various ways at different times. It didn't work. I'm sure it won't work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u170	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. He will be followed by Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u171	Dear fellow countrymen! Andrew Pavlovsky. I would like to address you in connection with my witnessing this morning in the Kyiv Court of Appeal. When allowed to continue the arrest of an honest man, Officer Makarenko, who had the courage for the benefit of our nation to crush 11 billion of the state’s gas. And what do we have? For giving the State 11 billion gas, which it rightfully owned, it is under arrest. And the Rosukrenerego criminal group took this gas and, what, the cost of this gas is $5 billion. $5 billion is 20 percent of the government budget! That's half of what we're under indignity asks Yanukovic and Azarov to join the International Monetary Fund. And how it happened. Because Naftogaz represented our state, and the leader of Naftogazu is actually Yuri Boyko, who is also a co-founder, partner of Firtash in “Rosukre Energo”. So he turned out to be a judge of his own. And then this is a criminal group called Rosukreenergo, which includes the co-founders and business partners of Firtasz – Ljowczyn, Horoshkowski, the same Boyko. Our nation’s leaders have stolen $5 billion from the state budget and are now breaking into their own pockets. So it should not be surprising that Yanukovic has approved reforms such as the increase in gas tariffs for the population, the price of higher housing services for higher retirement age, because they have no need to pay pensions, an increase in the pension age of 5 years, a restriction on payments to working pensioners, and the difference between most of the benefits, including black people. So we have to be honest with you, who, even though he counts himself as a patriot, is now in Ukraine with regard to ordinary Ukrainians insolently failing to fulfil their social obligations, we have an occupation power in the government, and we have to begin by restoring the national liberation of our Ukraine. And I'm offering to unite vertically to all the patriots. And together we must defend our national interests, the interests of the common people, and force this occupying authority to keep its social promises. Not that we are not currently implementing the Pay for Work Act, and 3.5 million budgeters are not getting paid, they are not paying at least 300 dollars, but qualified doctors, teachers - 500-600 dollars. Protect your interests, protect Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u172	I'd like to invite Yuri Odarchenko. He will be followed by Stanislaw Argewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u173	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear voters, people are now very happy that the centralization of power seems to be taking place in the country. Various surveys show that now the main gain of today's power is to increase the kind of monolithicity of this power. We need to examine clearly what this monolithicity is used for. Today we heard a speech by the deputy Yavorowski using this monolithic power of Kuchma when he gave his son - in - law Pinchuku the best businesses in Ukraine. Today, the same monolith of power, the same vertical structure, is being built. And there are absolutely visual indicators and evidence of what's really going on. Unless the Rosukrenerego affair, when the State of Ukraine in Boyko is not a party to the case, gives up the lawsuit and loses $5 billion -- that's actually the pension fund's budget. It's not a witness, it's a pseudo of monolithicity, because there's a loss on this claim, instead there's talk of increasing the retirement age for women. Dear friends, talking about any policy on rising retirement age, increasing working days is criminal, because these conquests are the conquests of generations, if you want the deaths and health of many thousands of people. And so we have to understand that this monolith of power, it's directed not at people, but against people. There are serious statements about what is necessary, I stress, talks are going not just, maybe, but they need to raise electricity tariffs to 86 copies, despite the fact that Ukraine has the cheapest electricity. At the district level, there is also a clear evidence of this monolithism of power when the authorities do not comply with the basics of the required law. According to Herson, there is a serious breach of legislation when the Jubilee Park in Hersson is being destroyed, oaks are being squandered, oaked, oaked, which is 50 years old. People protest. There is a serious violation of the laws of the city, of the environment. Regardless of that, the mayor, the head of the City Party, he goes against the people because he understands that he has patrons in Kiev, that he will be asked not about the trees, but how much he supports the powers of the Herson Party of Regions. Dear friends, I ask that my appeal regarding the violation of the law of a city park in Hersson city be an appeal to the prosecutor to finally respond to the violation of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u174	Thank you. Please form this parliamentary address. I would like to invite you, Mr. Stanislaw Arjevetin, to the floor. And it's going to end the hour of "Victory" by John Stojko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u175	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, and above all, our Ukrainian fellow Cossacks! In the Supreme Council, I have registered a bill, a Cossack Bill on the principles for the restoration and development of Ukrainian Cossacks, Cossack Organizations and their unification. The bill was co-authored by Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko. And I wanted to go from this rostrum to the Cossack community, to the concerned Ukrainians who are in pain of the Cossack movement, and especially to the MPs in the debate on this bill. The adoption of the bill will bring together the efforts of executive authorities, local self-government bodies, scientific institutions and Cossack organizations, allowing Cossack organizations to achieve the common goal of the development of Ukrainian Cossacks, its rebirth and, above all, the physical and sporting, military and spiritual upbringing of children and young people. The current problems in the current Cossack movement do not allow them to fully realize the powerful potential of Ukrainian Cossacks, to rekindle their best traditions in society, and to build Ukraine’s state. The Cossack movement is now distinguished, with 723 legal organizations registered, competing with 36 of the country’s international Cossack organizations. Today, there is no common goal or common paths to its development, which has led to the emergence in Ukraine of just as many distinguished organizations with signs of military formations, such as solid military entrails, weapons, pursuits, rewards. Today, Cossack traditions are freely interpreted, the ideologies of youth education are shaped, and even Cossack organizations join political processes, interfaith conflicts, interstate non-military conflicts. I don't think this is the task of our Cossack movement, and the state and society are looking forward to very different specific matters of Cossacking around young people. The bill will indeed bring together the efforts of the State, local communities, Cossack organizations, scientific, educational, and cultural institutions to revive Ukrainian Cossackism. So I invite all the Ottomans, Cossacks and citizens who are not indifferent to the development of the Cossack movement in Ukraine to see the content of this bill, which is posted on the Supreme Council website, to make their comments and suggestions. I particularly invite Ukrainian national deputies, who will obviously have their own alternative bills and invite us to a joint discussion, if necessary, we will pass a unified bill. Convinced that we have no differences, there are only difficulties in defining a clear model of its existence, its role and its location in modern Ukraine, so I invite everyone to cooperate in the preparation of the Cossack Constitution. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Ukrainian Cossacks!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u176	I'd like to invite John Stoick. And I'm finishing work at the "Variance" hour. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! John Stojko, the political party “For Ukraine!” With every day more and more people in Ukraine and beyond realize that the Yanukovic regime today poses a direct threat to our independence, European choice, and the rights of every Ukrainian and security of all Europe. The reforms announced today by Yanukovich remain simple and simple on paper. And in reality, the policy of this power is reduced to three components. The most important is the destruction of Ukrainian identity and our native language, the attack on human rights and the destruction of business freedom. The authorities are doing everything they can to prevent people from protesting against their own shameful actions and the influence of citizens on national politics. To that end, he tries to shut down the company to journalists by censoring on TV channels, taking frequencies from their own relatives, assigning their own relatives to the ruling clan, including members of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, conducting large-scale clean-up on public radio and television, and terrorizing today’s activists of the “Stop, Censorship!” movement, continues, again, the Tax Code, which destroys the possibility of free enterprise itself, and allows officials, in the event of its acceptance, to shut down businesses themselves, to take any amount of money from them and even to break into their private homes. To that end, Yanukovic is turning Ukraine into a police state, allowing the police to start peaceful meetings with impunity and to kill people with impunity. And the whole country has recently been struck by a brutal murder in the police veils of Kiev's student Igor Indil, a man far from politics at all. Today, though, we are told that a young man died from repeated falls, either from a chair or from a bench. Again, this was a further demonstration of the savagery of today’s regime by an attempt to ban the entry into Ukraine of the head of the German Adenauer Niko Lange Foundation, which was held in Borispol for 10 hours. This provocation, in my opinion, is aimed at damaging relations with Europe, threatening representatives of non-state organizations, and by the way, it has already received a sharp assessment of both the German MSA and European politicians. Interestingly, Janukovic and Horoshkovsky are not allowed into Ukraine by representatives of a respected international organization, yet they are opening their arms to Luzkov, Zadljina, and other open enemies of our state. And what's more, they're officially allowing the FSB to work in Ukraine today, which is illegal. So today's regime does not hide shows that it is not easy to set up a dictatorship, and it will be in the interests of the neighboring State in the interests of the Kremlin. The Party “For Ukraine!” is convinced that this will not be the case for long, and we will do everything we can to protect Ukraine from this grief.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-02-m0.u178	Thank you, dear colleagues, the hour has ended for the question “Victory”. I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary next week. The next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, July 6, and, as always before, Monday, July 5, at 11 a.m., the Conciliation Council will meet. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
