ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Enable the “Race” system. [[10:00:44]] Cards were registered in the 396 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on December 23, 2010. 36 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration of 9 laws and 18 regulations, 7 bills were adopted on the basis of which 2 bills were returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 1 bill and 5 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been adopted in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an “hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of the deputy faction made a proposal during the "hour of questions to the government" to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the prospect of pension reform in Ukraine. Deputies: The Party of Regions and the Block of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – corresponding to part six of Rule 229 of the Rules – were informed in writing by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions that will be raised during the hour of questions to the Government. Therefore, honourable colleagues are invited to organize our work in this way. The answers to the written questions are half an hour. If they are exhausted earlier, more time will be spent asking questions directly from Ukraine’s national deputies. Today, during the "hour of questions to the Government", the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine represents the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy Tighipko Sergey Leonidovich, and the responsible officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I invite you to answer the question of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy Tihypco Sergio Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u2	Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, present! I got a question from two factions: "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the Party of Regions. First question. “December 13 – this is the question of ‘Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense’ – on December 13 the government registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the so-called reform of the pension system. He's been unavailable for more than a week. Why was the text of the pension reform bill so long hidden from the public? Was the government afraid to destroy society as it destroyed its tax code project? Does the negative position of millions of citizens with regard to the pension changes that have been made for Kabmin mean nothing? And he's not going to count with her?" What I'm saying is that we've come up with purely technical questions. And that's why we took the draft bill. Now it's back, it's public. As of December 21, Minpraci began a public discussion of this law. Perhaps all Ukrainian citizens can call the hotline on pension reform issues, this phone: 0-800-500-392. On business days: 9-00 to 18-00. All calls in Ukraine are free. And to the contact center of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which has a phone: 0-800-503-753. This phone works on business days from 8-00 to 20-00, Saturdays from 8-00 to 14-00, Sundays from weekends. Second question. “3 November you stated that Ukraine has refused to increase pension age, perhaps. That Ukraine has refused to increase the retirement age for women. According to you, the government has found compensation for the incomes that were planned for the Pension Fund from an increase in the retirement age for women. Why does retirement age still rise? Where did the compensators go?" What I'm saying is that from what we've just proposed in this bill, in the first year we're going to get an extra 1.8 billion dollars into the pension budget. I can say that, of course, this figure on the budget for the next year -- 203 billion dollars -- is going to have a slight impact. But what I'm trying to say is that the pension reform itself has been targeted, first and foremost, in the medium and long term. Its main goal is to raise people's pensions. And make this pension worthwhile in the medium term. For the record, today's pension is only 65, the average pension in Ukraine is 65 percent higher than the minimum of living. If you take European countries, this is four times the cost of living in those countries. The more suffering is not the pensioners we assign today, but the more suffering is those who have been assigned 15, 10, 20 years. If we have a deficit, with such a budget deficit, we can't retire these people. So all of the compensators that we counted were targeted, literally, for a year and a half. And when it comes to the medium term perspective, the key question here is the ratio of working people to pensioners. This ratio, I want to tell you, is getting worse in the country all the time. And if the number of pensioners today is 13 million 700, the people who work, who pay contributions to the Pension Fund, today make up 14 million 400. And if we take another year 2006, the workers who paid the pension contributions were 15 million 859,000, and the number of pensioners was about 13 million 800. So we need whatever we do, however, to achieve an increase in the number of people who work. And that's why we took these steps, thinking, first of all, the medium-term perspective. Most of all, it's going to work in five or ten years. “As experts point out, if an increase of 10 years is proposed for retirement under the age of 30 and 35 for men according to the same 10 years, overtime will be reduced, and the Pension Fund will pay overtime allowances on a smaller scale. This, of course, will result in a monthly decrease of several tens of dollars in wages for virtually all pensioners in Ukraine. Please, please, how much will pensioners not be able to pay as a result of these allowance manipulations? What kind of savings will the Cabinet of Ministers have on pensioners?" I wanted to draw the attention of the national deputies that, first of all, no changes proposed for pension legislation touch those pensioners who have already been appointed. Those people who already got their pensions, all of them, all of the categories, they're all going to get the pensions that they got. Nothing short of them is foreseen. This is forbidden by the Constitution, and so they will receive all the pensions they received. For newly appointed ones, yes. When a new pension is granted, overtime will be calculated for men, not from 25 years of age, but from 35 years of age, and for women, not from 20 years of age, but from 30 years of age. Overages are calculated in this way: it is added to a work pension that is assigned. And it's going to be counted this way: it's going to be taken by the average. Takes a person's assigned pension, multiplied by 1 percent of every overworked year that man has worked, but it shouldn't exceed. This shouldn't be more than a 7-breed 34-breed for the time being. So in 1 year, so as much as she can lose, if she's going to have overtime, in 1 year, that's 7 bucks. Thank you. “Is it true that, as reported in the media to Ukrainian citizens who for some reason have not earned 15 years of retirement pensions, the social pension is not intended to increase to a subsistence minimum for disabled people by way of targeted assistance? How will they survive?" As for those people who don't have minimum insurance, and this internship is now going to be predicted not for 5 years, but for 15 years, they're going to have to turn to social protection. All people in Ukraine today have the right to receive a minimum subsistence minimum of 734 bracelets. Since January 1, it's going to be 750 dollars. And because of social protection management, they're going to get credit or they're going to get social benefits. In fact, they will not lose out on such a calculation either. Next. “Retirement reform provides for the elimination of the right to early retirement and the principle of accounting for two years in dangerous enterprises. Did the government foresee, by making such proposals, the possibility of mass liberation from the Armed Forces, the militia, and the harmful enterprises that had already begun? What will be the outcome of the release of the most experienced employees of these institutions and enterprises?" Once again, I want to say that exactly the whole pension reform is about making a person work longer. And I can say that I hear a lot of rumors now, but, if I say so specifically, for all the working pensioners who work today, everything stays the same way as it is, they'll continue to work. Moreover, those working pensioners who retire after the adoption of this law will virtually live as well. All the military are in the same way, all the people who have special pensions, except for the civil servants and the categories that are compared to them. What will change for government officials and categories like them? This category of people gets a pension today, which is based on a different principle. It counts as an average wage. It's like the average wage in the last two years and it's multiplied. Which multiplied by the coefficient to 90, took up to 90 percent. Now this coefficient is going down to 80 percent. But if a person wants to continue his work, his pension will not be counted according to the general principle. So this rate of substitution -- this ratio of her salary to her pension -- is going to be about 50 percent compared to the average in Ukraine right now. So she's going to get about 50 percent of her salary and she's going to get a salary. For the military, everything stays the way it was. There's nothing to get rid of. Because when it comes to military and all categories that are compared to them, there are virtually two standards that change for the military. The first is that it's increasing from 20 to 25 years of age, as it was in Soviet times for the military, and it's reducing the maximum potential for military pensions, which until now, were equal to 90 percent of their income. For military pensions, after 20 years, benefits multiplied by 3 percent, adding 3 percent to the pension. This principle is now entirely for the military, but pensions cannot be higher than 80 percent, so far there have been more than 90 percent of their earnings. All the military payouts remain. All the military who retire can work and receive a full pension in their workplaces. I mean, nothing like that changes, a lot of rumors, I would ask for attention and an explanation. “Representatives of the government talk a lot about the planned savings of the maximum pension. It is known that it is proposed to set 12 living minimums for the disabled. Is it true that the Constitutional Court’s decision will only affect those who have been pensioning since January 1, 2011? Explain what the actual amount of money saved by this article will be and why the bill makes exceptions to government members?" First, the bill does not make any exceptions to maximum pensions for any category. The bill stipulates that the maximum amount of pensions in Ukraine, which is now unlimited, will amount to 12 subsistence minimums. 12 living minimums immediately after the law is passed. It will only touch newly appointed pensions. Those people who have already retired by now will receive these pensions. We cannot under the Constitution, under article 22 of the Constitution, aggravate the social situation for people. Therefore, what has been appointed will remain. One standard that we have proposed for these pensions will not be indexed, and their pension will not increase until it reaches the 12 minimum rates. It won't reach 12 living minimums. Such a maximum pension today would be seven. Eight million 808 dollars. That would be the maximum pension in Ukraine if this law were passed now. Eight thousand 800 dollars. Eight thousand 800 dollars. These are all questions of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The other one. Questions from the faction of the Party of Regions about further reform of the pension system. "Is not the authorities planning to start a pension reform on their own? What will it turn out to be for civil servants?” I want to say it again and say it again. I think we're partially restoring some social justice by adopting this, by adopting this law. Once again, first of all, the maximum pension size is set at 12 subsistence minimums. It will be made up if the law is passed today, 8 thousand 808 pennies. The other one. An increase in the period during which salaries are calculated for civil servants. Now the wages have been accounted for in the last two years, the bill provides, if that were, for the last 60 months. Third change. Deduction of the maximum percentage to determine the size of the pension, so-called substitution coefficient. I said that now it's 90 percent of the government employee's earnings, or the categories that are comparable to them, are going to be as much as 80 percent. Payment of special pensions is the fourth position. When the work continues to be carried out only in the size of a work pension. I said it's not going to count because of the rate of substitution, it's not going to be 80 percent, it's going to be calculated as it is for all the other people who have their average pension. The second question is, "Will the gap between oversized and minimum pension sizes be eliminated, if so, how is this planned to be achieved?" I said, basically, what's at the top of this is that we're limiting the maximum pension. And if we can literally reduce the budget deficit in a few years, then we can come actively enough to significantly increase the minimum pensions. “Is it intended to limit pensions to working pensioners, if so, in what way?” Once again, all the working pensioners who are working today, and that's about 3 million people, they're practically not going to feel any change, the law doesn't predict that working pensioners are going to lose anything. I want to go back to the miners, to the military, to the other people who are working today. The government is just interested in having these people in the workplace, because they're primarily paid to the Pension Fund, and nobody wants them to go. This will affect only those categories that refer to government officials, plus the 10 categories that compare to them. So I said we're going to talk about how this category is going to be able to get an extension of its work, not a substitution factor of about 80, which is not 80 percent of the pension that. Not a pension equivalent to 80 percent of their earnings, but about 50 percent. That's it. Salary -- he'll be able to work, he'll get a salary. The bill for civil servants and for categories comparable to them also states that the retirement age for men is expected to increase for civil servants from 2013 to 2. For 2 years. And then there's the third question. “How long will there be the practice of walking people in enterprises, organizations and institutions to obtain the salary manuals of 10-20 years of age needed to form pensions by the bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine? How do we now have a pension?" People, all the people who are working today and who have been working since 2000 already have a so-called personalized account. The pension fund has paid wages and contributions to each individual since 2000. This system has been in operation since 1998, but since 2000, it has been working for all working people. In order to get a pension today, people are getting help on these personalized accounts and looking for five more years before that. We are now introducing a rule that only personalized accounts will account for the pension. For those who did not work at that time, the principle remains what it was before. They can take up a period of work that they have not had since 2000, and take appropriate years to do so. Next. “What changes in legislation should education, culture and health workers be expected?” What I'm saying is, for these workers, there's still a rule that they can retire in almost the same way over the years. They are now from 25 to 30 years of age. Some categories are up to 30, and most of the time everyone has the opportunity, after 25 years, to get out and get a pension if they don't continue to work. The same norm remains, but we're introducing a serious enough standard for these categories. What is foretold? When a person gets a full-time job and retires, this applies to teachers, doctors, and cultural workers, once with his pension he gets 10 pensions. On the average, if a teacher today receives about 1,200 dollars of pension when he retires, he will receive the first 12,000 dollars with his pension. This is a standard that we have established to compare teachers, doctors, and cultural workers to government officials and comparables. We also need to encourage these people to work longer. I can tell you that this will only affect people who will have full retirement. Mr. Head, these are all questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u3	Thank you, Sergey Leonidovich. Please, we have 8 and 3, 38, 40 minutes left. Sign up for questions. Yes, please, Ruslan Knazevich. Prepare Odarchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Paul Zebrovski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u5	Paul Zebravsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u6	Mr. Sergei, pension reform has, in principle, to determine some kind of social justice. Today, there are different categories of people with different rates of retirement. And, of course, colleagues are absolutely right that starting a pension reform is something that needs to be done by us. And in fact, since the majority of the population of Ukraine count 1.35 percent per year worked, it would not be right for us to record the same pension system: 1.35 per year worked. He wants the state to pay the civil servants, the military, to raise their wages. You're implementing what's called administrative reform. Shortening the number of people -- you increase your salary, you do a prestigious job, you pay high-paid civil servants, and you pay 1.35. And then you will have a moral right, we will have a moral right to speak, including to private entrepreneurs: pay in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u7	Thank you. Thank you for asking, Mr. Zebravski. You know, that would certainly lead to an improvement in the Pension Fund budget. But I can tell you that we have not taken such a drastic step, because we are afraid to lose and so far we do not have enough prestige for the public service. To be honest, today’s wage on public service is not that great. Today, the average government wage is $2,000,400. And basically people, if they're holding on to the public service, primarily because there's a fairly high pension. We didn't take that step today. If this is accepted by the members of the Supreme Council, I can say that it can be viewed positively by people. But from that point of view, in my view, the public service will be lost. I want to say that MPs and their comparable categories are going to lose enough. Because if you take the average pension of those deputies who are retired today, it's more in Ukraine, a little over 16,000 dollars. If we limit 8,800 now, these are practically new deputies who are going to get out, they're going to get about half of that pension. All of them, they're practically going to lose enough. But they're just new assignments. If you decide to take it even harder, it'll be the MPs' decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u8	Please, Odarchenko, prepare Chechchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u9	I give the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u10	Sergey Leonidovich, I have two. Or two questions or two problems. The first problem is the question. Does the government not calculate the situation that reform is impossible without the consent of Ukrainian society? To date, about 95 percent of citizens are opposed to the sounding of pension reform, especially because of higher retirement age and so forth. In the Supreme Council, we decided to hold parliamentary hearings on February 16. Instead, I understand that the logic of the President and the government that pension reform has already begun without Parliament and without society. Since February 1, there has been an increase in pensions. It's already in the budget. Do we really want to go back to tax reform? What will society and parliament and experts put before the fact that we have been resolved without us? And second position. It is not obvious that in order for pension reform to be successful, a job creation programme must first be designed to provide the maximum number of people with jobs. Because to increase their employment after retirement means to put them on the street. Where will they work these 35 years if there are no jobs? So my question. Wouldn't it be right: (a) to get the consent of society, experts, parliament, then to declare; and (b) to develop a job creation programme by raising the minimum wage and then working with pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u11	Thank you. As for the discussion, we predict that we will be holding meetings all January. All of February, we'll be meeting with experts, with people, with representatives of different categories, different professions. And the 16th will be the hearing. After that, first and second reading. I'm sure in two months we'll be able to hear people. If I speak today, what I hear, even today, was being approached by national MPs, what they're saying is rumors. There are no such moments in the proposals that we, the Cabinet of Ministers today, have submitted to the Supreme Council. I think in two months we'll be able to answer these questions. We have now prepared 3-4 experts from each area of the Pension Fund, 3-4 social service professionals in every area to be able to conduct such meetings, to go to the facilities. to answer people to the media. But once again, I want to say that we have an extremely difficult situation with regard to the pensions that our people are receiving today. I want to say that today, our pensions, our average pension is the average pension, I mean, 65 percent higher than the minimum of living. It's four times bigger in Europe. If we want to make a difference for pensioners, and first of all, I'm paying attention, for the very poor pensioners -- these are the very old people who have been assigned a pension for 20, 15 years, and who are practically living on the poverty line, we have to carry out a pension reform. What is pension reform? The main issue of pension reform is the change in the ratio of workers to pensioners. Our trends today show. I want to tell you what we're doing with those payers who pay the pension fund contributions. In 2006, there were 15 million 859, 2007 -- 15 million 619 already, 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u12	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u13	15 million 200, 2009 fourteen-three hundred, now fourteen-four hundred twenty-eight. There's been a slight increase in the number. And the number of pensioners: thirteen eight hundred, thirteen eight hundred, thirteen seven hundred, thirteen seven hundred, thirteen seven hundred. It's practically on the same level. As if we're not spinning, if we want to improve the situation for pensioners, we need to find more working people. We have a solid system. The solidarity system means one thing: All workers must ensure a normal level of pensions for pensioners. And so every time. So we still think, for two years, we're going to have an open discussion. Two months to have an open discussion of listening to people, taking into account all the suggestions, observations, and still going this way; otherwise, we'll freeze the situation for the poor Ukrainians themselves. I don't think we have the right to do that. As far as jobs are concerned. We have a trend today: 9.1 percent of unemployment we have had since the beginning of the year, now the situation is 8.5, on average across Europe is 9.8. The situation is getting a little better. But we have to find jobs in different ways, of course, this legalization, of course, is economic growth. But if we don't raise our retirement age, we won't be able to do it either. This is done by all countries in practically Europe. You see, eight out of ten countries are doing this today because there's no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u14	Please ask: Do not ask such large questions as to avoid breaking the rules. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u15	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! Do you know how powerful the current power is? She's strong in specific matters. The power, however, is not afraid to take reform steps, even to the detriment of its rating, knowing that it is necessary for the country to do so. But do you know how we lose the opposition? The opposition is weak in specific cases, the opposition is strong in defamation, in defiance of the country, in defamation of power, in defamation of reforms. We lost the information site. You see, only a few days ago, the law was published, and almost six months ago, dirt has been shed on what is unknown. Therefore, we must not lose the information war. And here you have, you've said absolutely right, to think about a lot of awareness, to tell people the truth, because people won't see the main rational grain behind this dirt, as they didn't see in tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u16	You know, we are actively preparing to address this reform. We have very good analyses that have been prepared with scientists in Ukraine. We have taken and have had good experience in reforms in other countries. I hope that we will have a very good hearing in Parliament. Today, what we have proposed is a product, first of all, of Ukrainian specialists, including, first of all, scientists, who wanted to make these changes long enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u17	Please, Demchishen. Behind him is Bolura.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u18	Thank you. Please give the floor to Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u19	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! Well, the biggest claim of opponents to future pension reform is the retirement age. Two arguments they say. First argument. Increasing retirement will result in the tiredness of our people, men, and women. It makes sense, really, you're tired. But I'm asking you a question: why do almost 3 million people work after retirement? It's understandable why, too, because there's a low level of pay. And second moment. New jobs for young people. I'd look at it as the head of the social policy subcommittee, who is working today, 70 percent of the women, including courtship categories, janitors, nurses. So young people don't go to these jobs, they have to create new jobs, they're attractive. So what I want you to do is explain to everyone what's going to be positive about what's going to increase the retirement age every year? What would be the economy of the funds that are going to be the allowances?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u20	First, when we propose to raise the retirement age, we suggest that we do it gradually. For women, when retirement age rises, this age will increase by six months in a year. So an increase of 5 years is going to be done in 10 years. In every six months, a woman who works longer will receive 2.5 percent of her pension. The latter, who will retire in 10 years, will receive 25 percent of their pensions. What I'm saying is that today our women get a much lower average pension than men do, including because they work less, before they retire. After that, they find it difficult to get a job. And so after that, they find the most difficult, very underpaid job. The average pension today is 1,300 dollars for a man, 850 dollars for a woman, about. So it's a very big gap. By doing so, we will also improve the situation. The same applies to military personnel. When we said that we're increasing the length of years, it's going to take place gradually, year after year, year after year, year after year, from 20 to 25 in five years. So we don't want to do something all of a sudden. When we say that we're increasing the retirement age for men of state service, we're saying that it's going to be brought about in 2013 to now quietly carry out administrative reform, to shorten those people, I'd say, naturally. And after that, it's more and more possible for them to work and start with just the male civil servants. What I'm saying is that we've restricted it, and then we've restricted the work of civil servants. We are banning, practically, the continuation of the public service, 62 years and no extension, to retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u21	Please, Bolura. Follow her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u22	"Julia Tymoshenko" - "Fatherland". Antonina Boloura. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, it is clear that the rapid adoption of pension reform is necessary because we all speak and hear that the pension deficit is very large. Once again, though, reform involves pressure and the translation of problems into the population. The main source of the Retirement Fund is the deduction of wages. More than half the business is in the shade. Hence, the Pension Fund is not being filled out of all these salaries. As the main reformer of Ukraine, you have offered a great deal, including reforms that would lead businesses out of the shadows. This is what we need to do in order to fill the Pension Fund. What have you managed to do on this path, and how will this change the situation? Not only are payments cut, but so are they.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u23	Mrs. Bolura, thank you for asking. In fact, if we analyze what's happening to the deficit of the Pension Fund, we'll see in 2009, if we borrow everyone from the Cabinet of Ministers who've been funded by the Cabinet of Ministers from the budget, they've made 30 billion. This year, the pension deficit will be 26.6 billion. I mean, as of today, the Pension Fund has ended its year, we've paid all the pensions to all the Ukrainians. That is, we have fulfilled our obligations under the Pension Fund. If the pension reform we're proposing is adopted, the pension deficit in 2011 will be 18 billion, if not, about 20 billion dollars. In fact, how can it be overcome – only by a number of workers. How to increase the number of workers is, of course, economic growth is the best indicator. And if we add 4.5 percent this year, plus minus a little bit over there, next year we're going to have 4.5 percent with you again. So we're going to see this number of people right now, and I'm predicting that this is going to be about 1 million people coming to their jobs right now. I mean, since the beginning of the year, we've had a sevenfold reduction in the number of people who worked, on forced vacations, and twice the number of people who worked part-time has doubled. These are good signs. But when it comes to childization, I want to tell you this, we have about 41 percent of all social funds, one of the biggest indicators all over Europe. I'm saying roughly, because there's a plus-minus. When we talk about the pension fund, that's 35 percent. One of the biggest credits in Europe. What experts say. Experts say that if you want to achieve childishness, you want to reduce that percentage. But on the other hand, they also say that if we want to lower these rates, we need to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u25	Thank you. So that's what you have to do in two cases. First, or when we have a good economic growth, it's at least 6-7 percent, or when we have a balanced pension fund, even if we go to zero. And so now we're going to try to take these first steps. We predict that the 2014 maximum, if nothing changes in the economy, if there is no such growth, we will balance the Pension Fund budget in 2014. And if there's economic growth, we can do it faster. If there's an increase of 6 to 7 percent next year, we're going to suggest lowering these loads by at least 2 to 3 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u26	Please, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u27	Mikhailo Kossov, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Reforms and Order. Sergey Leonidovich! You said that these mobilisation measures, which will be carried out as a result of the adoption of the Pension Code, would amount to 1.7 billion dollars. Again, you said that the pension deficit is 26 billion dollars. So to compare these two numbers, the first one is very small. By what means are you, the government, trying to mobilize these funds? By changing retirement age. But if the average age of life for our fellow countrymen is barely enough to reach retirement age, is it worth doing this today and should it not be appropriate to go the way many countries are doing in order to set pensions: the highest level cannot exceed the lowest level, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u28	First. I'd like to tell you that the measures we've proposed will give us about 0.2 percent of GDP. This is about what we said on the rise. But 10 years from now, this is going to be about 1.8 GDP. Because each year, the number of people who retire later means that the number of people who work will continue to increase. I want to say that for comparison. Today, the pension fund for GDP is going to be at the end of the year, which was 18 percent in that year, and this year is going to be about 16.4. Other countries with more balanced pension funds have about 10 percent in terms of GDP. We used to have these times when we had 8-10 percent in terms of GDP. That means 10 years from now, if we go to this level, we're going to have this decision that we're going to make, 1.8 percent of GDP. And this is already about 1/6 of the entire pension fund budget, it's extremely important and extremely important. Now the second one. Unfortunately, we're confused about two things: middle age. The average age of a person in Ukraine takes into account all the risks of a person’s life before his natural death, in fact, he makes up for men there for about 63 years, and for women more. But when we talk about pension reform, we have to talk about other concepts, these concepts are called how long a person lives after he reaches retirement age. And I want to say that men in Ukraine live today, after retirement, on average 14 years, and women live on average 25 years after retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u29	Please, Eugene Volintz will pass it on to Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u30	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, Head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear reporter, please tell us how European standards of retirement correspond to 60-65 years with our "African" standards of life expectancy, health care, wages, well, in the end, quality of life. Second question. The way in which the concentration camps, young people who enter into life today, are looking for work, because those places that they can count on in connection with retirement are now occupied. And a very short trailer before that. Sergey Leonidovich, you understand that you are now acting on the principle of the famous Roman emperor who claimed that money will not smell. Do you really think money doesn't smell? I don't think so, because they don't just smell, they smell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u31	You know, it's hard for me to answer questions that aren't specific. If there's anything specific, let's talk specifically. If you were talking about something so general, you wouldn't want to. I can tell you that when we talk about jobs, I've given you a tendency. Since the beginning of the year, we've had an international unemployment rate of 9.1 percent, now we have 8.5 percent, the unemployment rate. On the average, today’s unemployment rate is 9.8 percent in Europe. I can tell you that for two years this problem will be gone. And I think we're going to have another problem that's going to be called labor shortages. And they had this problem in 2007. All over the country, we lacked a structure, a builder, and so forth. And this is a very serious job. That's why we don't see any problems creating for working retirees, especially at school, for example, in a hospital where all the professionals know that a better teacher is just a teacher who already has a good experience. That's why I think what we're doing today in pension reform is primarily directed at the poor themselves. And if we're not talking about popular action, but if we're even a little bit of a solidarity society today, those working, those people who have the power today should be helping pensioners, and that's exactly what this pension reform is about. It is designed to support the very age - old pensioner who is no longer able to work today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u32	Dig in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u33	George Prokopchuk, “BUT – “Fatherhood”, Equality. Minister, you were talking about some hotline phones. I want to tell you, I'm taking half an hour, and they're not answering. And essentially. Why do you and the Party of Regions hate military and other forces? Your entire pension reform is that you're robbing people of the service. So you're reducing their pensions by 10 percent. I want to give you 90 percent of the pension, above all, the right to receive those who were at risk of life and health. It's a combat team, it's a flight warehouse, it's a sailor, it's a special division of the Air Force, it's a specialty unit, it's something else, it's something else. I'd like those authors and you to be in hot spots and fly a fighter plane and so on. Then these authors would never have waved at holy things. You're breaking up an army. You're breaking down the power structures that are being released by packs today. And what's the fate of Chernobyl's pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u34	Thank you. You know, I wouldn't be so hot, because I'd like to just study the document that was published today. We need to study him. Why? Because the document foresees one deterioration: an increase in seniority from 20 to 25 years. Moreover, what was counted every year after 20 years remains. What's the score? The military was given 50 percent of his salary and paid 3 percent each year. That's all that's left. All those hot spots that people will have, they're all left. When we calculate the duration of his service, they all count, and I can say, ask and show me, please, military personnel who had a retirement rate of 90. And I can tell you, it's a general warehouse. It's a general warehouse. The Chernobyls stayed there and so on. These categories are all left. So for the overwhelming majority of military personnel, it will not touch them at all, absolutely. I can tell you that today the average length of military service is 27 years old, 27 years old. We predict 25, as was the case in Soviet times. So in no way will this affect the power of the ministries, the people who work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u35	Najonov's handing over to Kzarykov. Egorka prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u36	Sergey Leonidovich, you asked specific questions from the factions. We want to make it clear that you, as a billionaire minister, sold two of your Swedish banks and sold your offshore insurance company, if I'm not mistaken. And how much exactly did you pay for the Pension Fund and the State budget? Specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u37	You know, you know, if we're talking about pension reform, let's talk about pension reform. Insurance companies haven't sold yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u38	Please turn on the King's microphone. I asked, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u39	We asked how much was paid to the Pension Fund. This has to do with my constituents, my pension, the pension of the military. That's why I want to know the amount. I get paid in Parliament. I see it's written that much I paid to the Pension Fund. I wonder how much my minister paid for the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u40	You know, I'm filling out a declaration. I'll fill in, if you're interested, you can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u41	Yegorenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi. Gordienko's next one will tell Schmel to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u44	Dear Sergio Leonidovich, you can't say that Ukraine has done nothing or improved the pension system. I want to remind my fellow MPs that are not the first to be called. When Ukraine felt what other states of Europe were at risk of echoes, the second echo of a demographic disaster, it was extremely difficult for us to introduce pension insurance in our time. Colleagues, if we didn't have a pension insurance, we'd have to look up 190, 200 billion dollars a year from the budget. That's the pension insurance, that's the one that's saving the pension system right now. But Law 7455, tell everyone here -- it's not a pension reform, it's an attempt to start a pension reform that was stopped in 2005. The second level is stockpiling mandatory, the third level is voluntary stockpiling. Please tell Sergey Leonidovich whether the government has a clear program of understanding in stages.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u45	Thank you. Indeed, the recent events, especially the crisis, have shown that the pension system is solid and extremely fragile in terms of crisis. There's a sharp reduction in the number of jobs, and those who get a pension, well, if they don't have a problem, it runs into the budget. You can do it again, you can do it better at level two. But that's the problem. What is the second level? The second level is people or employers start counting on a person's personal account at first 2 percent, and then up to 7 percent. That's what we predicted. And this money can be used by a person on a personal retirement basis. Moreover, it can leave this money to its children — that is, it is a legacy of this money. But let's face it, every single bracelet that counts is going to make the situation of the solidarity system even worse. I mean, what we're predicting right now. First. The first step is to quickly balance the solidarity system itself. What's more, next year we'll try to see. Because today the Pension Fund, to be serious, is paying off some money that is not in his possession. It adds, let's say, to the minimum of living pensions. And it's not a solidarity system, it's not pension payments, it's social benefits. And I think they should be transferred to the state budget, not to the pension fund. If we do that next year, we can speed up the transition to the second level of retirement. And that's what we're going to do. One thing I can say is that this should be treated with extreme weight. Of course, years from now it's predicted that if we can do that, I think we can get into that system in 2013. If we just balance it up. And then go and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u46	Please, Schmelova. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u47	Schmelova, U.K.A. In order for your planned decent pensions to become so, it is essential to put in place State control over prices first. Do you plan to take under strict control the price when and how it will be done? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u48	State control over prices is certainly very difficult to keep in the market economy. Because there's a tinnitus of the economy right now. But what is now provided by the Cabinet of Ministers' decisions, we control what is called socially sensitive goods. And there's a maximum price for these goods. And today's price inspection, the price inspection, is making sure that the goods transferred in the official trade don't have a higher price. Thank you. But I want to, I can tell you that this is a much deeper situation. When we study the price situation, we see that, first of all, it's an infrastructure problem. Every year, prices go up very fast in autumn, which means we just don't have one infrastructure of cheap warehouses. The vegetables are all practically destroyed, there are no refrigerators suitable, and so on. This is where we need to stimulate this sector right now so that there's storage, so that we don't go into import, so that there's no such road trip. Because at first everything travels, after that prices don't usually come back, in our basket that determines inflation, over 60 percent is food, and it's all that affects it. We now foresee appropriate steps in government to ensure that this does not occur. Thank you. I mean, to systematically solve this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u49	Ivan Hare, please. After him – Turmanov
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u50	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! The government’s pension reform essentially referred to two things: an increase in retirement age and an increase in retirement. One of the arguments the government explains about the need for such a pension reform is the reference to the experience of European countries. Does the government not understand the difference between Ukraine and European countries? What ends the pension reform in democratic countries, the Ukrainian government begins it. Why not start with the government’s implementation of expensive labor policies? And in the solidarity system, the higher wages, the higher the pension fund. But the oligarchs may not be comfortable. Why don't we start work on the childishization of the economy? A 10 percent reduction in the shadow of the economy will cover the deficit of the entire Pension Fund. Why not eliminate inequity in the payment of pension taxes to the poor and the rich? Some pay from all pay, others pay from all pay. So let's face it, let's face it, this reform will fall on the shoulders of the poor and, above all, on the women who always keep three corners in the Ukrainian house.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. I want to say that today’s retirement age that we are working today was established in Soviet times in 1929. In 1929, the decree established that men would work for 60 years and women 55 years. I'm not going to talk about health care, about life expectancy, about living conditions for people at the time. During this time, we did not change that. Now we see, really, that this is serious enough for us, but it's not the only way out. And when we say that we need to change the ratio of workers to retirees in order to improve the lives of these pensioners in order to get more into the solidarity system, we're talking first of all about economic growth. I was here this time, I reported, I was used to reporting to you, and I'm happy to come here, and I said that there are three positions today that could have a serious impact on economic growth. First position. We need to balance the budget. And it is pension reform that is a complex reform that will also help balance the budget. Second position. We need to help the banking sector in the first place, through capitalization and through such economic coercion, I would say, to increase the lending of its real economy. And the third. I think the most important position right now is creating conditions for investors is deregulation, this is tax legislation, this is judicial reform, this is customs legislation. That's practically what we're doing right now. No one is saying that only one pension reform will allow us to resolve pensioners' issues. It's a complex question, I agree with you here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u52	Please, Turmanov. Behind him is Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u53	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! I had a phone call yesterday with the miner of the city of Krasnodon. He read the information somewhere. He's a broken-down pensioner. It raises the question that he is expected to pay 15 per cent of his pension to the Pension Fund in accordance with our new pension reform. And I want to ask you a second question. Today 58 per cent of miners, pensioners work underground. If you're taking a top-level technology chain, it's about 70 percent. Shachers also asked whether they would have 50 per cent of their pensions removed or restricted in connection with the new pension reform. Because if we do, there'll be almost no one working on the mines. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u54	Thank you. I want to talk to the miners again. First. For all pensioners who have been assigned a pension before that date, no deteriorating rules are envisaged at all. One. First. Second. For all pensioners who are employed today, even for those who have received a service permit, no worsening rules are in force. We ask all the miners who have retired, who work, to continue to work, because we understand that this will be a huge problem for the mines. They don't have enough people to take them to the mines from different towns. That's why there's no deterioration, it's just that I don't understand because it's very, well, such serious propaganda, and actually, if you're telling the truth, it's a lie, it's the most true lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u55	Kenzier's handing it over to Mikola Kulchinski. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u56	Mikola Kulczynski, Party "Our Ukraine". Dear Leonid Sergiyovich! Objectively speaking, the Pension Reform Act is well thought out and responds to the threats faced by the pension system in the next 5-10 years. But, however, how you feel about it. John the Rabbit has already covered this issue, but it is not clear. Today, a pension is paid by 10,000. If the salary is higher, still 10,000 just go to the pension fund out of 10,000. How do you feel about counting into the Pension Fund coming from the full amount of wages? That's one question. Next. We have rows of people that no one seems to remember in the country. In the 91st year, as adopted by the Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression and, by the way, it is not fully implemented, it is contrary to the Constitution, the amendments to it candidly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u57	Please respond. Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u58	I, Mr. Kulczynski, want to say that, in fact, we now have a rule in force where 15 minimum wages plan is the amount that counts all of us in social funds. Now we're predicting 17 of these wages, so we're increasing that. Why not more? There was a desire to increase it. Experts say you can get the reverse effect of tinning. And all countries want you to, say, get as close as you can to the extent that you're reducing the maximum pension. And they say it would be methodologically true that it would be the 12 minimum wage plan and 12 minimum pensions. We increased it from 15 to 17. We can't do this anymore because we're going to lose our budget revenue. If we had, well, a little bit, maybe another society that would be willing to pay more, maybe this situation would have changed, but today it's what the same European experts are saying, it's not appropriate. As for other categories, let's say political ones. those people who have been subjected to political repression, if there are any suggestions, I mean, we've practically just started the discussion. We're expecting suggestions from you. We're ready to count, we'll listen. We understand that this is an extremely sensitive reform, and we need to hear everything and take everything into account. We'll balance any questions. Let's make some suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u59	Please, Karmazin, after him is Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, you have shown in your statement that the economy of what is called reform will be copied. It is obvious that money in the state should be sought in another plane. And first of all, we think it should be covering up offshore holes, including the denunciation of the Cyprus deal, other offshores that different governments were allowed to do. I have a question. Why don't we want to go this way, and why don't we want to go today, and I'm going to the economic bloc of government that you've been looking after all this time, and why don't we want to go along the way to cover up the super revenue of those huge companies that have now imported fuel without paying for excise duties and immediately 3 billion? This is worth all your pension reform. One point had to be closed, and then nothing else would be done. Why are we not looking for such steps? And the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u62	Once again, I'm going to say frankly that the government is now doing something that might not be very useful for him. Why? Because, in fact, for this year 2011 and 2012, the effect of the steps we are taking will not be serious enough. The main effect is 8-10 years. But if we don't think about our perspective today, it'll be late tomorrow. And so we do, I want to emphasize again, next year we're going to get 0.2 percent of GDP, and in 10 years, this is going to be 1.8 percent of GDP. We're not going to have a pension system that's loaded today with one of the biggest in the world from 18 to 16.4 we're going down. But it's still one of the world's greatest pressures in terms of GDP. We're going to move on to ten, and then this 1.8 percent relative to 10, that's going to be extremely important. As far as the offshores are concerned, I think the Cabinet of Ministers will be making such an offer in the near future. My assignment is now being prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Cabinet of Ministers will be looking into it as soon as possible, and it will come to you. Because we really have an opportunity, given the opportunity, to get out of a deal that was signed by the Soviet Union in the 1990s. And so this denunciation could be, we had the right to denounce it five years later. The copper is now preparing for my assignment to join the Cabinet of Ministers. As far as legalization is concerned, I can tell you that I would not simplify these processes. Because many countries are fighting. You know, even the same U.S. experts say they have 5 percent of the shadow economy today. And the fact that they're all organized, how long they've been working in the market economy, it's hard to compare with us. So this needs to be done gradually, and first of all, I think it's economic incentives. But on the other hand, make it stronger.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u63	Please, Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u64	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! Please tell us that during 2010, you provided soft bubbles for reforms, you told us about tax reform, today you are talking about pension reform. You're a professional. As you think. And you may well understand that the deterioration of social conditions, the proposal of anti-social laws and the social experiment that you want to put over all women of the country and over all pensioners and persons with disabilities has nothing to do with the word “reform”. The reform is if you would offer us today a model for changing the solidarity system to a savings system. And they would show when people in our country, when they get paid, will have savings in their pension accounts, and they will realize that they will have a time to travel, not a time to survive, as is the case. Why are you replacing the concept of reform and deterioration of social standards?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u65	As far as bubbles are concerned, you know, I have one job to do is not blow these populist soap bubbles that have been inflatable for the last five years. And which, in fact, had nothing to do with the economy and the reforms of recent times. Today we're going to an unpopular decision, I admit it. I understand what I'm doing right. I understand that this effect will be recognized and felt in 7-10 years by all Ukrainians, especially women. So as far as the accumulation system is concerned, don't overstate it. Because many countries are starting to give it up now, and these are very developed and economically literate countries, I would say. That's why. This is Estonia, I can call you, today we have problems in Kazakhstan, today we have problems in South America, there are such countries, there are problems in Poland. We therefore took a special pause to study this experience at the second level of the savings system. And we're going to try to do it soon, in fact, there's some incentive for people, although all the professionals, if you want to talk to them, say, don't wait too fast for the second level, this effect that's going to come back in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, we've even taken some regulations, over an hour of questions to the government. But the fact is that the question that we have heard today is very relevant and important. And let's thank Sergey Leonidovich for answering those questions that he may have been more interested in, not the national deputies, but in the interest of those who will soon be involved in this, there are huge numbers and current pensioners, especially future pensioners. Dear colleagues, we have completed the "hour of questions to the government". A replica? No one else, Paul Gnatovich, but me today. And I remember you better, so shut up. There's a statement from representatives of two factions, from the heads of two factions, that's "BUT" - "Fatherhood," Kirilenko signed, and NUNS Martinenko signed on to give them a break. That's how I understood it, because it says, "To make a statement." Yeah? Yes. And Sergey Sobolev has the word. Please, Sergei, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u67	Today, it is clear that the so-called reform that is directly following tax reform, the content of which was one — the destruction of the middle class in Ukraine. Now the pension reform, which clearly shows that the next, so-called, reform will be carried out at the expense of the least-encompassed pensioners and citizens who are ready to retire, has started. For our faction, it's obvious that cynicism and the coincidence of several factors: the start of pension reform and the second interrogation of Timoshenko in the prosecutor's office, which she now has every day. For which, listen, “for the timely payment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens during the crisis”. This is the answer to this government, and this answer to the Ukrainian people, who are planning this power as an experiment in pension reform. But that's not even the point. Look at the insolence of the Attorney General's office today. Timoshenko’s call at the time when the husband is in the most difficult state of his life. Mr. Korniychuk's arrest at the moment he's having a baby. A call to the Attorney General's Office for our colleagues who were beaten up, and think about the questions: “What have you been doing since 9 a.m. in the session room?” Instead of investigating, who was beating our colleagues, did they recognize those who were beating them, and how will criminal cases continue to be investigated, and will they even be investigated? Dozens of such facts can be cited. But there's nothing strange about it. Because the 80 percent that the Attorney General's Office has further received in funding, according to this budget, is the unique experience that this government and this President are building. Well, I realize there's no improvement in life today, and tomorrow no one's promised any improvement in life. So let's look at what happened yesterday. The adoption of a budget without an article-by-article discussion actually led us to have an unbalanced budget, in which all of the figures of the budget, starting with the level of inflation, ending with the income part of the budget. But of course, by what means it will be done. The income part of the budget will be useful for that, and was assigned to the head of the National Bank, who was not ashamed in his income statement to record the income of 150 million dollars that he received through the scheme of royalty and dividends. And you're looking for 1.7 billion for pensioners? So cynicism is obvious. Our faction under such conditions will not continue to participate in the meetings. And we believe that before investigating the case and punishing the guilty for beating the deputies and stopping the repression.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u68	Finish up. Thank you. The only request here is that the philosophers tell me not to accept, but to participate. Yeah, let's move on, let's move on to the questions, yeah. We're done with the questions. We heard the statement. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council’s regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the President of Ukraine on the urgent intervention of the President in the situation that took place in Parliament on 16 December this year, which resulted in the bodily harm to some of the people's deputies from the opposition and the commission of the Attorney-General to carry out a review of the facts and to violate the relevant criminal cases, and to exercise the right of the envisaged Constitution of Ukraine to determine an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the protection and protection of democratic principles for the activities of the parliamentary minority) (registration No. 7507) of 23 December 2010. Please vote in favour of the MP's request. [[11:19:53]] For 133 It takes 150 votes. Not supported. Sergei Pavlenko to the President of Ukraine on the non-existence of the socio-political newspaper Black Sea News. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine for the inappropriate reaction of Ukraine to the statement made by the Prime Minister of Russia concerning the Ukrainian war veterans of World War II, which was an accident against the entire Ukrainian people, who, following Vladimir Putin's view, did not take an active part in the fight against fascism. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation at the Solotvinian Solar Company of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Ukrainian Allergy and Regional Allergy Hospitals of Zacarpathian Region. Dear colleagues, excuse me, two previous questions and Sergei Pavlenko and Vladimir Yavorowski also to the President. That is why I am supporting Sergey Pavlenko's request to the President of Ukraine to prevent the disappearance of the socio-political newspaper Black Sea News. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:21:33]] For-170. Request supported. I now put to the vote the proposal to send this request to the President. [[11:21:57]] For 249 Decision taken. I don't know what the President has to do with the newspapers. So Vladimir Yavorowski told the President on the statement made by the Prime Minister of Russia, I am voting for support for the request. [[11:22:26]] For -6 Not supported. Let me move on. Vladimir Danilenko's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an additional grant from the State budget of Ukraine to offset the financial security of the local budgets of the Suma region. Vladimir Karpuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-commissioning of the international programme "German Language Diploma" in Ukraine, which is in accordance with the agreement on cultural cooperation between Germany and Ukraine. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, for the support of national artistic groups, concerts and circus organizations during the 2011 development of the Ukrainian State Budget Project. Already in the process of making changes, I'm sure. Caterina Vaszczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the Prevention of Road Traffic Accidents on the Kiev-Odessa Highway by facilitating the regulated traffic in the Hatne Kyevo-Svetoshin district of Kiev. Katerina Vaschuk to the Prime Minister on the urgent need to address urgent issues related to the functioning of the Volin Regional Children's Sports School. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the property rights of families with disabilities and for the fulfilment of the requirements of legislation for free transfer to their property of humanitarian aid. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of labour rights and the reduction of unemployment among middle- and pre-retirement citizens. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure conditions for continued growth and competitiveness of Ukraine's ports, which will contribute to ensuring Ukraine's national interests and economic security, changing tariff policies in the field of specialised port services, making appropriate changes to the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which define port assemblies, with a view to creating a level playing field among the first-party seaports, creating conditions for the integration of additional routes into Ukraine and stimulating business activity in this area. Valery Baranov to the head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on the need to bring energy-efficient enterprises into line with current legislation. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of State for Emergency Situations of Ukraine, Procurator-General of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Administration for the use of immediate response measures aimed at ensuring the implementation of the constitutional rights of the citizens of the city of Borislav Lviv region who suffered as a result of the July disaster in Western Ukraine in 2008, the restoration of financing for the construction of a pedestrian bridge across the Loshanj River in that populated area, and the strengthening of the shore with the aim of preventing further destruction and protection of the rights of the inhabitants of the coastal streets, the verification of the purpose of making use of budget funds by budget managers at the appropriate budgetary targets and the involvement of those responsible. Vladimir Landik to the Director-General of the National Television Company of Ukraine on the legality of the stay and work of the private company Association with limited responsibility for the EU Sales Group. Vladimir Yavorowski to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the immediate response to the search at the Ukrainian literature library in Moscow and for the Russian Federation to explain how Ukrainian literature carries elements of extremism. Eduard Prutnik to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, the Chernigiv District State Administration, the Chernigiv District Council on the need for planning the cost of repairs and reconstruction of the premises under the Centre for Leisure for the Young Village of Verttiyivka with the aim of creating the right conditions for rest and cultural development for young people in the region of Chernigiv. Edouard Prutnik to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the Montenegrin District Administration on the review of the request of residents of the village of Vertivka for the need to build an automatic gas distribution station, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 16 October 2004, for the approval of the census of the 20 locations of the northern zone of the district of Njigiv, in accordance with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 26 November 2003 No. 1826 on the approval of the census of the provincial gas pipelines for the gasification of the rural population. [[indigestion]] Eugene Kzarkov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of police officers during acts of vandalism near the Eternal Fire in the Park of Slava city-hero Kyiv. Olega Láska to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the extension of the list of medical supplies and medical supplies that can be implemented through field - obstetrics, district hospitals, and medical clinics. Alexander Schepelev to the minister of Ukraine’s extraordinary situations regarding the use of flood management measures in the Zakarpatsk region. Sergey Chrapova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the possibility of amending the Order of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of October 2, 1998, No. 53/5 on the approval of the instructions on the appointment and conduct of forensic and expert studies and scientific and methodological recommendations on the preparation and appointment of forensic expertise and expert studies. Sergey Shrappova to the head of the Accountancy Chamber, Attorney General, on the situation on the flag of the Ukrainian atomic industry of the state-owned enterprise East Mining and Enriching (the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region). Lilia Grigorovich and Mikli Kulczynski to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of searches by the Russian law enforcement authorities at the Library of Ukrainian Literature in Moscow. Gregory Mankovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine for conducting a comprehensive verification of the legality of the adoption of orders and the preparation of relevant documentation by the Montenegrin Regional Administration of the Chernigiv Region for the transfer to the property of the Ulyssian Rural Council. Paul Žebrovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the legal evaluation of the actions of the former village head of the Plesetsk Rural Council and the necessary measures to restore the work of the Plesetsk Rural Council of the district of Kijiv. Paul Silent to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of a criminal attack against the progéctor of the Donetsk National University of Tetjana Lev and the blackmail of the lawfully elected Rector of the Donetsk National University of Yuri Lysenka. Sergei Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-existence of the socio-political newspaper Black Sea News. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure of the Government of Ukraine to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the provisions of articles 14, 24, 64, paragraphs 7-13 of Chapter VII of the Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2010". [[Kirilchuk, Blackwolf, and others. Total 9 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the attack by Ukrainian national MPs on opposition representatives in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Pussy, Culchinsky, and others. Total 7 deputies]] Valery Bondick to the prosecutor of the Kirovograd district on the legality of the charges and the grounds for the criminal offence. Valery Bondick to the head of the Head of Justice in the Mikolai district regarding the improper execution of a court decision. Alexander Crnvolenko to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration on the need for funding in 2011 from Kiev’s budget for the construction of the second thread of the main sewage collector in Kiev for 360 million dollars. Alexander Crnowolka to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration on the need for funding in 2011 from the Kiev City Budget for the construction of the second line of the Kurenov-Red Army subway line in Kiev towards the Teremka Housing Mass in the area of 860 million gravel and the construction of the Sub-Vygur Line in Kiev towards the Trieste Housing Massion in the range of 150 million gravel. Alexander Schepelev to the Kharkiv City Head on the urgent use of measures to pay off the arrears of employees of the Kharkiv Municipal Enterprise Miskelektrotrans. Vadim Kolesnicka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide an answer to the request for implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on ensuring compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the field of culture and sport. [[concerning the non-destruction of Sevastopol Stadium]] Here are all the parliamentary questions for today. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the following issues of the agenda, and you have a list of them. But before that, I would like, honourable colleagues, to ask you to make a reconciliation in accordance with article 131 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure right now, to agree on the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Natural Gas and Electricity Accounting, Bill No. 7115. It's yours. I think there's no need to read, there's two articles. Legal authorities, the legal authorities, when they began working on the final edition, saw certain legal irregularities. The Main Committee, and in this case the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, is speaking. He agrees with this and asks us to remove any disagreements in the adopted law under number 7115. Please vote. [[11:34:49]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, by agreeing on the matter, we have decided. And we still have one question to solve, and I would like to make an understanding of that. The financial year is ending, and we very much need to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 on additional sources of funding for State Budget subsidies to local budgets. [[Registration number 7454]] Please vote on including it in the agenda and consider it. Given that this is the last session day, more faithful in 2010, and we are making changes to the 2010 budget. Please vote. [[11:36:02]] For 254 Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have 254 votes. We'll listen to Baran's Valery Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been considered, but we have not been able to implement it because our government has not at that time found a mechanism to perform a very important task of paying compensation in different tariffs for local self-government authorities exercising delegated powers. So if we now adopt this law, and the mechanism has been found, then you and I will be very helpful to local self-government, to our communities to go clean without being indebted next year. So this is a very big and important thing. I ask you all to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u70	Yes, Your Honor, I'm calling your attention again. Please respond with an understanding. The bottom line is this. Today is our last plenary day in 2010. You and I are looking at the changes to the State Budget Act 2010. This law will end in a week or so. I mean, if we don't consider this proposal with you right now, it's essential to finance the local government, which is those who live in places, including us with you. Therefore, with your permission, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on additional sources of State budget subsidies to local budgets]] Please vote. [[11:38:33]] For 265 Decision taken. Given what I've already said, dear fellows, we have no other way than to accept it as a law as a whole, otherwise we had nothing to consider. Let us therefore close our eyes and vote on the adoption of the Law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2010 as a whole. [[on additional sources of State budget subsidies to local budgets]] What? Please vote. We vote like the law. [[11:39:25]] For 263 Thank you, dear fellows, under such conditions we have been placed. For the reasons of the vote, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, when we showed disrespect for the Rules, we showed yesterday that we had adopted a budget of over 2,000 amendments, a budget for the whole country in general, without discussion, a violation of the rights of members of the people to stand up for their position. That's how we broke the Constitution. Not "we," but "you," "aggressive majority," let me call you that, "aggressive majority." Because those events that were, they confirmed it. And now the same thing is happening again, the practice of enacting laws in the first and second readings at the same time. Such practices do absolutely nothing good. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you very much to comply with the Rules and I am addressing the Regulatory Committee. Obviously the first committee to be shortened is a regulatory committee, because it absolutely does not control compliance with the Act on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u72	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm very ashamed, I have both cheeks reddish, you're telling the absolute truth, and I'm in solidarity with you. But at the same time, I'm going to explain one more time: we're in the pitiful state, we're in such a situation that, unfortunately, we can't raise the issue. They could have done it if it had been filed earlier. If we hadn't adopted this bill right now, we would have left the local authorities with no donations, no subsidies, no heat, no electricity in the homes of our electorate with you. So I think they'll forgive us for that. They forgive us and thank us for this because our standards are not as important as the light and the heat in the apartments. This is one moment. And second moment, dear colleagues! So that we don't have it anymore, because we won't even make it, there won't be time to make any specifics, and here we are, lawyers are telling me that we need to clarify something. So let me read for the transcript that I will complete paragraph 6 of section I of the bill by paragraph three of the following content: “Give the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the right to redistribute the total amount of the subsidy in question between local budgets, resulting from the decisions taken to carry out such calculations.” And in Appendix 2 to the bill in the title of the subsidy, the words “water and water services” should be deleted. And it is appropriate to entrust all of this to the President in preparing for signature with the last edition of the State Budget Act 2010 in connection with the laws adopted on 21 and 23 December amending the 2010 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. Bills by number 7346, 7388 and 7382. I mean, to bring everything there into line. I would like to re-vote such additions to the law that we have passed with you. Please, this is Bill 7454.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u73	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u74	We vote by hand, not by word. [[11:43:31]] For 259. Yeah, thanks, there's 259. Where's Baranov? Yes, please, Valery Alexiyovich, you have one more request. Sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, there is another request: the budget is accepted. But his preparations sometimes make mistakes, and I ask you to correct one mistake. Since we have the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, and we had previously been in the structure of the ones that the President then amended by his decree, there was a State Investment Agency and the administration of Ukraine's national projects. Now that the new structure is gone, there is no such chief investment agency. So, technically, without any change in financial estimates, it is proposed that there be one chief executive, as this reform suggests, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. And I'm forced to read what the correction should be and ask you to listen to it. In Appendix 3. Taking into account the position of Presidential Decree No. 1085 of 9 December on optimizing the system of central executive bodies, according to which the activities of the State Investment Agency and the administration of Ukraine's national projects are coordinated through the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, it is necessary to amend Appendix 3 to the State Budget Act for the following year. First, in the heading “Code, programs, classification of expenditure and lending of the State budget”, codes 6300000, 6301010, 6301030, 6301040, 6301100, 6301110, 6301120, 6301130, 1205040, 12005100, 1205110, 1205120, 1205130. Two. The 6301000 line is deleted entirely. And the third. In line with code 1200000, the figures 343 million 877, two hundred and ninety - five hundred, one hundred and fifty - fifty - ninety - eight and seven, eleven zero sixty - nine and seven, fifty - three - three - three - sixty - seven and eighty - forty - six nine hundred and two hundred and ninety - nine and two are replaced by the numbers one billion 502 million 771.5, three thirty - nine hundred and forty - four and seven, one hundred and seventy - four fifty - six, fifteen - twenty - two and eight, one billion - sixty - three - six - six and eighty - eighty - five hundred and eighty - four and seven. These changes do not affect the overall indicators and budget balance. Only the redistribution of expenses is carried out. What I told you at the beginning of this. Please support this amendment. And also, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u76	Valery Alexiyovich, we're only going to vote on what we're talking about: making changes to the supervisors who don't have a national agency, and so on. All the other proposals that will now be made will not be considered with you. So please, national deputies, do not carry your proposals. I put to the vote the reconciliation that the head of the Committee on Budgets is the proposals and the Committee on Budgets and the Cabinet of Ministers and we change the board. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u77	And Yuri Anatolyovich had suggested it before. Let's support it, Yuri Anatolyovich, now. [[11:47:40]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we are hearing a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances and reasons for the current state of affairs in the credit system. Reported to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Prasolov Igor Mikolaiovich. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the results of the semi-annual work of the Interim Investigation Commission, which, at the request of Parliament, examined the state of the system of credit cooperation in Ukraine. The interim commission of inquiry, which I am representing today, was established at the initiative of the Ukrainian people's deputies, members of the Special Committee on Finance and Banking, headed by the Chairman of the Committee, Pecklusenko Aleksandra Nikolajevic. The Commission was established by the Supreme Council Regulation on 01 July this year to examine what is happening in the system of credit cooperation, to clarify the circumstances and causes of negative developments in this area, including the numerous facts of violations of the rights of citizens and to try to identify the main ways out of this situation. The commission was composed of Vasuk Ekaterina Timofievna, Klimenko Aleksandr Nikolajevic, Matveev Vladimir Josephovic, Prassolov Igor Nikolaevich and Yavorivsky Vladimir Aleksandrovic. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues, members of our commission, for their professional and good work. The sources to your attention of the report were, first of all, sufficient information from the public authorities: Gosfinaus, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Prosecutor-General and the District Prosecutors, the Tax Administration and the State Executive Service. Secondly, the interim commission of inquiry has carefully examined citizens' appeals, both private and collective, and the information provided by our parliamentary information office. Thirdly, for an objective assessment of the situation, the Commission has, in particular, addressed situations of some negative resonances in individual credit unions. By inviting representatives of such alliances, but listening to all parties: both representatives of the Unions and of the Gosfinese and affected citizens. Finally, we have tried to engage in a rather productive dialogue with credit union associations, whose constructive proposals have also been reflected in the materials provided to you. The overall picture of the system of credit cooperation, its problems, the causes of these problems, of the steps that have been taken to address them is presented in our report, which you have all received. First, the report analyses the state of the credit cooperative system, both in the world and in our country. For example, in the world, credit unions exist in 97 countries, both developed and developing, the total number of unions reaches 49,000 and the total number of members is about 184 million. B Europe, for example, has credit unions in Britain, Ireland, Poland, Romania, Hungary, the Baltic countries. In other European countries, there are so-called cooperative banks, which are a variety of credit cooperatives. In Ukraine, modern credit unions began to form as early as 1992. Domestic credit unions have the status of non-profit organizations, they are cooperative credit institutions. They focus mainly on providing financial services to low-income groups, households, small businesses, farmers. Some credit unions work, not on a territorial basis, but on the basis of labour groups, trade unions, social and religious organizations. The traditional niche of credit unions is microcredit. The vast majority of borrowers of credit unions are not a priority client base for commercial banks in Ukraine. I would like to point out that even in the context of the recent financial crisis, a large part of the credit unions continued to lend to the population, in fact the only source of financial support to thousands of our fellow citizens at such a difficult time. This is despite the fact that credit unions have been completely deprived of any State support in contrast to commercial banks. The number of official statistics is as follows. By the middle of this year, there were 700 registered credit unions in Ukraine, which is 14 per cent less than 2009. Unions bring together one and a half million citizens, 29 per cent less than last year. The number of Union members per year has increased by over 600,000. Nevertheless, even as the main performance indicators fell, most unions were able to maintain financial stability and pursue an active market policy. In the assets of all credit unions, almost 3 billion grevens, the fall of about one and a half billion bracelets per year. In the first half of the year, $2.74 billion was credited. In total, there were 1 billion 660 million bracelets in the deposit accounts of members of credit unions. Among the members of the credit unions, the current loan had almost 337,000 persons and legal entities, while deposits for 1-2010 had only 70,6,000 persons. At the same time, it should be emphasized separately that in credit unions, more than 50 per cent of investors are pensioners with contributions of between 5,000 and 15,000 bracelets. The average amount of credit per borrower is over 8,000 bracelets and the average deposit is 23.5,000 bracelets. With regard to the market for credit unions as a whole, some part of the credit unions, about 10 per cent of the total quantity, are now having significant financial and deposit liabilities problems, half of which are related to abuse, including criminal offences. In the other half of the problem is due to poor management or inadequate management, breach of cooperative principles, excessive risk credit policy, severe deterioration of the ability to pay by borrowers, depreciation of collateral, which has resulted in a sharp decline in the capacity of such credit unions. The problem is that large amounts of credit unions are difficult to deal with and account for up to 40 per cent of all market assets and all investors, respectively. Thus, it can be argued that the figures often reported in the media regarding the number of citizens affected by credit unions at the level of almost 2 million are clearly exaggerated and unwarranted. In general, it is noted that the State has not given due attention to the development of this type of credit institution. There has been no specific legislation for 10 years of credit unions. At present, a special law on credit unions in this area is already requiring substantial work to address unjustified obstacles and risks to the activities of credit unions. The existing organizational status, the supervisory tool and the current system of operations of the Secretary-General do not allow this regulator to set up an appropriate one. supervision and effective impact on credit unions in the event of a risk of default or loss of liquidity. All the above-mentioned reasons, as well as those that I will not be able to tell you about in their long list, all illustrate the clearly insufficient response of the State to the problems that have existed in the national credit cooperation system since its inception. This has occurred despite the obvious potential positive role of credit cooperation in addressing the social problems of the poor, support for a private enterprise initiative, development of territorial communities, particularly in rural areas. As a result of such a public policy for the first ten years of the existence of credit unions in the context of a regulatory vacuum and significant uncontrolled activity, there was a situation where both markets were created and developed independently of two groups of entities. The first group is classic, credit unions that have been carried out on the basis of stability, transparency, social responsibility and compliance in the management of generally recognized international cooperative principles. The second, so-called pseudocredit alliances, which were essentially questionable business projects that carried out risky financial policies and carried out questionable financial schemes. The global financial crisis was not the root cause of today's problems in the credit union market; it was only a catalyst and demonstrated these problems. In particular, it was clear that it was the healthy credit unions of the first group, with the minimal losses of those who had survived the active phase of the crisis and who had gradually begun to recover their market positions, that such alliances required immediate support through the necessary legislative reform and the development of appropriate infrastructure. The rest of the credit unions, in our view, are subject to civilized and effective withdrawal from the market, taking into account the interests of their members, especially the investors. I will focus on some of the main issues in the area of government regulation of credit unions. The first is the problem of supporting an adequate level of liquidity at the three system levels. At the credit union level, the limitation of the list of liquid assets, at the credit cooperative system level, does not provide for an adequate mechanism to support the liquidity of credit unions. At the financial system level, credit unions must have access, like banks, to refinancing, which has never been implemented in practice, even in the context of a recent financial crisis. The second is the problem of good cooperative management. It is a formal meeting of members of credit unions, a lack of professionalism and a lack of real motivation among members of electoral bodies, alliances, the lack of an effective mechanism, internal control over the activities employed by the Union of Managers, the inadequacy and insufficient disclosure of key management information by credit unions. The next problem is sufficient capitalization, capacity to pay at three systemic levels. At the level of credit unions. Lack of sufficient prudential standards for credit unions. At the level of professional credit unions, monitoring is only partially carried out. At the level of authorized public authorities, the State regulator is unable to ensure full prudential supervision and regulation due to insufficient tools due to underfunding. The latter is developing in a number of problems with the adequacy of regulatory procedures. It should be noted that these problems are not always due to inconsistent or unprofessional actions by regulators. To a large extent, there is a legitimate result of the chronic uncertainty of a number of legislative and institutional problems of the controller, its functionality and the proper level of political, departmental and financial independence. The next problem is the protection of the rights of members of credit unions, first and foremost, in the lack of real safeguards for the protection of the rights of members of credit unions. There are no effective pre-trial dispute settlement mechanisms. Poor public awareness of the essence and principles of the cooperative nature of the activities of credit unions. In view of the above, such urgent steps are being proposed at the current stage of its development in order to address the issue of the activities of the Ukrainian credit unions. First. In order to address the threat to the preservation of the contributions of members of credit unions, a system of deposit guarantee should be established with the participation and control of the State, as is the case with bank investors. In any case, we estimate that at the time the fund was established as a State specialized non-profit institution, its statutory capital should be created at least 50 million bracelets. In the near future, consider the three bills contained in the decree in the draft regulation on credit unions. Third. Provide credit unions with access to refinancing by the National Bank of Ukraine as a creditor of the last instance to support short-term liquidity to restore current capacity to pay. Fourth. Ensuring effective protection of the rights of members of credit unions. Fifth. Streamlining the work of a specialized regulator of credit unions, the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, which has limited functional capacity and low level of institutional financial independence, thus impeding effective regulation and supervision of markets in non-bank financial services and in particular in a difficult financial situation. Sixth. Measures should be taken immediately to ensure the compulsory participation of all credit cooperative market participants, self-regulated organizations. Seven. Strengthen the work of law enforcement agencies to effectively combat fraud in the actions of officials of individual credit unions and to bring such persons to the statutory responsibility. Eighth. Ensure a fundamental review of the framework for the functioning of the State executive service with a view to enhancing its efficiency and responsibilities. Ninth. In order to remove the social tension of tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens, mostly pensioners and other low-income groups, it is appropriate to introduce a compensation mechanism on the part of the State for the contributions of citizens lost in the financial crisis of credit unions. However, compensation must be made under strict State control.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u79	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u80	Funding for monetary compensation should be made available to depositors of insolvent credit unions, provided that such compensation is limited to further reimbursement from credit portfolios and other types of assets available in such credit unions, as well as recovery from the perpetrators. Credit unions of this category are themselves subject to market withdrawal and liquidation. By concluding my statement, let me thank all those involved in the formulation of the proposals of our Commission and express our confidence that these proposals will indeed enable the work to be streamlined and bring to a new and qualitative level the activities of the credit cooperation system in Ukraine. Please support the draft order submitted by the Interim Investigation Commission and approve the report on the work of our investigative commission. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we would have done the right thing for you. Have a seat, please. That's: I'm taking a break right now, I'm making this proposal, we're going to work without interruption for up to 12 hours, 30 minutes, and then we're going to finish our session, taking into account what's ahead of us. And to be sure, before the New Year, we don't have to excite society. I put this motion to the vote to work continuously for up to 12 hours for 30 minutes and then to conclude the morning session. Please support the offer. [[12:04:41]] For 248 Offer supported. It will be easy to speak in the discussion and express what he thinks others too. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the adoption of the project, with regard to the draft regulation we are now exchanging. Project Order 7506, I see there's a need to exchange ideas. Please, Argevite Stanislaw, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to thank the colleagues who worked on this committee, because all the accents are properly placed, properly done, well-examined reasons, consequences, and, above all, a true assessment of the current state of credit cooperation. I share the idea that, so far, lost, really, state control over, we've forgotten about the credit cooperation. The reason for the abuse is that these institutions do not pay taxes according to legislation, and so many people who dream of not paying taxes use these tools. And so the proposal to actually inventory credit unions and the subject of whether they fit the legislation is right, and I think it's going to be kind of a clean-up of credit cooperation. The philosophy of a credit union is to help one another without paying taxes. And that's a big advantage for such an institution. I think there's a good suggestion that we should create a fund, a compensation fund or a guarantee fund. Because Ukrainians who are in a banking institution or in Ukraine, who are investors in a credit union, are the same citizens, and they must have equal rights to defend themselves. The only thing that needs to be determined is whether we need to duplicate the creation of another Population Deposit Guarantee Fund or maybe give the existing State Fund additional functions to do the same. I think it's true, it was said that during the crisis we forgot about the credit-card cooperative. If other credit institutions were in some way protecting, minimizing the financial crisis, we forgot about the credit unions. The discussion is that if they could get one and a half billion dollars in re-financing to avoid those problems, the discussion remained that way. So I support the position and the draft decision of our commission. And I would like to remind you that legislation needs to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u83	Yes, please, Baby. Then there's Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u84	2010 was a turning point in the history of an independent Ukraine. The power of power has changed dramatically in the country. Sadly, this power is far from the people, away from civilization, from the realization of their historic mission. This authority aims to destroy the sprouts of democratic freedoms and rights, the right to speak, the right to think, the right to protest. But as a great nation, we will not give up. We will endure and prove that the spirit of freedom is in our blood. The power of Ukraine is that we are stronger, kinder, and wiser than those who are now in powerful chairs. There's only a moment of power behind them. And beyond the Ukrainian people is the future. However, not only should we declare that we are the creators of our future but we should be determined to do so daily. We're Europeans. After us, the Cossack Republic and the world's first Constitution. And shame on someone who thinks they owe something to the Ukrainians. We all appreciate will and independence. All of us show respect for our parents, help the disadvantaged, and care for our children. We respect friendship and are far from jealous. We believe in God and remember our glorious heroes, so we are Ukrainians. That's why we're gonna win. Give God to all of us, our parents, and our children both wealth and health. Good luck in New Year's. Your Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u85	Where are the credit unions? Yes, please, Oleg Zarubinski and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u86	Now, dear fellows, we have witnessed two standards. A colleague of Prasolonov Igor Mikolaiovich spoke and knew what he was talking about. By the way, I can say without undue complicity that we haven't had that kind of report of a temporary commission of high quality in a long time. Comprehensive analysis, professional analysis, multifaceted analysis. I think if we move on to this standard of work, then the need for, and the effect on the work of temporary commissions, both special and investigators, will really be serious. I'd like to thank you very much, Mr. Prasololov. And the second standard. We're looking at the question of credit unions and the talk again, this again, sorry, word-feeling, nothing. Absolutely nothing. Adam Ivanovich, we need to put an end to speeches that do not refer to the subject, which is a requirement of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u87	And now you're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u88	How much of this fornication and chatter can we listen to? And on the subject, I want to say the following. The question of credit unions, it's a question of the state, respected colleagues. I say banal things, but there is a social agreement. People pay taxes, people take certain restrictions on their activities, and the state provides them with the necessary level of security. What happened? The state did not provide a level of security for the existence of people in these credit unions. I think the key burden of guilt here falls on the state. By the way, what state, when these problems arose from the second performance. And one more moment, I think, is very important. That's what was in the analysis is the responsibility of the directors of credit unions for what they did. Because there were objective reasons for the financial crisis. We don't know we're full of crooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u89	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u90	Shahrai among the credit unions, what do we not know? We know. They didn't get paid? They got it. Didn't they have income at a time of crisis? Little one. But those who gave them the money had nothing to do with it. So this component, I think, needs to be strengthened and eventually it has to be answered and those who, aside from the financial crisis, have just overcrowded people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u91	Thank you. Question completed. I thank my colleagues and the commission, and those who participated in the discussion, who focused attention on the relevance of this issue. So let's take a friendly vote in favour of Decree 7506. But from here, we're going to take 3 points where we're going to give the Supreme Council an immediate review of some of the bills. I'm paying attention to the committees needed to make sure that the Deposit Guarantee Fund, to make changes to some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the business of the credit cooperation system, and to the credit unions about the creation of the self-regulation of the credit unions to which this applies, let's urgently prepare these issues. [[Registration number 3265]] [[Registration number 2256]] [[Registration number 6010]] And from the very determination, we're going to take a list of these bills. Therefore, I would like to vote on the totality of the decision number 7506 on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances and reasons for the current state of affairs in the credit cooperation system with the exception of 3 points and to renumber accordingly. Please vote. [[12:13:22]] For 239. Thank you. It's been decided. A bill amending the Ukrainian Animal World Act is under consideration. Is it necessary to discuss the bill? [[on the conservation of wild birds]] [[Registration number 7335]] Nobody insists? We can vote for the adoption of the law in the first reading. I then put to the vote the proposal for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of Bill 7335. Draft Act amending the Act on Animal Health in Ukraine. [[on the conservation of wild birds]] Please vote. [[12:14:18]] For 228 Thank you. Adopted in the first reading. I'd like Danilenko, Vladimir Andriyovich, what's the committee's opinion? In general, could we accept as law? Oh, no? No, it's not. The committee says we have to work. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration in part of the issuance of the person, extradition. [[Registration number 7306]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. Vote. [[12:15:03]] For 216 Offer supported. Please, Valery Volodymyrovna Lutkovska, Deputy Minister of Justice. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In its time, the Supreme Council has amended the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, taking into account our proposals regarding the need to regulate issues of extradition, extradition, and extradition. At the same time, the Supreme Council commissioned the Government of Ukraine to prepare changes to those laws that would require changes in relation to the procedure that is now regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code. Actually, that's the result of this work. We propose amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code, which are linked to the validity of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. We suggest making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In addition, matters relating to the prior imprisonment of a person on extradition arrest must be settled. In this regard, the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison is amended accordingly. To ensure that the rights of these persons are properly guaranteed. In view of the fact that these laws are based on the fact that this bill is designed to make the necessary changes in relation to already regulated relationships, please support the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u93	Thank you, sit down, please. Vladimir Olijnik from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement is prepared for consideration in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in part of the issuance of a person. [[Extraditions]] The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Laws of Ukraine "On Pre-Prisonment", "On Ratification of the European Convention", "On Extradition of Offenders" of 13 December 1957, the Additional Protocol of 1975, and the Second Additional Protocol of 1978 to the Refugee Convention. In order to effectively implement the provisions of the new chapter of the Ninth Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, including the regulation of the procedure for keeping persons in custody who are subject to extradition and transit, as well as ensuring the proper fulfilment of the requirements of Ukraine's international treaties. [[Extradition]] Also in accordance with the new Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. After analysing the bill, the committee notes that the proposed changes are aimed at bringing the above-mentioned legislative provisions into line with European standards and the requirements of Ukraine's valid international treaties on the extradition of offenders, and considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft law on the basis. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u95	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Have a seat. I think the reporters convinced us that this bill should be based on it. No objections? I am voting on the proposal for support in the first reading of Bill 7306, the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in part of the issuance of the person. [[Extraditions]] Please vote. [[12:18:50]] For 243 Thank you. The law was adopted in the first reading, and we prepare it. We should now consider Bill No. 7067, a bill amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, but there is a mutual request for both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Profiles to postpone the consideration of this bill. [[on the acquisition of higher education for children from multi-child families]] Please support this proposal to move the bill to number 7067. Please vote. [[12:19:44]] For 241 Thank you. We've moved on. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on the Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation Foundation]] [[Registration number 7286]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[12:20:17]] For 204 Supported. Please, Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Lusznikov Igor Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u96	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft law excludes part four of article 3 and article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution as part of the removal of the Ukrainian National Fund for Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation. The Ukrainian National Fund for Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation at the Cabinet of Ministers was set up to make compensation payments to citizens who were particularly affected by nationalist persecution during World War II, as well as to carry out humanitarian measures in the interests of this category of persons. Reimbursement programs for victims of slavery forced labor. Socialism was completed on December 31, 2006. Furthermore, in June 2008, the German Federal Fund officially completed funding for the Ukrainian National Fund for Understanding and Reconciliation. This makes it imperative to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, which defines the mandate of the fund that has completed its activities. The adoption of the proposed bill will enable the government to carry out a procedure to eliminate the Ukrainian National Fund for Understanding and Reconciliation. The implementation of the legislative act does not require expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko is from the committee, the first deputy head.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm very short. The committee reviewed this bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And given that the mutual understanding and reconciliation fund has fulfilled its function, and given that we are now working under administrative reform, which also requires the reduction of certain structural units, the committee has decided to support the prescribed draft law. What's more, I think it could be accepted in general, but with one detail, we need to identify the successor, and this observation is made by our scientific expertise. That is, given this warning of scientific expertise, it could be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u99	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich, then let's stay at the microphone for now. You don't have to?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u100	It doesn't, does it? Okay, so let's vote for the first reading of Bill 7286 on amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on the Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation Fund]] Please vote. [[12:23:35]] For 233 Copy that. And, dear colleagues, you understand that we can accept it and we should accept it as a law. If we now find an answer to the question of the successor of this fund, what are the proposals? What does the Ministry say? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u101	We can offer the service that will be created, the Service for Disability and Veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u102	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. What kind of service?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u103	The Department of Disability and Veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u104	Yeah, what about the committee? Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u105	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, the reverend Igor Mikolaiovich, I think the successor should be the Ministry of Labour, of Social Policy, because the service is. The Disability and Veterans Service, which is built on debris, so to speak, the Social Protection Fund and the Veterans Rights Committee, is not exactly the kind of body that could be the successor. I think it should be the Ministry of Labour, of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u106	I think it's closer to the truth, Peter Stepanovich. Moreover, according to the President's decree, the service to be created will coordinate its activities through the Ministry of Social Policy. And now, as far as I know, no service as a central executive authority has the right to issue their own paperwork, it can only be done by the Ministry, right, so logically. What does the Ministry of Justice think? Ino, please, we have the first Deputy Minister of Justice here right now. We are now discussing the question that we are eliminating the fund that has carried out its mission, understanding and reconciliation, and we are looking for the right of the successor. And there's two options for it to be the State Department of Veterans and Disabled Persons or whatever it's called or wider, so it's the Ministry of Social Policy. What's your opinion, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the President's decree and with those reforms, it is envisaged that the Ministry will be responsible for the formation of legal policy. Neither the services nor the agencies will shape politics in one area or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u108	Thank you. That's a confirmation of what I said before. So let's also take into account the fact that the successor of the Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation Fund will be the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with this amendment, we will adopt, as a whole, Act No. 7286 amending the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution in respect of the Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation Fund. Please vote. [[12:26:51]] For 229 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, our next law is 6359. But there is an offer, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee are proposing to postpone its consideration. Please vote on the transposition of Bill 6359. Vote. [[12:27:29]] For 231 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have the most disciplined offer from the opposition to Arjevetina's colleague to give one minute, and then we will be determined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry, I'm only always on my own. But now Zakarpatsk is celebrating 50 years. This is one of the oldest lands in Kiev. You know that the Ukrainians on that side of Carpathians have waited a thousand years to unite with the Ukrainians in Carpathians. And when this happened in 1944, the better sons of the Zacarpathian people said they came here to Kiev, and today I would like to remind them of the Carpathians who glorified Ukraine. The first were soccer players Coman, Sabo, Bear, Rice, and much more. More than a hundred today are academics, professors working for the benefit of our Ukraine. The world-renowned Hero of Ukraine, Eugene Stankevich. I don't know if every Ukrainian will worship this man. There were times when four ministers from our land were working in the government — Durdinac, Klimpus, Pinzenik, Hertz, and many others. So let me welcome them, because 50 years is a big date. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-24-m0.u110	Thank you. So, dear fellows, we are coming with you to a conclusion according to how we voted. So, your honors, let me join you in what each of you would like to say on behalf of the factions, and Vladimir Mikhailovich asked me to hand it over, he's now at a meeting with the President of the State. I, on behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council, personally, from each of the leaders present in the faction hall, would like to extend a warm welcome to each of you and our fellow citizens at the end of 2010, which has brought some hope and prospects for Ukraine, and to work fruitfully with you in 2011 so that nothing will interfere and prepare us for the upcoming elections of 2012. May he be happy for all our fellow citizens. [[Applause]] We're working in the districts next week. Our next meeting, the next plenary meeting, the last meeting of this session, will be held on Tuesday, January 11, 2011. [[last week, meant sessional]] Good luck, dear fellows!
