ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. And invite the deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:12]] Cards were registered in the 282 national deputies in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we have included in the morning session a draft law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. [[on the approval of the text of the oaths of the Prosecutor's Office]] There is a proposal to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote for this proposal. [[16:02:56]] For 204 Decision taken. Please, Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich. And from the committee is Oljinik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! According to part two of article 46 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act, persons appointed for the first time as assistant prosecutors, prosecutors, administrations, departments, prosecutors and prosecutors are sworn in by the prosecutor. The text of that oath under the law must be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Despite the above requirements, the text of the oath of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had not yet been approved, which accordingly made it impossible for the prosecutors to accept it. The oath institution, which is provided for by law, determines the order of service for virtually all categories of civil servants. The Ukrainian President, the Ukrainian National Deputies, internal affairs officials, the Ukrainian Security Service, judges, and civil servants make an oath of loyalty to the people of Ukraine. The breach of an oath, in most cases, is recognized as a basis for bringing a person to account, including discharge. The absence of an oath from a prosecutor's office violates the requirements of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, reducing the responsibility of prosecutors, which has a negative impact on the activities of the body. The project proposes to remedy the existing situation. The adoption of the bill will not only help to remove the gaps in the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, but also contribute positively to society as a whole. Please support the bill and vote for it in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u3	Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u4	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of legal security and law enforcement on 22 December 2010, was reviewed by the National Deputies of Ukraine Vernidubov, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending Ukraine's Pro Prosecutor's Office Act on the approval of the text of an oath by prosecutors. The bill proposes to correct the existing situation, to amend article 46 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act and to include in it the text of an oath by the prosecutor's office, and to supplement it with article 46. See para. 2, which sets out the grounds for the dismissal of prosecutors. During the discussion of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee unanimously noted that the text of the oath did not contain the word “swear” which is in the texts of the other persons' oaths. The committee therefore proposes that the text of the oath be supplemented by the word “swear”. In addition, the Committee believes that the words “all employees of the Ukrainian prosecutors’ offices” should be considered “all prosecutors and investigators of Ukraine”. Thus, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the bill, taking into account the proposals made on the basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, may we support the committee's decision? Let's make a decision. Is there no objection? Therefore, taking into account the committee's proposal, I put to the vote, once again, the proposals of the adoption committee as a basis and the whole draft law amending the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. [[on the approval of the text of the oath by the Prosecutor's Office]] [[Registration number 7426-1]] Please vote. [[16:07:36]] For 254 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a second-reading draft. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Amnesty Act is being introduced. [[new editor]] Another reading. Registration number 4179. Reporter: Mališev Volodymyr Stepanovic. There's no reporter. I'm voting on a motion to postpone the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Amnesty Act in Ukraine. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4179]] Please vote. [[16:08:35]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency and Social Protection, which concludes the committee on the need to adopt a second-reading bill and generally as a law. [[new editor]] I'm sorry. Lilia Grigorovich will base proposals and amendments to the bill. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The problem of AIDS is urgent, and it is becoming a national problem. And proof of that and the improvement of the legislative base, and even such a brilliant addition to the budget at the time of adoption today, the budget is final for 2011. The bill was voted on October 21st. It received 54 amendments from Ukrainian national deputies: Haydaeva, Carmazin, Bahte, Karpuk, and so on. It's 36. It's taken care of by a factor of 10. 8 amendments rejected. If there is a need, we can go through the deviations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u7	Okay. Yuri Carmazin, 1st Amendment. 2nd? Yes, Levun, 11th? Unguranian, 12th? Maroustenka, 21st? Dear colleagues! Unguranian, 52nd? Carmazine, 54th and 53rd? Yuri Anatolyevich, 53rd amendment of yours. Please, the position of the committee, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u8	Regarding the 53rd amendment of Deputy Carmazin. It is technical in nature and refers to a change in the form of the finalization of the bill. And the same 54th amendment, not included in the rejection of amendment number one. And now I'd like to add another one. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Legal Department concluded and called only yesterday for a draft for second reading. With your permission, I'd like to make the remarks that it made so that we can take them into account in the second reading procedure. That is, it is said that, in view of the fact that the issue of State policy in the field of HIV - related diseases is directly linked to the observance of human constitutional rights, the laws must properly determine the organs responsible for it. [[Note No. 1]] I would like to point out that there is a basic Law on the Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases, which clearly defines the authorization of all responsible authorities in all cases of intense diseases, including HIV/AIDS. This is about the first observation of the legal system. The second observation is completely technical, and we are practically correcting it. And finally, the third observation of the legal administration concerning the rights of citizens with HIV/AIDS regarding free passage in public transport, as well as the provision of isolated rooms. I want to point out that this disease isn't contagious, it doesn't need isolated rooms, and there's little bits here, maybe the legal department hasn't figured it out. With regard to public transportation, this is the decision of the local council. The local council should vote on this list. So we discriminate against these people because we violate the right to anonymity in treatment. Thus, since all the amendments are taken into account, since the observation of the legal administration that we have been published, we are responding today, and they are also included in the bill, there is a proposal to support the bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u9	Let's listen to the 54th Amendment of Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, and we'll make a decision. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u10	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I confirm Lilia Grigorovich's statement that the law is necessary, that he should be adopted by the New Year. As far as the 54th amendment is concerned, the amendment is for me to put the part of the first article of article 25 in this version. This law takes effect the day after its publication. This is a norm that is used in European legislation, since the law cannot act as a hindsight, and this is not settled for events that may take place on the day of publication, but until the time of publication. In connection with that part of the second article of article 25, I propose to make such an editorial. “According to the fact that it has become invalid since the publication of this law, the Ukrainian Act on Prevention of Diseases of acquired AIDS Immunodeficiency and Social Protection of the Population.” End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to live in Europe, we also need to see how they have European legislation. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u12	I'm giving the reasoning to the committee. The amendment of the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin is not taken into account because of the rejection of amendment number 1. Amendment No. 1 is an amendment to the technical nature by which the Ukrainian National MP proposed a different form of adoption of this law, namely: to adopt this law as a new law with the simultaneous termination of the old law. If such a proposal were made in preparation for the first reading, it could be taken into account. Since the bill was already adopted in the first reading, it is inappropriate to make such a change. Moreover, from the point of view of norm-design technology, the chosen way of drafting the law in the new edition does not give rise to objections and is used in actual legislation every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote on Yuri Carmazin's 54th amendment. [[16:15:25]] For -6 Correction not supported. Please repeat the committee's proposal, Lilia Stepanovna, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u14	There is a proposal for all amendments to adopt the bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee a second reading and, in general, a bill of draft Law 6617-1 amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency Syndrome and Social Protection. Please vote. [[16:16:16]] For 258. Decision taken. So the law was passed. Now, you and I were supposed to be looking at the draft law on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity, but the committee didn't work on the table. So there are requests, fellow believers, and there is a letter from the committee to postpone consideration of the matter. Let's put it off for the last time, because there's a lot of talk about the need to simplify the allowable system, and the desire to make practical decisions isn't always working. That's why I'm voting on a motion to postpone the bill. [[Registration number 3224]] Please vote. [[16:17:14]] For the 250. Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Please, Vasil Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, a comparative table of the bill on social dialogue is before your attention. I would like to recall that the purpose of the bill is to provide opportunities for social partners, such as employers, trade unions, representatives of public authorities, to find solutions that will ensure, in our view, fair incomes and decent living standards for workers, the competitiveness of enterprises, and will be an important contribution to the development of the national economy. The bill was adopted on first reading on 3 September 2008. Since then, long and challenging work has been carried out with the involvement of social partners. I would like to point out that the Committee has reviewed the comparative table five times: 24 December 2008, 4 March 2009, 3 June 2009, 18 November 2009 and 15 December 2010. A comparative table contains 78 proposals by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Of which 76 were taken into account or taken into account and only 2 proposals were not taken into account. The Committee did not take into account the proposal of the People's Deputy Volinz, as they had been made in violation of the provisions of article 116 and proposed that changes should be made not to the text of the draft adopted on first reading but to the proposals of the people's deputies. 2 comments of the General Legal Administration have been taken into account. The most controversial issues concerned representativeness. Round tables with the International Labour Organization were held on this subject. The Committee took into account all the comments and recommendations of the International Labour Organization and all the comments of the people's deputies. For today, only 3 remain among the general criteria for the representativeness of trade union actors and employers. This is the legalization and status of these organizations. For trade unions and their organizations, associations are a total of 150,000. For employers'organizations and their associations, the total number of employees is 200,000 and industrial and territorial. In connection with the above, the Committee considered the comparative table at its meeting and requests the Supreme Council to support the Committee and adopt, on second reading and generally as the Act on Social Dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u17	Yes, dear colleagues, now as amended. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u18	Vladimir Mihajlovich, there are only two unaccounted for, but they have been made, I repeat, in violation of the Rules, not to the law, but to the proposals of the people's deputies. That is why they have not been taken into account. The rest are accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u19	People's deputy Volintz. Don't insist. 13th Amendment. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u20	Until 11:00, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u21	All right, all right. Now, one minute. Yes. Please, Papiev and Shevchuk. They're accounted for, it's accounted for. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you may remember that this is about the fact that the criteria of representativeness, so - called, are being supplemented here, and the articles here are being directly amended: article five, article six, are being formulated, article seven. And these representation criteria do everything that's allowed by the unions. I want to draw your attention to what's disrupting, well, at least two conventions, and 87th and 97th International Labour Organization. And now we've called it, or is Volintz okay? Volintz can't. The wolf is in a hospital with a broken head and a broken jaw and is well aware of it. And so it's very difficult that he's called, and he can't support his proposal today. Please don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u23	Dear Vladimir Yakovlevich, well, comment on something, because he says a lot of words, and in fact nothing. Secondly, I would like to tell you that the International Labour Office, in the memorandum on which the Committee was working, noted that these criteria are not excessive, are not in themselves contrary to the principle of freedom of association, and their existence is a normal norm in many European countries. So there's nothing to discuss and nothing to comment on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u24	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u25	What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u26	This is a way out of the 116th Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u27	Me. I'm using the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, it doesn't think so. Honorable colleagues, for they are a national MP. May I have your attention, please? Since the National MP insists on voting to confirm Amendment 11, I will put her to the vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The 11th amendment is taken into account by the committee. But at the request of the National MP, I am voting to confirm this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u28	I would like your support, distinguished colleagues, please. [[16:23:27]] For 218.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u29	Correction not supported. Please, Vasil Georgiyovich. Vassil Georgiyovich, what would you say about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u30	I want to tell you that without this amendment, all the meaning of this law is lost. There's a suggestion to go back to the vote because this amendment, I don't know, or someone didn't get it. Here all are respected, the Convention of the International Labour Organization. It's not enough that we took away 3 of the six standards of representation and left only 3. Therefore, without this norm, the hierarchy of social dialogue is missing at all, and I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u31	I'll put it back in, but let's stop having microcongratulations and do the work. Are you ready to vote? I am voting on the motion to return to the consideration of Amendment 11. Please vote. [[16:24:51]] For 228 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u33	It's not over yet, thank you very much. I'm voting on the approval of Amendment 11. Please vote. [[16:25:14]] For 229 Correction supported. Yes, all other amendments are included, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u34	Please accept it on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u35	Yes, please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. I'm sorry, I've already reported. Excuse me. I'll make the expert opinion. It's not the expert, it's the Chief Legal. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs further work on the third reading. I will be the first to vote on the committee's proposal: adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act on Social Dialogue in Ukraine. [[1440 registration number]] Please vote. [[16:26:26]] For 230 The law is passed. Now, honourable colleagues, you have a proposal for a draft decree to amend and establish the boundaries of the city of Komsomolsk Poltaw. We've discussed this once before and then we've put it off. We've been re-examined, we've got proposals, we've been asked to make the right decision, because there are all the conclusions, the right references. Are we going to discuss this again? Please, then, let us consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal - consideration of the issue of a reduced procedure [[16:27:23]] For 210 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 November 2010, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government conducted an additional study on the changes in the boundaries of Komsomolsk Poltaw region related to the possibility of including the protection of motorway gas zones and oil pipelines in the administrative and territorial boundaries of the city. There was a meeting and a thorough discussion on the basis of documentation that took place with the participation of the national deputies of Ukraine, the representatives of Minpalivoenergo, Ukratransnaft, Ukratranshazu, Cherkasitransgazu, the deputy head of the State Committee, the head of the General Department of Urban Construction and Architecture of the Poltavian Region of State of the Chief Engineer of the City General Plan, the first deputy of the Komsomol City Head. I would like to point out that the district’s chief architect and chief engineer of the master plan have documented that the city’s master plan and the design of the land structure are designed according to current legislation and fully meet the requirements for security zones. Any construction, the more housing was not done here before and is not planned for the future. The Law on Pipeline Transport of Ukraine and Cabinet Order No. 1747 of 16 November 2002 on the approval of the rules on the protection of road pipelines provided that security zones were established along the pipelines and that land areas within the protection zones were not removed from their owners and users, but were used with restrictions. [[Article 11 of the Law]] Part twelve, which is particularly noteworthy, part of the twelve rules states that construction, repair, ground, geological exploration, drilling, subversive, mining work on land within the protection zones is carried out only by written consent of the enterprises of the main pipeline transport and the relevant authorities of State control and control. So it turns out that no city council, no matter what they try, will get permission to do any kind of work in the presence of such safety nets. Moreover, article 11 of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u37	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u38	Public and community buildings. In view of the above, the committee confirms its previous position, supporting the submission of the Poltava District Council to change the boundaries of Komsomolsk and increase its territory by 3,000,371 hectares, totalling 11,000 acres [11,000 ha]. And he asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a positive decision on this issue by adopting a draft decision on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u40	Victor Mikolaiovich, what did we say to you? Victor Mikolaiovich, what did you and I say, where is it? We're in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u41	They were, and I am reading to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u42	Please come and tell me what you were talking about. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Demchisten, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to support you and eventually accept the boundaries of so divided by complex and social, and let's say a public situation like this. So our committee carefully considered the matter and studied it. And the question is, let's just say, the position of the gas transporters. But it's already political, not economic. So I urge you very much and ask you to support this bill and allow Komsomolski to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u44	Please, Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u45	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. It is understandable why such close attention is being paid when the boundaries of the population are changing. Especially in those cases where the land of agricultural assignment is passed on to the knowledge of cities. We understand what is then being done in cities with this land. For the sake of justice, however, it must be said that all aspects of Komsomolsk’s city have been very carefully studied and have come to the conclusion that all of this is logical. And I draw attention to the fact that many of our Ukrainian cities have grown out of narrow shirts that were 50-40 years ago. On behalf of the Poltavniks in the 50th year of the city, I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u46	Yes, who else insists on the performance? Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, you and I are looking at this bill for a second time. And then we gave the commission to the profile committee to study the subject and report. Unfortunately, the reporter does not respond to a task for a profile committee. After the previous meeting, a group of representatives of the National Deputies from the Committee plus the leadership of Komsomolska City were at my meeting, and we discussed this. What is it? Think about it, it increases by more than 3,000 acres [3,000 ha], and including lands that do not have the right to engage for one simple reason, because these are the lands in which the pipeline passes. Then we agreed that, as far as there's notice of those who serve this pipeline, we're going to exclude it from the city, so let them do it, and we're going to do the rest. Once again, this arrangement was among the reporters who reported here, other members of the committee and the management of the city of Komsomolsk. I don't know what changed after that, and now you're suggesting once again that the pipeline was there as it was going on, so no one would be responsible. Now there are garden houses on this pipeline. If they explode, no one will answer. And so let's rule out oil pipelines, and everything else included, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u48	Please, the microphone. Nascia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u49	I'll explain the situation. Where this pipeline goes, first of all, it's not a highway through the Dnipro River. The guards on this pipeline have been holding buildings from 5 to 6 floors since 1990, and no one will be able to take them anymore. To accept them legally is already within the city’s borders and to issue documents to the people. I don't think that's gonna happen. It's not that far from here, about 50 meters from the security zone, four cooperatives are standing. That's where it all came from, all this land. And to say that we're going to remove this land, we're saying that we're just not going to give people the right to own what they already have. And the village council would set aside land there, and everyone in the world would set these lands apart. So we just have to conquer it and add legal status to it. So I would ask everyone to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote in this way. Just a minute. I'll put the committee's proposal to the vote first. If it's not supported, then I'll make it clear that we're taking into account the security zones in the oil pipeline area, and that's what we're talking about. That's how we're going to vote. I am now voting on the first proposal by the committee for the adoption of the draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Komsomolsk Poltava. [[Registration number 7312]] Please. [[16:36:46]] For 232 I'll take the order. Now, dear colleagues, I'm introducing the draft decree on the handbook "Ukraine. Administrative-territorial system." I propose that we proceed with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:37:22]] For 215 Decision taken. Rapporteurs: Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, co-rapporteur: Demčishen Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The need to adopt a draft Decree on the manual “Ukraine. The administrative and territorial arrangements" are triggered by the following circumstances. At present, according to the tests, 12,000 111 official forms of local councils have been carried out on behalf of our committee. Wrong names for 324 local councils and 902 local sites were installed. Five hundred and sixty-six population centres with an incorrect category have been identified, 42 are not officially accounted for, 54 are officially accounted for, but are not at the local level, and 81 local councils have moved the centres and three settlements, which are subordinated to another rural council without appropriate district council decisions, and without the publication of messages in the News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Local councils, where names are wrong, have evidence of a state registration of a legal person who is not officially accounted for, have been granted permission by the executive authorities to produce seals and have accordingly official forms and seals with errors. And the residents were issued passports, birth certificates, marriage certificates, state land ownership certificates, real estate certificates, inheritance documents, too. Among the factors that have caused this situation is the absence of a single public official source from the administrative system. The last official reference work was published by the Supreme Council in 1987. In post-war years, six times, and in independence, not once. During this time, there have been major changes in the administration of the State: the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the updated Ukrainian spelling of the Plain region, the redesignation of the Lugansk region, the assignment of 576 locations, was attributed or changed. In 1987, Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u52	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u53	To date, an electronic manual entitled Ukraine has been developed and widely used to order the Supreme Council. An administrative and territorial arrangement" which is posted on the official website of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The official, informative fill-up of the handbook is carried out by the local authorities and local authorities on the basis of Parliament’s official decisions. This allows you to keep the database up-to-date, which gives you every reason to give the status manual "official" and to quickly prepare a manuscript of the next "Ukraine. Administrative-territorial arrangement.” Please support the adoption of a draft regulation that will allow for the perfect and informational provision of government authorities and local self-government, legal persons and citizens with the necessary official information about the decisions adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, local self-government decisions on administrative matters and the general state of affairs in the field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u54	Thank you. Yes, have a seat, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to suggest you take two projects and compare them. The difference between the two projects that I'm about to propose, which is now being proposed by the committee, is that I don't have to throw money at me, and everything happens within the limits of my duty. And what we're looking at right now is from the people's budget and from the funds that are now earmarked for the Supreme Council, we're going to have to allocate 789,000 dollars, that's all. Now, what's the status, how many of those books were published when they were published? Let me remind you that those booklets were published in 1947, 1962, in 1969, in 1973, in 1987. And I suggest that in view of the fact that there is an electronic age, because of this, that we write down that we give the web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the status of official status. Not the electronic manual, but the Web site of the entire Supreme Council, understand the difference, that's the first. The other one. To entrust the Supreme Council of Ukraine with providing, that is, a device that still receives money, a continuous update of the electronic database “Ukraine. The administrative and territorial system, which is posted on the Supreme Council website, publishes parliamentary hearing recommendations exclusively on the official website and provides for a 2011 cost reduction in this paper-based publication. Encourage the President to issue a decree on the register of official websites of public authorities and local self-government. Instruct the government to ensure that the Apparatus respond to the facts: the institutions of wrong rural, rural, urban councils, the misalignment of population categories, the emergence of population sites that are not officially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u56	Do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u57	I'm done. So, honourable national MPs, we would also have a handbook with you that we have on the official website, and we wouldn't be spending paper money, and we wouldn't be making another copy of it again where there's nowhere to store and find a place to do it. Because of this, given that we are already living in the electronic age, I propose my draft decree, which will save, I emphasize to those who have heard, almost 800,000 dollars. Today they can be saved directly if we don't accept what is being reported now and accept what Karmazin is proposing in a different way. I can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u58	Thank you. Yes, please, Demchishen Vasil Vasilovich, head of the subcommittee, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u59	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our committee on December 1st considered the proposed draft of your decree on the handbook "Ukraine. Administrative-territorial division", reported Viktor Mikolayovich Sinchenko. And yesterday we looked at what was proposed by the People's Deputy Karmazin, his version of this decision. The committee notes the relevance and timing of the legislative initiative, its practical need. Viktor Mikolaiovich said in his speech: The last book we published was published in 1987. And now, if we take that determination, we're going to have a printed manual, and it's going to become an official legal source, which will contain the information gathered about the entire administration system, which is going to be extremely important and relevant, both for the free system and for the local self-government. As for electronics, we have a website. Yuri Anatoliyovich just said, we have an electronic website in the Supreme Council, but we propose to give him official status. And it's going to contain in electronic form all the changes, all the information about administrative-territorial exclusively. This is exclusively the Supreme Council. The ruling or draft decision proposed by Yuri Anatoliyovich is, well, only the same as what Victor Mikolayovich and I are proposing with regard to the name. And by the way, he's already said it's going to be a website. The print is out of the question at all. And, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u61	The thousands of copies that are needed, waiting for local councils, authorities, are only 300,000. And to us. This Supreme Council, at the end of the 20 years of independence of Ukraine, will enter into a story that will release its first printed handbook, which, I say again, is awaited. So at our meeting yesterday, we confirmed once again that our committee would support the draft decree of 7395, which was introduced by sonny and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! I think we can keep going to the mice, and I'll take a closer look at these projects that we've proposed. This is the work of the committee, and this is the work of the appropriate unit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You'll think about what's written here. Separate line: select funding. He's gone. I've already received the budget. So I'm going to propose, I'm going to put the bill to a vote, and I'm going to reject it. I'll prepare and make a commission if the committee asks me to make suggestions on what this handbook should include. He's working with the committee and he's going to prepare a document. And then we're going to figure out how to prove this information on electronic media or on paper media. Well, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can't give a mandate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the decision-making process. Well, we can't really figure out what we're going to take. That we don't have a job anymore. So I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as the basis for the draft regulation. [[Registration number 7395]] And please make up your mind. [[16:48:35]] For the The decision is not taken. Now I'm voting for the adoption of the draft Decision by Yuri Carmazin. [[Registration number 7395-1]] Please identify yourself. [[16:49:01]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. The draft regulations have been rejected. I think we should thank the decision-makers for breaking this problem. And I ask you to prepare an appropriate commission for the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee to do this work. And we're going to do it without the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the 2011 Memorial and Jubilee Regulations. [[Registration number 7352]] At the same time, the chairman of the committee asked me to postpone consideration of the issue until January 2011. I'll put this proposal to the vote. Please make up your mind. A motion to postpone consideration of the project is put to the vote on the Remembrance and Jubilee Regulations in 2011 (registration number 7352). Please identify yourself. [[16:50:14]] For -8 The decision is not supported. That's too bad. Dear colleagues! The report has the head of the committee, Vladimir Yavorowski. In the absence of him, the documents are given to you, so I will put to the vote to adopt the draft decree. I'm betting on a proposal for acceptance, let's try it as a basis, and then if the Supreme Council takes it as a basis, we're going to rule out what doesn't like. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the marking of memorial dates and Jubilee in 2011, please be determined. [[Registration number 7352]] [[16:51:13]] For -14 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote on the orientations for the drafting of the regulation. [[Registration number 7352]] Please decide how to vote. Dear colleagues! Well, you don't want to lose a good cause. [[16:51:45]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. Yes, dear fellows! I now propose to you a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the establishment of the annual Supreme Council Prize for Teachers of General Education, Vocational Technical, Preschool and Non-School Education Institutions. Please consider this issue with a reduced procedure. At the committee's suggestion. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:52:26]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Catherine Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This decision, in order to make your remarks, can be voted on without discussion. I would like to remind you that, with the aim of raising the role and authority of the educator in society, encouraging teachers to work creatively, efficiently and improving the prestige of the teaching profession, in 2006, the Supreme Council adopted a decree on the establishment of an annual Supreme Council Award for Education, Vocational and Technical Education. But in this room, you made comments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on the need to issue a prize with the award of a prize winner, and a breastplate of the prize winner, as well as to ban the award award from the same person again and to clarify the award procedure. What I'm saying is that your task is to be carried out by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on education and science. I'm going to show you the only example of a diploma, a sign. In the decree, we also prohibit the rejuvenation of the prize to the same person. And here's the procedure: he's serving the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and at his special commission, he's doing it. That's such a breastplate: this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine with you, and it says here that it's a prize. And also a degree in laureate. Here's the laureate's diploma, the look of it. And inside we wrote about, you see, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the text, for which the annual prize is awarded to the teacher or teacher or master, in short, to those people, thanks to which education is still available.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u64	You don't have to? Dear colleagues, I ask you again, does no one insist on discussing the issues? No, it's not. Then I put to the vote a proposal for a committee on adoption as a basis and for the whole of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the establishment of an annual award for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school educational institutions. [[Registration number 6706]] Please vote. [[16:55:29]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm introducing a draft Order on the 2011 appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists. The reporter is Catherine Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, I would also like to ask you without discussion, because scientists, a special commission, a working group, have been published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. And that's why it doesn't matter to you, though we can, but there's no point in changing your name. What I'm saying is that, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling, we are told in the decree that we are condemning 30 named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young scientists, doctors of science, candidates of science who have prepared doctoral dissertations. The grant size of 2,000 bracelets. There are 15 jobs available for the acquisition of named scholarships. Please note that out of 30 scholarships, only 15 people applied for this scholarship. This indicates that you and I have a disaster with young scientists and young scientists. The work that has been put forward is very relevant, and they fully meet the requirements laid down in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the works of candidates for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's scholarship were published in our newspaper Voice of Ukraine, as well as posted on the committee's website. Negative reactions were not expressed regarding these works. Moreover, the competitive commission repeatedly discussed each job in detail at its meeting. And so I suggest you have lists, if necessary, I will read, but you have lists of the winners of those who claim, and if we make a decision, they will receive a scholarship, a name scholarship from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, too. And in the budget we predict, it's not the first year. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u66	It goes on and on, but we have to be determined to identify the people we issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u67	I want to say again, this is in the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We repeatedly, Mikhailo Vasilovich, have already awarded this scholarship, or the funds are foregone. And please don't be saved yet, dear fellow, by young scientists. I want to tell you again: only 15 out of 30 get this scholarship.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, this is a traditional decision. The committee held an appropriate selection, and it was carried out under the auspices of the committee of experts. Presented representatives from different regions and from different fields of science, the request is made to support the committee’s decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee on adoption as a basis and for the whole of the draft Decision on the appointment in 2011 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists. [[Registration number 7416]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u69	I'd like everyone to vote. [[16:59:32]] For 249
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u70	Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine also annually condemns the prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technical development. The project is done, and the cost is foreseen in our budget. Therefore, there is a request to support this draft decision. I'm voting on the proposal for a committee on adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Decree, registration number 7417, for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2010. Please vote. [[17:00:35]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Order on the withdrawal of individual draft laws of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, is the appropriate decision of the committee. Since these bills have lost their relevance, or have found their reflection, they have been implemented in other bills that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted on these issues, so your view is proposed by the relevant draft Decree. I'm voting on the Bill of Decree 7349 on the withdrawal of individual draft laws on the issue of the fuel and energy complex. Please vote. [[17:01:31]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am introducing a draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on the situation of young people in Ukraine on the theme “Youth for a healthy lifestyle”. Reporter - Lukyanova Catherine Eugeneva, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u71	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree adopted on 6 October 2010, Parliamentary hearings took place on 3 November 2010 on the subject: Parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine "Youth for a healthy lifestyle". I would like to inform you that more than 500 people were involved in the work of the recorded hearings. Among them are Ukrainian national deputies, government officials, ministries and State committees, local executives and local self - government bodies, scientists, social workers for the family, children and young people, youth and children’s social organizations, and so on. Many of them participated in previous parliamentary hearings held in 2003 and were dedicated to developing a healthy lifestyle for young people in Ukraine. And unfortunately, almost all the speeches and information and analysis materials from the government have been given to the hearing, have been found to have failed to instill fashion in a healthy sports way of life over the past seven years. The lesson of listening was to think about the urgent need at all levels of social consciousness, to confirm that health is a population of the physical, spiritual, social, moral, aesthetic state of our young. At present, the situation regarding these critical aspects of Ukrainian citizens’ health has been highlighted. According to the participants in the parliamentary hearings, they have reached their goal. A wide range of problems related to the development of a healthy life - style for young people in Ukraine, the proposed ways to overcome existing obstacles, and a large number of suggestions to the Recommendation for Parliament’s hearings on the subject have been discussed comprehensively and thoroughly. The vast majority of the proposals made by the participants are taken into account in the work and recommendation of parliamentary hearings, where specific programmes and actions are defined, which, subject to their approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should solve a number of key problems with regard to improving the physical condition of children and young people, the prospects for the social establishment of young citizens. On December 23, however, respected colleagues, the Family Committee, youth and sports, received a letter from the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, in which he draws attention, offering very sound suggestions regarding the recommendations that we would propose to vote in Parliament. I think it would be appropriate, as these proposals have come today, to listen to the Tax and Customs Committee, and also to the administrative reform that is about to take place in Ukraine, and to send this decision to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I propose a proposal for the drafting of a Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on the situation of young people in Ukraine on the theme "Youth for a healthy lifestyle". [[Registration number 7384]] Please vote. [[17:05:10]] For the 250. Decision taken. Now, Your Honor, your opinion is on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The State of Industrial Safety and Labour Protection." The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Vassil Georgiyovich, if there are no disagreements, we will vote, please. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! President of Ukraine Viktor Fedorović Janukovic is tasked with the Government's task of improving the situation of the country's protection of work. In this context, Parliamentary hearings were held in this Chamber on 17 November on “The state of industrial safety and labour security”. The hearings noted that the normative framework for labour protection, despite its considerable size, was imperfect and did not address issues arising from the development of new economic relationships, the emergence of new forms of ownership, and so on. It is clear that in Ukraine more than 9,000 State labour protection legislations are obsolete and need to be revised. Thus, the inventory and correction of industrial safety legislation is one of the most urgent issues of social and labour development in Ukraine. It was also stressed that one of the main indicators of working conditions was the level of productive trauma. Although we have recently seen a downward trend, according to the International Labour Organization, the level of production injury in Ukraine remains one of the highest in Europe. We have 100,000 employees in comparison with Britain – more than 8.5 times more than Germany – 5.5 times more than Japan – three times more France and Austria than twice as many. The number of jobs that do not meet health and standards remains high. According to the State of Ukraine, the number of people working in major sectors of the economy under conditions that do not comply with health standards is 30 per cent. This means that 1 in 3 employees works in our country under harmful productive factors, whose levels are more than permissible. Proposals and comments were made at the parliamentary hearings to improve industry, safety and safety at work. The proposals were considered by a working group established by the Committee, which included not only our committee but also other representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, all-Ukrainian employers' associations, trade unions, scientists. And the Committee considered all these proposals on 1 December, took them into account and introduced to the Supreme Council the recommendations that you have in your hands on the state of industrial safety and safety of work. A number of such proposed substantive activities are planned to significantly improve the situation in our country. Please therefore support the proposal of our committee and decide on the adoption of the recommendation on the fundamental improvement of the status of protection of work in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Industrial Safety and Labour Protection. Registration number 7424. [[17:09:10]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on how to proceed with the drafting of the regulation. [[17:09:34]] For 242 Decision taken. I am introducing a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Strategy for the Humanities Policy of Modern Ukraine". The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. None. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal, namely, the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft decision. [[Registration number 7444]] [[17:10:18]] For -8 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the return of the draft decision to the committee for processing. Please be sure. [[17:10:41]] For two. The decision is not taken. The draft ruling is off-limits. Yes, Your Honor, I propose your consideration of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Guarantee of the Rights of Concessionaires, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 17.11.2010. [[Registration number 4674]] The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovic, co-rapporteur, Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Mr. Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u75	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On October 19, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted 251 votes in second reading and in general, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts guaranteeing the rights of concessionaires. However, the law introduces the possibility of applying to relationships resulting from the continuation of concessional activities, acts of legislation, and after they have become invalid. I mean, it's not a valid act. The President of Ukraine feels that this is not in line with certain articles 58 and 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine in time. According to the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, laws and other legal and regulatory acts have no reverse effect in time. In this connection, the Head of State proposes in paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of section I of article 24 of the Law. 1 The Ukraine Act “For concessions” part 4 delete, respectively replacing the numbering of the next part. In addition, the President of Ukraine concluded during the analysis of the law that the changes to article 3 of the Ukraine Act on concessions, which proposes to settle land leases for concession activities, relate not to part five, but to part six. This conclusion of the Head of State is based on the fact that this change does not take account of the recent changes in the numbering of the parts of article 3 of the Act on concessions introduced by the Law on State-owned Partnership, which took effect on 30 October 2010. The amendment of this part of the fifth edition of the proposed law will lead to two parts of the same content in article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions. The President of Ukraine is then of the view that it is appropriate to clarify the relevant provisions of the law, including the valid numbering of parts of article 3 of the Act on Concessions. So it is proposed in paragraph 1, paragraph 2, paragraph 1, of section I of the law in paragraph 1 of the first reference to part 5 to replace the reference to part 6 and in paragraph 2 of the second number 5 to substitute 6. Please support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u76	Thank you, too, Yuri Romanovich. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u77	The distinguished colleagues, the President's proposal to the Committee, in principle, have considered and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agree with them. Approve the law with the President's proposals. The previous rapporteur rightly said that there was one technical amendment concerning references to specific parts and one amendment relating essentially to the bill. The President proposes to delete part four of the bill, which protected the concessionaire from amending existing legislation. I would also like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the High Council's expert office, which disagrees with the President's latest draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to guarantee concessionaires' rights in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 4674. Please vote. [[17:15:53]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to return to the question. Please vote back on the matter. [[17:16:17]] For 230 We're back. I am now voting on the adoption of the law in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:16:41]] For 230 The law is passed. Yes, dear fellows! We now need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the harmonization of budgetary legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that we have adopted a similar bill today before considering the state budget and Baranov’s proposal, the chairman of the committee, he is no longer relevant. So we don't look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u80	So we may then vote for the removal?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u81	Remove from the review, let's vote for the removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. The Supreme Council, if not included in the agenda, is considered rejected, withdrawn. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[Registration number 7401]] Please be sure. [[17:17:57]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! I propose that you consider the draft Act amending article 1 of the Law on the Structure, Mandate and Speciality of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agrarian Association, the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[on the state-owned enterprise Wesselwski]] [[Registration number 7285]] Please vote. [[17:18:42]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy, Trigutenko Sergey Mikolayovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u83	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Structure, Power and Special Law Economic. The characteristics of the legal and economic regime of the property complex of the Masandra National Industrial and Agrarian Association, developed by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy for the purpose of exclusion from the National Agricultural Association Masandra of the state-owned enterprise Wesselskie. To implement the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 6 January 2010, number 93 on the restructuring of state-owned enterprises Wesselske Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine is being reorganized by the state-owned enterprise Wesselske. In Ukraine's Single State Register of Enterprises and Organizations, the state-owned enterprise Wesselskie has been shut down. Taking into account what has been said, it is proposed that the settlement of the issue of the active composition of Masandra’s national production unit be changed to Article 1. The mayor's office is asking for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u85	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u86	No, you can't, because the procedure is shortened. I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 16 November considered the draft Act of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Structure, Power and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agrarian Association of Masandra. [[on the state-owned enterprise Wesselvska]] Bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine In addition to what has already been stopped by Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food Sergey Mikolayovich Trigubenko, I would like to point out that the statute of approval for the appointment of the Director-General of the Association is being amended by a special authority in the field of agrarian politics and food, as well as article 2 states that directors of enterprises belonging to Masandry are being appointed and dismissed as Director-General of the Association for Harmonization with a specially authorized authority in the field of agrarian policy and food. The committee recommends the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Structure, Power and Specificity of the Legal Economic Regime of the National Agricultural Association Masandra, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, based on the proposals made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u88	Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the national deputies? Katerina Vaschuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, it is like a simple law, but we must approach it very carefully. And if we vote today, it's just the first reading. It's Masandra, national pride, it's the center of winemaking, which is really the center. And this reform that we're being offered, and what we're going to be assigned to lead from here, suggests that this enterprise is just about to be privatized. Of course, it's a very nice piece, but how will it be done, on what basis? This enterprise has always been a national pride of Ukraine and of the state. Therefore, it is vital that we carefully approach this issue and not vote in general right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u90	Please, People's Deputies, Daych. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! I'm surprised Katerina Vaschuk doesn't own this situation and puts her where she doesn't want to go, Hall. The Veselovsky Sokhoz is a bankruptcy coven, and the forced action to transfer it to a number of standing sea-coasts is combined to make it stronger and stronger. And the Cabinet of Ministers did the right thing by bringing these two farms together, leaving them all in the Massandra combination. There's nothing wrong with it, but we did the right thing. People there haven't been paid in six months. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u92	Who else insists on making this statement? Yes, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of draft Law 7285 amending article 1 of the Law on the Structure, Authorisation and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agricultural Association of Masandra. [[on the state-owned enterprise Wesselvska]] [[17:24:51]] For 254 Considered the basis. Gregory Mikolaiovich, what's the next offer? In general, do we accept?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u93	Well, there's nothing to add to it that needs to be accepted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u94	No objections? None. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law amending article 1 of the Law on the Structure, Authorisation and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agricultural Association of Masandra. [[on the state-owned enterprise Wesselvska]] [[Registration number 7285]] Please vote. [[17:25:47]] For 261 The law is passed. Your opinion, Your Honor, is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Capital of Ukraine, the Hero City of Kiev. [[on the order in which district councils are formed]] [[7307 Registration Number]] A proposal from the committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:26:21]] For 217 Decision taken. Reporter – First Deputy Justice Minister Emilianov Inna Ivanovna, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Triduk Mikola Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev, has been drafted in connection with the implementation of section II of the Second Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Capital Act, the city of Kiev, on the order of formation of district councils. Yes, especially the recently adopted Supreme Council of Ukraine has made it possible, not the obligation to function in the circuits. in the district of Kyiv, the district of the town of council. The changes that have been made have led to the need to normalize the solutions. First, the management of property and financial resources owned by the territorial communities and districts in Kiev, budgetary matters, and the termination of the exercise by the district authorities of the respective district councils in Kiev. What solutions have been offered to address these issues. First, the draft law proposes to limit the possibility of the territorial community of Kiev or the Kyiv City Council of decision-making on the formation, non-establishment of district councils before the election process of the elected deputies of these councils, rather than as previously defined: until the day of the next election. The project also proposes that the territorial community of Kiev and Kiev City Council, which are authorized to decide not to form district councils in Kiev City, be honoured to determine in such a decision the date when the district administrations of Kiev’s respective district councils will cease to operate. In addition, the project contains solutions to the issue of property and financial resources that are owned by regional councils in the city when decisions are made not to form such councils. And such subjects are invited to identify the Kyiv City Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this project, he will resolve the problematic issues that have arisen in practice today since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Capital Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u96	Thank you. Mikolo Fedorovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine - the City of Kiev was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on 10 November 2010. The draft law proposes to amend articles 3, 7, 11 and 19 of the Law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is also tasked with introducing a bill on the mechanism for its implementation on a monthly basis from the date of entry into force of this law. A Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a Committee on Budget Affairs have submitted their comments and proposals to the bill, which concludes that the bill will not affect the revenue and expenditure portion of the national and local budgets. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also concludes with a number of comments and suggestions to the bill. During the committee discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies did not agree on the conclusion of the proposed Ukrainian Law. Therefore, according to part four of article 111 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government introduces the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for decision-making. [[on the order in which district councils are formed]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, you may be able to support this proposal. Let's help the committee, we'll take the bill as a basis, and let's keep them determined on how to work it out for the second reading. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. [[on the order in which district councils are formed]] [[Registration number 7307]] Please vote. [[17:31:23]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a proposal from the committee to consider the following law under reduced procedure. [[Registration number 7308]] Please vote. [[17:31:53]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Holos Volodymyr Ivanovich. Correspondent is a member of the Committee of Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich. Personally, I mean the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on social protection issues, which resides in the area of observation, objects designed to deal with radioactive waste, is designed by the Government to implement a plan for the preparation of projects and acts necessary to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the classification of social protection of the population living in the area of observation, business, mining and processing of uranium ores, nuclear installations and objects for dealing with radioactive waste. The purpose of the law is to regulate the financial and economic relations arising from the obligations of the operating organization to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, in part to ensure the improvement of the living and working conditions of citizens at sites for the handling of radioactive waste. The implementation of this law by Ukraine does not require the allocation of additional funds from Ukraine’s State Budget, as expenditure is to be made on the basis of revenue from the State Fund for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes. The adoption of an act will allow a clear and reliable legal mechanism to implement socio-economic risk compensation for the population living in observation areas of objects designed to deal with radioactive waste. According to a review of the scientific and technical administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the profile committee is proposing, as a result of the first reading, a bill to adopt as a basis, and generally as a law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is requesting support for this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u100	Thank you, sit down, please. The committee is Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u101	Dear National Deputies, in Ukraine today, there are no mechanisms to implement the provisions of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, which would provide a reliable basis for the realization of the rights of the population of the territories where the objects for dealing with radioactive waste are located. The implementation of the bill has been noted that it will have no impact on the income of the budget and on the implementation of the State Budget Act of Ukraine in the current budget period. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusions of 12 November 2010, notes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in a letter dated 12 November 2010, noted that the bill was drafted and registered in accordance with articles 90 and 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster at its meeting on 17 November 2010 decided to support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include it in the agenda of the seventh session and adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard the report, the report, you've seen the bill. There is virtually no possibility of making changes in preparation for the second reading. If there is no objection, I will put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee as a basis and as a whole of the draft law. [[Registration number 7308]] Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:36:22]] For the 250. The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been made proposals in accordance with Article 131 of the Customs Tariff Act. There were disagreements, they were worked out, they were considered by the committee, and they were in agreement with the legal administration. And we have to vote them so that we can get the law straight to the President of Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of these clarifications and reconciliations contained in the relevant data. It's given to you. Please vote. [[17:37:19]] For 248 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask that we work quickly. We don't have a lot of bills left here, they're to the government, but there are government representatives present, so we can look at them. This is about a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve bankruptcy procedures. [[Registration number 7329]] Request to be considered by the Committee under reduced procedure. Please vote. Yes, Banduro's reporter, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please report to the rostrum. [[17:38:01]] For 227 Decision taken. Please report to the First Deputy Minister of Economy, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Correspondent to the committee's subcommittee on economic policy Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Bankruptcy in Ukraine is currently excessively long-term, and bankruptcy procedures are not followed. The average duration of bankruptcy is 2 years 9 months. As a result, according to the World Bank business rating, Ukraine ranked 150 out of 183. The proposed draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws to improve bankruptcy procedures provides for the following. First, with the aim of bringing information to a wider range of interested persons and avoiding abuse of advertising, the bill provides for further publicity of information on the conduct of bankruptcy and the official website of the State Bankruptcy Authority. Second, so far, property management and rehabilitation procedures can be extended indefinitely, leading to the existence of companies in bankruptcy sometimes up to five years. A bill aimed at solving the identified problem defined a clear deadline for the conduct of procedures: the property of the debtor – 12 months, the sanctions – 18 months without the possibility of continuation. The bill also provides for the development of a remedial plan in the property management procedure only on the basis of a recovery plan. In the absence of a recovery plan, a decision should be made to introduce a liquidation procedure. The bill also provides for the possibility for the debtor to file an application for a violation of the bankruptcy case, together with a recovery plan agreed upon by the creditors’ congregations, i.e. a judicial settlement of disputes. The bill addresses the abuse of the right to appeal court decisions in bankruptcy proceedings by establishing clear rules of appeal. The conflict with the implementation of the executive and the introduction of the bankruptcy case is resolved in the bill through the introduction of a new norm, according to which the State’s executioner after the official publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u105	Bankruptcy is denied the discovery of executive conduct. In view of the above, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered the matter and has also brought it up. Is it gonna be Europe? Please. Because I'm looking, there's no reporter. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u107	The Committee considered the bill at its meeting and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading. I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the expert office. There are many comments to this bill. And at the Committee's meeting when it considered it for recommendations, you also made a lot of comments. The Committee therefore recommends that you accept it only as a basis, but not as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u108	Just on the ground. Yes. No one insists on the performance? No, it's not. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve bankruptcy procedures. Please vote. [[17:41:44]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the powers of military officials in the Armed Forces of Ukraine]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. And the reporter, the first Deputy Minister of Defence of Možarovsky Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please come to the rostrum. [[17:42:29]] For 209 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u109	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, prepared by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, is in motion. [[on the powers of military officials in the Armed Forces of Ukraine]] The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal framework for the exercise of authority by military officials in the Armed Forces of Ukraine during the cessation of violations committed by military personnel, military and reserve personnel during the time of the congregations and by personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the course of their duties. Amendments to the Code will allow the administrative detention of the persons concerned to be regulated, as well as the procedures for the drafting of administrative delinquency reports for them. The implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine. On November 3, this year, the project was approved at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Legislative Security. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u110	Thank you, too. I'm asking the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Mr. Schemczuk Viktorovich, to inform the Supreme Council of the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honourable ones! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legislative Security has considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the powers of officials, military law enforcement in the Ukrainian armed forces]] The bill proposes to amend a number of articles of the Code on Administrative Offences, with a view to improving its provisions on the exercise of powers by military officials and the rule of law. The adoption of the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences will enable military officials and law enforcement officials in the Ukrainian Armed Forces to carry out their tasks effectively and lawfully to ensure the rule of law among military personnel. During the discussion of the bill, the committee made separate proposals and observations that could be taken into account in the drafting of the draft law for second reading. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the powers of military officials in the Armed Forces of Ukraine]] The main science-expert management holds the same position. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, no one insists on speaking? There is a proposal for the committee to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal for the adoption on the basis of Bill 7247 amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the powers of military officials in the Armed Forces of Ukraine]] Please vote. [[17:45:54]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you now have a proposal for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[establishing administrative responsibility for a breach in the field of national registration]] [[7254]] In summary, the committee proposes to consider the matter. Please vote. [[17:46:31]] For 218. Reporter Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich, please. The decision is made on a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honourable ones! The initiator of this bill is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the person of the State Enterprise of Mikhail Brodsky. The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement considered a bill submitted by Kabmin to establish administrative responsibility for violations in the field of state registration. The bill proposes to clarify the order in which registration of legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs, and to introduce administrative responsibility for the violation of such an order are kept and forwarded by mail. Such a necessity is due to the lack of rules in the current legislation governing the state registration procedure on the order in which officials retain the registration of registered legal and natural persons and the order in which they are transferred. To specify the order of storage and mail of legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs will not be able to intentionally lose, to be lost by public registrars of transferable registrations. The main scientific and expert office has taken a different position, it believes that this bill should be rejected, because such a violation is nothing more than a disciplinary offense. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on its first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u114	Yes, dear fellows, the committee is offering to accept as a basis. Who has another opinion? Who insists on the performance? None. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt on the basis of Bill 7254. Please vote. [[17:48:37]] For 246 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee also proposes to consider draft Bill 7249 under the reduced procedure. Please vote. The rapporteur is requested to attend the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kiryushina Igor Volodymyrovich. [[17:49:05]] For the 220. Decision taken. He will report on the draft Law amending article 7 of the Law on Pipeline Transport will be Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Kiryushin Igor Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur Romanyuk Mikola Prokopovich. [[on the head of the housing fund]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Act amending article 7 of the Law on Pipeline Transport has been developed to implement the 2009 Plan of Action from the stabilisation of the financial situation of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance of 11 March 2009 No. 237. An analysis of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Pipeline Transport shows that this law does not identify the concept of a state-owned pipeline transport company and the National Stock Company Naftogaz Ukraine, a subsidiary and its founder. Thus, the standard of part four of article 7 of the Pipeline Transport Act, which takes into account the changes made by the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Pipeline Transport Act on Pipeline Enterprises, deprives NAK Naftogaz and its subsidiaries and subsidiaries of the possibility of doing any kind of right to any essential means. The bill called for the lifting of restrictions that prohibit the exercise of rights in respect of housing funds that operate on the balance sheet of NAC Naftogaz, Ukraine, and its subsidiaries and enterprises established under the listed company. It is noteworthy that at present more than one thousand apartments and houses have been stopped from being transferred to municipal property, with a total area of about 100,000 square feet [100,000 sq m]. Taking into account the noted and relevant issue of privatization of housing, Ukrainian citizens who work in mainstream pipeline companies, please support the adoption of the draft Act amending article 7 of the Pipeline Transport Act, second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u116	Thank you, too. Please, Romanuk Mikopovich, deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u117	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 3 November 2010, the Committee considered a bill amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Pipeline Transport Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the head of the housing fund]] The project is intended to remove restrictions that prohibit the exercise of legitimate rights in respect of housing funds that are accounted for by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, its subsidiaries, companies, and households. The stock control packages have been transferred to the NAC statute fund Naftogaz Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office notes that the first reading of the project could be based on the following considerations and suggestions. According to the Chief Research Administration, the changes proposed by the project are not determined that the alienation of housing funds should take place to privatize them to the citizens who live in them. The second reading committee will take into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Pipeline Transport Act was adopted on the first reading as a basis. [[on the head of the housing fund]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u118	Thank you, too. Who insists on the performance? No one insists. Since the position of the committee and the scientific and expert board on the adoption of the bill coincides, I am voting on this proposal for adoption on the basis of draft Law 7249 amending article 7 of the Pipeway Transport Act. [[on the head of the housing fund]] Please vote. [[17:53:19]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, maybe we'll adopt this bill as a whole, there's one sentence that's with him. Is there no objection? Because of the unanimous opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the adoption of the whole draft Law amending article 7 of the Law on Pipeway Transport. [[on the head of the housing fund]] [[Registration number 7249]] Please vote. [[17:54:01]] For 257 The law is passed. Now, honourable colleagues, your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat. [[on requirements for notary activity]] The committee suggests that this issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. And the reporter, please, the First Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna. [[17:54:32]] For 219 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Notaryate Act, which is proposed to transfer the function of professional notary committees to the Ministry of Justice. In accordance with the Bill of the Higher Qualifications Commission of the Notariat, the following powers are attached: conducting a qualification and re-examination test for the right to notary activity. Consideration of the issue and decision on the annulment of the certificate of the right to take part in notarial activity and the decision to issue a certificate to the Ministry of Justice. The adoption and implementation of the bill will allow for the admission of notarial activities of the most trained professionals, which in turn are aimed at improving citizens' access to and quality of notarial services. In addition, giving the Higher Qualifications Committee a notary of authority to review the cancellation of a certificate of entitlement to notary activity will strengthen the monitoring of the activity of notaries in order to prevent violations in the performance of their professional duties. I'd like to support you, honourable national MPs, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u120	Thank you. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u121	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The Committee on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, registration number 7304 of 28.10.2010, submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for improved procedures for citizens to be allowed to engage in notarial activities through the reform of the system of qualification committees of notariat. National deputies, members of the committee support the initiative to improve the provisions of Ukraine's Notariat Act, aimed at improving the right regulation of citizens' access to notarial activity, and believes that the changes will enhance the authority of notarius, its responsibility to the state and citizens. In line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 7304]] Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Act “Pro notariat” as a result of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and entrusted to the Committee to further develop it into a second reading, taking into account the proposals made by entities of the law of the legislative initiative. [[Registration number 7304]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-23-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, who insists on the performance? You don't? Proposal for a committee: To adopt a draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on Notariat. [[on requirements for notary activity]] Please vote. Can it be accepted in general? [[17:58:12]] For 251 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a draft of the Amnesty Law. But we agreed to include the committee in the agenda. Unfortunately, there is no committee decision, no scientific expertise. So we can't look at it. What, what? Well, I get it. I'll put it to a vote. Who is in favour of withdrawing from the Rules to consider the draft Amnesty Law without a committee decision and without the conclusion of a scientific and scientific management? Please. [[17:59:08]] For 215 Unfortunately, no decision is made. I would ask the committee to consider it immediately so that we can make the right decision. Dear National Deputies! We have considered with you the answers to all the questions that were scheduled for December 23, Thursday. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue in plenary mode for 10 hours. Thanks for the job.
