ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:03:18]] The 422 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies – Gritsak Vasil Mikolaiovich, Novik's Julius Volodymyrovna, Pierre Vijacheslav Grigorovich and Savichenk Igor Vasilovich. Let us greet our colleagues, wish them good health. () [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on February 16, 2010. Twenty-four questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 3 laws and 2 decrees were passed, 9 bills were adopted on a basis, 2 bills were sent for re-reading, 7 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the national deputies with proposals, announcements, reports. I'd like the National Deputies to sign up for a statement from the rostrum. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, please. Get ready for the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u2	A respected chairman, respected colleagues, respected radios, and TV audiences. We'd like to report that yesterday, at last, was an event that was expected by all those who thought that the elections had been falsified. And we have the opportunity, I hope, on a live basis to prove it. Yesterday, the Supreme Administrative Court accepted the late application of President Volodymyrny Timoshenko to the Presidents of the Yulia, and we will be able to see these days directly all those violations that prove for the last time that there were no fair and transparent elections in Ukraine. Along with the late application, the volumes of material on the biggest forgeries that have taken place in the entire series of regions of Ukraine that relate to streets and phantom houses that were included in the voters' lists at a time when there were no such streets and such houses. Where materials have been passed on to thousands of allegations of the inclusion of the dead and those who have long since emerged from the premises, to the voters' lists and to the voters' register, and that is what will be the subject of the trial. Where materials have been transmitted regarding so - called home ballots, there has been a direct violation of international standards and standards that provide for a clear procedure for voting at home with supporting documents. And we're going to bring such facts in these days so much that we're going to prove that these elections were forged. And that's why yesterday's decision by Parliament, and more specifically that part of Parliament, which consists of a faction of the Regions, the "Block of Lithuania", the communists and parts of "Our Ukraine" that are eager to lead to the oath of a candidate to the Presidents, at a time when the court has taken direct action all the material that proves falsification, is the haste that once and for all shows that this has been necessary for only one purpose: to cover up this forgery and to put it to trial. We are no longer surprised that, during the surrender of these materials, the Supreme Administrative Court was closed to the barn castle by the representatives of the Party of the Regions, so that there is no free access to justice regarding the transfer of all materials, and therefore we are not surprised that today there is pressure on the judges of the Court of Appeal when seven criminal cases are opened. In this regard, it is not a case of bribery, for which the prosecution is silent, namely, in fact, in order to intimidate those judges who have made impartial and honest decisions. And for us, the fact that the fear of the courts has already become a practice of the Party of Regions. So I'm convinced that the courts will prove these forgeries that took place in these elections and we'll prove that we're re-voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u3	Finish up, please. The national MPs of the Kings and the Najdona factions of the Communists hand over the right to speak to Catherine Samuel, six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u4	Thank you very much. As long as there's a terrible struggle to take up a chair, I want to raise a question that directly relates to the work of today's government, as well as the work of ministries and state committees. Dear colleagues! Dearly beloved, our radio listeners! In the last ten years, a large proportion of Hersonian settlements and lands have been flooded with surface waters and submerged with groundwater. Depending on the situation, nearly 300 locations are at risk. And to this day, nearly 300 people are suffering from this terrible tribulation. The question was raised at parliamentary hearings, resulting in the development of a comprehensive program to combat this scourge. And the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which, as we know traditionally, like the Ministry of Culture, is headed by motorists, has done everything to ensure that this program is not accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the problem of warning and eliminating the flooding and flooding of Hersonian territory has not yet been solved. Today, I am conveying the mood of the people, the cry of their souls regarding the extremely tense situation in rural settlements, Calancetsky, Zurupinski, Genicea, Novotrojetsky, Chaplinsky, Skadovsky, and the cities of Geniceska and Skadowska, which are on the coasts of the Azov and Black Seas. In the basements of the water, the living quarters are flooded, you cannot leave the house, even in your boots, and you have fish boots. All of this, as a result of ignoring the state’s problems for many years, has virtually failed to pay for electricity. Of the 926 pump stations, drainage stations are only 45, in the area of disaster. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to give a protocol order, not to go to court, there is someone to walk in, but a commission to intervene urgently in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, appropriate state structures to ensure the fight against this natural disaster. The head of the Herson District Administration, Mr. Selenkov, who received the devastating results of the election of the President of Ukraine, gathered the heads of the district government after the first round and released them by March 5 on a so - called vacation and said, “Relax, and on March 5 we will meet and talk about what to do next in our area. Thus, today, there is no one to address the people of the Hersonian region. I don't know, someone here is very afraid of mentioning Soviet times, so if in Soviet times at least one leader allowed himself to stay at home in such a situation and not allow the proper structures to work to save people, I don't know what to do. To this day, there is complete silence, full of noninterference in the processes that are taking place today, not only in the Hersonian region, but in other areas. I think the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is obliged to urgently take all measures to start fighting this scourge today. Unfortunately, I've already said that state structures have given up on this issue. As far as the money is concerned. So you didn't have to do the election to pay off the debts to those who are trusted candidates to the Presidents from power. In order not to make money out of a stabilising fund, once again, to support businesses where business leaders were, they were trusted individuals or political party activists. I ask you very much from all Hersonians, please take all measures until you see this authority in power, otherwise and the next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction, prepare Yuri Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Despite all politics, we must keep in mind Ukraine’s food security, so that our Ukrainian citizens do not run out of bread. And that's what I'm talking about from the experience of our Volin region. Today in Ukraine, we are proud to have grown a serious crop of bread, that we sold so much bread abroad, that it exports the currency, which increases the production of all gross and other products. Unfortunately, only one thing that makes money is not peasants, but traders, mainly companies with foreign capital, Karel, Topfer, Serna and many other companies. So that's what's going on today. Everyone's trying to get good and done, get as much bread as possible abroad. And I'm not sure that we're going to leave Ukraine without wheat without special control, we're going to have to live for another six months, and today we're going to have to take special control. Volin. There's a reserve company, its mill, there's a purchased bread that's being processed in that mill at the Lutsky KCP stock company and sold every month to farmers in the Volin region, the Polish regions that don't have their own wheat, but every month they're sure they'll come to KCP and buy the necessary amount of flour to bake the bread to the citizens. Now, by all means, the Reserve, the Agrarian Fund, is being forced to give the wheat to the commercial structure of the Serney trader to take it abroad. What will be left of the oxen? Must be no bread! Who thinks so? Today, the main capital in the traders and the retreaders will not be the small farms but the large traders. So I ask you to consider my statement as a request to the government, to the reservation, to the minister who should take control of such situations and not leave any area of Ukraine without a grain reserve for the entire year, because that is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u8	For this is a sin, and the bread of the farmers and of our citizens shall we leave without wheat of the third class, with the refuse that is not for bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u9	Thank you, thank you. Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u10	I'd like to present to Mr. Spak Vasil Fedorovich, Mr. Spak Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u11	Vassil Fedorovich, please. The next one will be Zeno's Skutak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u12	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The question that I want to hear from the parliamentary rostrum has been touching the agrarians for years and it's about mass non-returns to agricultural producers for their products. Farmers, farmers, and private farmers constantly have to seek help, turn to various agencies to get their money from farm subjects who owe them for their donated grain, sugar beet, cattle, and so forth. Court suits and court decisions are often not taken for the benefit of peasants because of the legal conspiracies that are concealed in every other contract made, which is difficult for peasants to recognize. During respectable companies run by prominent businessmen who have been sheltered for years, or at least they are not counted on for agricultural products they have received and consumed. The Hmelnicka District has been working in Ukraine for many years, led by the hero of Ukraine, Ichovacuk, Petro Volodymyrovich. As early as 2006, the agro-company shipped IVK “Agrotsukor” to the Kremenacki and Klubov sugar plants nearly 56,000 tons of sugar beet. So far, the agrofirm has not received more than 9 million dollars. A multi-road combination of non-refundable funds was conducted by the Director-General of AVC Agrotsukor, member of the Hmelnick district council of Levi Vadim Leonidovic. He waved his own scheme, under which Agrotsukor allegedly did not get sugar beet and then refused to sign the act-breeds and pay for the money. During these years, the courts have failed to protect the agrofirm, and the femida has supported Deputy Leiva. And it is a coincidence that today Ukraine has ceased to be one of the world’s leading sugar producers. It's sad and painful to say that because of these businessmen and their patrons, we import sugar, which currently has 15 dollars. A similar illegal action was experienced by Leavis, the Theophilic Sugar Factory, and even the State Reserve, which he heated for 3.5 thousand tons of sugar. Repeated appeals by agricultural producers of the Secretary of the President's Office, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney-General's Office and the courts of the positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u14	In conclusion, today’s agrarian economy needs not only state financial support but also legal aid in all institutions of power. Please consider my application as a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Zinovo Skutak, the right to speak is given to him by his colleague Roman Zvaric. The next one will be the Scybinetsky, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u16	Dear voters! Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The hysteria, which is suppressed by the anti-Ukrainian forces in connection with the assignment of President Viktor Yushchenk of the honorary title “Heroy of Ukraine” to Stepan Banderi, shows only that 50 years later, after the insidious death of the leader of the Ukrainian nation at the hands of the KGB of Bogdan Stashinsky, Bandera remains dangerous to anyone who wishes to bury Ukrainian freedom, Ukrainian independence, Ukrainian idea. In my brief presentation, I do not want to open up the vast work that Stephen Bander has done for Ukraine. But I will stand on just a few facts of his life that will help him to understand better and the reasons that moved him to give himself to the ministry of his Fatherland. The family of priest Andrew Bandera and his wife, Miroslava, were examples of the Ukrainian family, both by moral principles and by the patriotic upbringing of their children. There were thousands of families in Ukraine whose fate is similar. Yet, from the beginning of the occupation of Ukraine, one of the resistance forces led by a younger brother, Stephen Bogdan, was killed in 1942 or 1943. The brothers Alexander, a doctor of political economy, and Vasile, a graduate of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Lviv, were killed in 1942 by Polish overseers Capo at Auschwitz. Andrija Mikhailovich Bandera, Stepan’s father, was killed by Soviet authorities here in Kiev. Sister Oksana and Martha-Marie were arrested and sent to Siberia in 1941 to the Krasnoyar region. The Communist regime of the Soviet Union for decades prevented them from returning to Ukraine. Martha-Marie Bandera died abroad in 1982, and elderly Oksan Bandera returned to her homeland only in 1989 after nearly 50 years of exile. She died on December 24, 2008. Another sister, Volodymira, was in Soviet labor camps from 1946 to 1956. Stephen Bandera himself, from a very early age, defined the main purpose of his life as a struggle for Ukrainian independence. In all nations and in all times, the freedom fighters have always been an example of the nation’s imitations. Time puts everything in its place. For five years, President Yushchenk has revealed to us our story, our heroes, which we can really be proud of. One in modern realities to acknowledge John Mazep, Stephen Bander, Roman Shuhevich, the heroes of the UN-OPA, to condemn Holodomor and point to specific creators in Ukraine, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u17	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u18	We need to have dignity and courage. And Victor Yushchenko showed it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u19	National Deputy Scybinetsky, please. She's giving Andrew School the right to speak. Prepare Matthew's Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Mr. Voting, Honorable People’s Deputies, Honorable Radios and Televisers! Of course, we've all been watching very closely for, as I see it, a fairly important summary, I'm sure it's already President Yushchenk's last press conference. I think we've all been expecting a situation analysis, an analysis of events, and I'm not saying that I was hoping for at least one minute of self-criticism -- not in the style of an active president, but even though some of the analysis is focused on what happened. I only heard one confession. He claimed that the only mistake he made was what he appointed Prime Minister Julius Timoshenko. I want to remember a short story. In five years you can forget, in five years you can't remember, and in five years you can destroy everything that's been built, and unfortunately, it's too bad. So five years ago, I was a member of the faction myself, we were not enough, we were talking about how to go to the election, whether to go with different teams, whether to go with one, whether to support Yuschenk or not. And this discussion was difficult enough. Timoshenko then insisted that a single candidate was needed to win, and then a team would be created. Victory has also taken place at our expense, first of all, I want to stress this. Because when we wanted to back off and back up, then we called for us to stand and move forward. And it's very easy to see who was five years ago and where he is now, who was with Yushchenk, and who was with him now. So, in fact, only those who, apart from shouting, have no argument other than sailing have no opportunity to prove themselves right. And I'm sure time will put everything in place. Time's up, even at this press conference. For me, the most important question asked by one of the journalists was whether she would be privately owned by a Dutchman in Conchi Zaspa. And what was the answer that Victor Yushchenko was given: that “if Yanukovich does not expel me to the station” is the legal basis for leaving this house.” This surprised me, believe me, was a surprise. This surprised me because I believe that the President should be above such trifles and say that “I have enough space to live in, and I leave it to the state.” But that didn't happen, and, unfortunately, it didn't happen now, so it won't happen tomorrow. And that's why history lessons have already been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u21	Valentina Matviev is delegating the right to speak to the National MP, Mikola Kravchenk. Please. Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u22	Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. Unfortunately, this organization has been forgotten since the adoption of the amendments to the Administrative Code. And what is happening today on the road to protection in violation of the driver’s rights is, of course, surprising to the patience of these drivers. First question. My statement, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to begin by asking that the Communist faction still requests that you inform about the fate of the Disability Vehicle Act, which was falsified most likely in the committee; what its fate is and what the consequences are: who forged the law that determined the possibility of placing a car after the death of a disabled person so that they could benefit from family members. The answer is not only to a faction of communists but also to tens, hundreds of thousands of people. As far as the road is concerned today, we are working with the GAI on order today. This is about the fact that today I have been approached by the drivers of the Chercas region, and they have given specific examples of the fact that in this weather, when the drivers carry salt and it rises at a price of up to six bracelets, the police willfully stop the furs, the grains, so that they can't get up on this one, on the bog. And the technology that works works works according to the militia's instructions, and the police take the money for it. I'm going to pass that data on a specific road in the GAI. And I want to tell the drivers that we're going to give it to those who do. But you and I have a much more serious subject with respectable legislators. The point is that we have somehow allowed the GAI department to produce additional entries from drivers through the Cabinet of Ministers. This is true of those coupons, and this is true of the introductions of moped rights. I do not object to the need for rights, but there is a need for legislation in this regard. That is, any change that entails additional withdrawals from the population must go through the legislative body, i.e. through Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u23	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. The next one will be the Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u24	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Dear Head, my fellow Members, today is very concerned about the state of play in 2010 to address the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the provision of medicines to medical facilities that provide assistance to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster, the maintenance of socio-psychological rehabilitation centres for the victims is seven times less than that provided for by Ukraine's law on the state-wide programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2006-2010. This will usually lead to an increase in disease and death among black people. According to recent statistics, only 4 per cent of the victims are healthy and 21 per cent are liquidators. Medical examinations indicate that the number of patients has a tendency to increase. And if you look at the budget that we've already received, in 2010, there's only 4 percent of the citizens who need appropriate treatment. Concern is also due to the fact that in 2010 it is impossible to fully ensure that the legislative measures in radioactively contaminated areas are implemented. Today, in the area of radioactive pollution, there are more than 500 critical population sites in the Zitomirsk, Ravensk, Volinsk, Kyiv, and Chernigiv regions, where the existing radiological situation is maintained at the level achieved with annual action. But without the introduction of appropriate countermeasures, it will worsen considerably. Particularly critical of these settlements are the 22 settlements of the Plains region, with some 24,000 inhabitants. They're about 8,000 children. And the pollution of milk is five to ten times higher than the acceptable standards. The chronic underdevelopment of the State budget in recent years has rendered housing for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster virtually impossible. In Ukraine more than 40,000 families need a solution to the housing problem. Of these, 10,000 are Chernobyl families. In addition, a priority solution is needed to move away from the areas of the 558 families that are radioactively polluted. So, summed up, it is essential to say that, in shaping the State budget for 2010, it is essential to increase funding under the comprehensive health care programme for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, as well as funding for follow-up measures at least at the level of 2000. And it is essential that we provide for expenses for the citizens’ housing program.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u26	It is essential to anticipate the cost of housing for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, even if it is a hundred million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u27	People's Deputy Olijnik, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Is there an oil man? Please National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u28	National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On February 10, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was signed by the President and published by a press release in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine from today's issue. In reviewing the law, I was surprised to note that the text of the law contained some positions that had not been considered in the decision - making process by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was about the adoption of the 2008 law. In particular, Article 75 of the Law provides for decisions that state the decision regarding the appointment of the Supreme Council’s Head by secret ballot. [[Part Five]] The ad hoc procedure provided for in article 50 of this Regulation does not apply. And part of the sixth is that in order to vote in secret, the Head of the Supreme Council needs to vote on two thirds of the national MPs. Such a position is noted when the Head of the Supreme Council is recalled in part 4 of article 77. The committee examined the position taken by the Supreme Council prior to the bill and noted that such changes had not been made to the draft. What is more, I am deeply surprised, with a similar proposal, which seems to have been made by National Deputy Carmazin in view of the fact that, in this case, the procedural norm provided by the Rules for today is blocking the constitutional norm, the norm of material law. In particular, article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taken by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is absolutely unacceptable. An analysis of the transcripts of the meeting of the Supreme Council since 10.02, an analysis of the transcripts since 2006, when similar proposals were considered on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, gives reason to say that in this case we are dealing with a clear falsification of the text of the adopted law. Because the transcript, in particular by the national deputy Carmazin from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, does not indicate the text that should be voted on, nor the articles to which changes should be made. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I demand that you give an order to the regulatory committee to consider the situation and make a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are closed. Please, Carmazine's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin, a party of domesticists. Ladies and gentlemen, at the adoption of the Rules, I said that it was not technical problems and that I gave the text that was now being printed, because I then studied it in a coma. I am convinced that it is only in the case of a quorum and quorum present that this is not 226 but two thirds that we have considered in principle. That's the first question. The second question is, if regulatory issues are now being asked only to raise questions about the collapse of the coalition, as anyone would like, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that the coalition was re-created. So I'm going to remind you of the constitutional rule of non-retroactivity of the law in time. That is, the Law on the Rules that is now in force for those coalitions that will be created late.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! The statement has been completed. With regard to the proposals -- I see everything -- let me finish, dear colleagues -- on the proposals that have been made by the Ukrainian national MPs, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. And about the last performance. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to your acquaintance, and I'm asking my honourable colleagues to stop the political divisions here in the session room. Two amendments were made during the adoption of the law: the national deputy of Ukraine, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. And somehow a respected colleague forgot one correction and pedaled another amendment. And in order to have support in the session room, because the faction wasn't going to vote in favour of the Rules, and it was put to the vote with two amendments. By the way, I have to remind you that everything in the transcript is there. The committee called for the document, all the document services called for what they didn't ask you to do -- it's clear, I need you, listen, sit down. And everything according to the transcript, and according to the Law of Ukraine. I ask the honourable colleagues to stop this conversation. The question is that the Rules must now be enforced as a law. Dear National Deputies! After. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I want you to sit down and work in the workplace again. Dear colleagues! You have a schedule for today. With regard to the organization of work, please, in factions one minute at a time. Please, the faction "Our Ukraine" is there? I see. Is the BUT faction on this, something to do? Let's move on. Is there a Lithuanian Block faction? None. The faction of the Party of Regions, please, who will it be? Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, as we all know, today has entered into force the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council. I categorically disagree with colleagues who claim that this law does not apply to what was created earlier, because we have adopted this law because of certain circumstances, and you know everything, and it does, with the exception of two amendments, repeat the law and the regulation that we have worked before. Both in the Rules and in this Rules there is a rule that a coalition exists when there are signatures of 226 deputies under a coalition treaty. Therefore, I would ask Vladimir Mihajlovich, to bring this rule into line with the Rules as a law, article 61, part I think, if I am not mistaken, of the fourth rule under this article and declare it officially in the Hall. Because the vacchanal that's been forming for the last two years, when we actually don't have a coalition in the hall, we have some kind of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u33	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u34	When we don't have a coalition in the hall, it can't continue to exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u35	The Communist faction, is it? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u36	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I'm going to use the replica first, because here the faction of Communists was mentioned in the first speaker who accuses her of the sins that she has fulfilled the constitutional norm and, along with another majority of the people's deputies, voted on the date of the President's inauguration. Once again, it comes out of the Constitution and you and I, if we obey the laws and the Constitution, are obliged to make similar decisions. And in this context, I support the proposal that we really, let us be guided by the laws, the rules are the law today, whether we want them or not. And so, please, in response to this "weeping" of the first speaker, I also join in on behalf of the faction with the proposal: the Head of the Supreme Council is obliged to announce a list of 226 national MPs who form part of the coalition. That's the first one. And the second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have been looking for answers for more than a month to falsify the law. Talk about someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u38	talk about someone giving Martinyuk an answer. First, Martinyuk received no answer, and secondly, Martinyuk was not interested in the answer. The answer is of interest to the community and to the disabled. Please make a public statement as to who has allowed for falsification of the Law on the Transfer of Cars to Persons with Disabilities free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u40	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr Vladimir Mikhailovich, here, colleagues have tried to interpret the provisions of article 61 of the Rules Act, so I would like to draw attention to the following. First. I agree with National Deputy Karmazin that the law of retroactive force does not exist. And this is about the signatures of the coalition agreement, which is made up of the coalition, this agreement, taking into account the political positions agreed upon by the political positions. That is, article 64 of the Rules is now distributed only to a coalition that may or may not have been created in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for Vladimir Mikhailovich, the issue of the Rules, I have all the transcripts that will be in place when the Rules Act is passed. This shorthand doesn't mean that the two standards I've been talking about have been accepted, and I'm very clear. So I'd like to make an appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u41	Please, committee, study this question. Honorable National MPs. Well, from our Ukraine, please, I'm, uh, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that there is obviously something going on that represents those deputies who took over the Supreme Administrative Court yesterday. I don't understand why the pressure on the court? Pressure on the C.V.C.C., C.V.C.A. capture first. Then an announcement under the pressure of President Yanukovic. Even members of the CEC did not know that they would be assembled at three o’clock to make an announcement. Come on! There's nothing you can do under pressure. It will still become clear and clear to the citizens of Ukraine. Now it's a violation of the law. Open article 58 of the Constitution. I read, I quote literally. “The laws and other legal acts do not have a retroactive effect at a time other than when they soften or invalidate a person’s responsibility.” Period. All of it. That's what I'm telling the regulatory committee. Please read the material part – it's called the Constitution. Next, according to the Constitutional Court’s explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u43	Dear National Deputies! The two problems that occurred, Adam Ivanovich and Mikola Kravchenka, were exchanged. I have once again spoken with the leadership of the Apparatus to give all the MPs the results of the work of the working group that studied the problem and introduced them to all the national MPs. Now about the second question, much more complicated, about the coalition. Dear colleagues! When the coalition formed, we had a problem with the Rules because the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional the Rules of the Supreme Council. And then there was the constitutional norm that the coalition was formed by the MP factions, which should have the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies. And article 83: “In the Supreme Council - I read it - the results of elections based on political reconciliation are formed a coalition of MPs, which consists of the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” At the same time, the Rules of the Supreme Council, which became law, set out in more detail the order and procedure for shaping the cessation of coalition activity. Article 61, paragraph 4, states: “The coalition agreement adds to the list of members of the MPs who formed a coalition with the personal signatures of the national MPs. The lists of members of the MPs are an integral part of the agreement." And you realize that we've had many discussions over the fact that there is no coalition. And you know my position when I speak. Give me 226 signatures, then there'll be another coalition. And while there's no other, it's a coalition. At the same time, the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council entered into force. We have new realities. And I'm going to say right now, I'm going to stand here in person and I'm going to have to do everything we can to make sure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine works and no one takes advantage of the right of temporary dissolution. For in today’s electoral law you well know that nothing will change, that the same faces will be in the Supreme Council, only the spending of state funds will be spent. At the same time, article 68 clearly defines the circumstances surrounding the cessation of coalition activity. Coalition activity ceases if the powers of the Supreme Council are terminated. The other one. The reduction in the number of coalitions to the number of national deputies is smaller than the Constitution. And the third. The coalition’s decision to stop its activity. It is quite obvious that in this case article 66, paragraph 2, can be spoken of if we are already conducting a discussion. So the proposal is one that, I'm sure, with understanding and understanding will be accepted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the coalition, the coalition council, to give the coalition all the documents that support the coalition's activities. And what time does that take? I think we can refer to article 65 to invent a date. [[Your Honor, well, I'm asking you.]] And that's what this is about, if one faction comes out, a ten-day term for either calling it off or not calling it off. So let's think about it this way. Please, Your Honor, in order for us to have further transparency, 10 days -- please give me all the documents. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down, otherwise we'll just go into conflict. Please provide both the Chief of the Supreme Council and the committee with all the documents. If there are no papers, dear colleagues, there will be no papers. Then there will be other realities that we will talk about, namely that we need to form a coalition. I don't want us to start, as you demand today, a countdown of 30 calendar days with all the consequences that come out of it. So let's think about how to organize a job. There are documents, let's have them, then we'll have language in another plane. And one more moment, dear colleagues. Well, I said it right, obviously. Well, come on, I have the right to act under the Rules. And second moment. I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to give a clear list of issues that we have to resolve in view of the fact that the Rules have become law. There are many questions if you read. And one more thing. Please, Your Honor, after the adjournment of our plenary session, take all the symbolism out of the session room. The regulations prohibit other items, posters, flags that do not apply to the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Otherwise, dear colleagues, this will be done by the workers of the apparatus. Let's not turn the Supreme Council into party headquarters, start living by law. [[Applause]] The draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Willlessness is now under review for further punishment. The rapporteur is Minister of Justice of Ukraine Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch. Registration number 0152.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u44	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! And your consideration of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Willlessness for Further Punishment. You know that such agreements are widespread enough, and they are designed to protect their country's citizens if they are condemned under the laws of other jurisdictions in order to punish themselves in their homeland. The agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the transfer of sentenced persons to prison for further punishment was signed in Kiev on June 12, 2009. According to the Criminal Code, in particular its parts of the second article 10, foreigners who have committed and convicted crimes in Ukraine on the basis of this Code may be transferred for punishment for the crime committed to that State whose citizens are, if such transfer is provided for by an international treaty. The purpose of this treaty is to create the legal basis for the transfer of convicted persons to the territory of the State of which they are citizens and to define the appropriate mechanism for the cooperation of the competent authorities of both States in connection with such transfer. The result of the treaty is to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of justice and the social rehabilitation of the condemned. The central authority in Ukraine, in accordance with article 1 of the said treaty, is the body responsible for ensuring the transfer of convicted persons, for whom there is already a sentence, who have gained legal power, is the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I will note that the implementation of the treaty will not involve expenditure from the State Budget, other niches that are budgeted each year in the State Budget for the maintenance of convicted persons in institutions for the execution of sentences. The treaty is subject to ratification in accordance with section “B” of part two of article 9 of the Law “On International Contracts of Ukraine” as regards human rights and citizens, as well as section “E” of part two of article 9 of the Act, since its ratification is directly envisaged by the treaty itself. Honourable national deputies, taking into account the foregoing, are invited to ratify the agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the transfer of persons sentenced to be deprived of their liberty for further punishment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report has been completed. I'd like to ask you a question to the minister. People's deputies' names on the board, please. Vladimir Karpuk, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u46	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, today this is about the number of people convicted on the Ukrainian and Belarusian sides. And the second question. If, for example, there are condemned people who ask for Ukrainian citizenship or who are refugees from the Lukashenko regime, how will the issue then be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u47	As far as your last question is concerned. You know that any citizen who is in the territory of another state may claim to ask for political asylum in that country. And in such cases, this citizen is subject to legislation and rules on granting political asylum as defined by national jurisdiction. Thus, it is not the case that the act of law will apply to these persons, since it is the persons who are convicted of judgment and who have gained legal power. Again, I would like to stress that in this case, we are members of the European Convention on Human Rights, the protection of human rights, which gives guarantees to citizens who are asking for political asylum, but at the same time for which extradition is requested. As far as the number of such citizens is concerned. It changes, it's not permanent. Today we're talking about the number of citizens in between.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u48	Andrew Portnov, Liuliya Timoshenko Faction. There's no Portnova? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Minister, according to article 4 of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the transfer of persons sentenced to imprisonment, one condition for the transfer of the sentenced person is the written consent of the convicted person. And if there is no such written agreement, and all the other circumstances fall within the scope of the treaty, how will we do so: simply it is not transferred there, if there is no such agreement, to this person? Well, he doesn't want to, he says, "I'm afraid there's not that regime." You know, they're showing conflicts with Poland right now, they're there with others, they're showing conditions that aren't, say, what we have. We are believed to be more lenient in punishment than in Belarus. Man says: “I don’t want to be handed over.” What are our actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. The objective of the treaty is to ensure the protection of the rights of citizens, that is to create conditions for them when they want to be punished in their homeland, that is, in the country of which they are citizens. And by no means does article 4 of the contract you are talking about provide for such consent as a mandatory condition. This means that this rule can only be applied when a person’s desire is to be punished in his or her homeland. In the absence of such a desire, this is not possible, and a person may accordingly be punished in the jurisdiction where he was sentenced for committing a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u51	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u52	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, our committee has fully upheld this law and I also ask my colleagues to vote for it. And I only have one technical question for you. The volunteering factor regarding the position of the prisoner here is clear, and it is clearly stated. Please find another point: If the convicted person has, in principle, the right to take advantage of this agreement and to be punished in Belarus, he wrote this statement, he wrote a complaint, but the Ukrainian side still has some questions to follow up on, he has a position that he needs to be made for purpose. It may not yet be defined by specific investigation procedures, but it may remain in Ukrainian territory because of suspicion, such as the conduct, perhaps other evidence, but not in the course of procedural action. What are the reasons for the Ukrainian side to refuse to hand over this condemned party to Belarus? What are the possibilities, in the Ukrainian side, for States to stop this trial with regard to a convicted person who has expressed a desire to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u53	Thank you. The only reason. When a person may be denied a country’s conviction regarding his transfer to his homeland for punishment, only criminal proceedings may be instituted, not in connection with the crime he is convicted of. In this case, there will be an agreement between the two countries on mutual assistance in criminal matters, which gives the Attorney General's Office the right of one party and the other party to ensure that the necessary criminal prosecution procedures are carried out in the interests of the investigation. If this is the case in connection with a criminal offence and under an international treaty, such a transfer may be suspended at the time of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u54	Thank you. All questions are now exhausted. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u55	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! There was a serious discussion, and I would like to start a report by a committee from a legal and humanitarian precedent. A year ago, I was approached by the village council and by the family of a convicted man in Belarus. A man who kidnapped a neighbor and went hunting a cabana with ten children was arrested in the territory of Belarus. [[He found himself there, not knowing he had crossed the border.]] I got three years of strict cross-border regime with arms across the border. The family was asked to be sent for punishment against Ukraine, which was refused. I turned to the President of this country as a national deputy, head of the committee and vice-president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, and it was a miracle that he released this unserious citizen from prison for humanitarian reasons, taking into account that ten children have no one to feed. This incident shows that there is no agreement on the transfer of persons sentenced to imprisonment. This is a failure, a vacuum. Thus, the committee, as Czarnovill’s colleague has said, has almost unanimously supported and made a recommendation: recommend that the Supreme Council ratify this law. No comments, objections, or other suggestions were received from the committees. The adoption of this law and its implementation will not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office believes that the ratification of the treaty will be in the national interest of Ukraine and, above all, the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Please support the recommendation decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! If you have any questions for the chairman of the committee, please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Lies down Grigorovich, everyone understands, thank you, there are no wishes. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion, the factions, and then the national deputies. May I have the names of the people's deputies? There are no speakers from the faction, from the national MPs, Taras Cnerville, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I'm not going to use all three minutes of time, I'm just going to say that this agreement is completely into norms and European law, and it's into democratic procedures. This is the case, and we are complementing our legislation as a result of these agreements with absolutely adequate standards, so that there is a possibility of adapting the people of the condemned, so that they can be punished in their countries where there is a closer family, where there is a closer influence that will help them to adapt socially and remove the threat that those people may later become radical criminals. I'm asking you to support the ratification of that agreement, and our committee has considered it, unanimously supported it, and all the other committees share the same support. This is one of those agreements where there are absolutely no warnings. So thank you for your attention, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote because the discussion is over. A motion for the adoption of Ukraine's draft law is put to the vote as a law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the transfer of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for further punishment. [[Registration number 0152]] Please vote. [[11:08:22]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on land auctions has been announced. [[Registration number 3666]] The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Kolinić Vladimir Vasilovic, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bebelzenko Valeriy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u59	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on Land auctions has been prepared in accordance with article 137 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Today, the issue of auctions remains unresolved, despite the changes in article 127, 138, 134 of the Ukrainian Land Code. The Civil Code also does not give or regulate the conduct of auctions. Local government administrations and local authorities have not been given a legislative base on these issues to date. At present, there are differences in approaches to start-up and price formation, the criteria for determining the winners, the role of specialized organizations, and the organizers of trades. In the absence of a land auction law, there is no licensing activity. This situation requires the adoption of a legal and regulatory act which would allow for a transparent and effective implementation of the land and rent rights at their actual cost. The purpose of the draft Law on Land auctions is to introduce a transparent mechanism of preparation, conduct of land auctions, regulatory regulation and organization of auction activities. The main positions that are enshrined in the draft law are: first, the introduction of basic terms for land trade, the establishment of auction principles, land auctions, the definition of criteria for establishing a list of land or lease rights for auction sales. When establishing a list of auctioned land, it is prohibited to include land designated for construction without taking into account the city’s construction grounds. The draft law provides for the obligation to inform the public through the media. The legislative establishment of clear trade organisers in land preparation, rental rights, sale rights and the contractor for the preparation and conduct of transparent trades has been written. The preparation of the auctioned lotteries is also more specific; it lasts no more than four months. In the process of preparing the lotteries for auction sale, it is important to set a starting price that cannot be less than the price determined by an expert land valuation. The auction is conducted by the contractor on the basis of a contract with the organizer. A series of auction participants are also identified according to the Ukrainian Code of Land, and documents are made available to them. They have the right to acquire property or lease land: Ukrainian citizens, foreign citizens and stateless persons, Ukrainian legal persons and foreign legal persons who have the right to acquire land. In doing so, separate articles are designed to ensure the transparency, transparency, and order of the auction. The procedure for conducting an auction that ends with the signing of a contract of sale determines the legal procedures for settling disputes that may take place as a result of the contract. All disputes, differences, and auction procedures are largely resolved by judicial decisions. The procedure for determining an auction such that it did not take place, the cancellation of the auction results determines it not to be valid and the conduct of the complaint in order which gives articles 15-16. That is, the auction is determined by what did not happen, in the absence of a participant, for the presence of only one participant, when none of the participants offered any higher questions than the start-up and a number of other questions. The definition of clear criteria for the financing of auctions, auctions are made at the expense of the organizer and the registration fees of his participants. In the event of a lack of funds from the organizer, he has the right to engage in credit. Contracts between the organizer and the contractor may provide for the possibility of financing an auction at the expense of the contractor, entering into a contract for the sale of land or leases at the end of the auction determines the duration of the lease on the purchased lot, or the contract for the sale. The winner’s organizer is obliged to determine these issues within 10 banking days of the end of the deadline. The period of payment may be extended by the organizer’s consent for no more than 30 days, provided that the winner pays no less than 50 percent, is also determined by legislation. For the purpose of organizing the sale of land not for agricultural purposes at auctions, but also for the purchase of land, the final provisions of the bill provide for amendments to the Ukraine Land Code, the Ukraine Land Rental Act on the distinction between the rules relating to sales, superficie and emphysics in the land of state and municipal property. In contrast to the rules on the need to pay the advance fee, pay the land price. According to the provisions of part eight of article 128 of the Ukraine’s Land Code, the financing of the land area’s expert monetary valuation is made on the basis of an advance made by the buyer. However, budget legislation does not provide for funding expenditure for the above-mentioned costs. This brings diversity to the legislative field. As regards the abolition of the ban on land leases of state and municipal property, this leads to the failure of land users to obtain cheap loans. Well, the question of Euro-2012, this is also further defined. The bill concludes with amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code, which states that forests for non-forestry purposes are only removed through the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine. Given what has been defined, and that the project has been reconciled, considered on the Supreme Council's profile committee, has a conclusion that is practically positive for the conclusion of scientific and expert management, please support the adoption of the project on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u60	Thank you. Please sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u61	Let me pass on the word of Konovaluku Valeri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, I would like to address a number of questions. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council has repeatedly extended the moratorium on land sales. How much do you estimate the shadow volume of land traffic in Ukraine? That's the first question. And what has prevented Ukraine from making sufficient income in terms of and attracting investment and income to the State from selling land in such a way as to ensure that we completely avoid all the abuses and violations that occurred during those years, as promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u63	Thank you. As for the shadow traffic in land areas, I can say that all the land that is being sold today certainly increases by three or five times if they went through an auction. I think that this Act on conducting auctions would, to some extent, ensure that land is actually sold at the price that is for this land. Well, it's about the mechanism. I must say that over the past four years, article 137 and other articles 124, 138 have been amended four times. But so there was the process itself, that the order of auctions happened according to the law. The Minister's office has made decisions three times, as you know, but so far it's not legal and it's not settled. Of course the commodity exchange, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u64	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u65	They cannot exercise their right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u66	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! This law, which we call land auctions, is strangely changing the Ukrainian Code of Land, but what's interesting is the Civil Code. I've seen these changes. You know, in order to adopt the Civil Code, we sent him to international institutions and so on. Now, I'm looking at it as a spatula, and they just crawl into a time machine, because the Civil Code is a very thin thing. Therefore, we did not adopt the Law on the Market of the Earth. Do you think it's possible to rule out any changes to the Civil Code and the Earth Code now, because the title of the law is a little different. Thank you for asking. Indeed, the issue of the Civil Code is that the Civil Code has also identified land as an object of immovable property. In this regard, suggestions were made for changes. I agree that on second reading, the issue can be studied more deeply and appropriate changes to the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u68	Gerasimczuk Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u69	As we know, in today’s land law, the issue of land transfer to foreign legal persons requires agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers. We all know it's a fairly long procedure. How is this matter resolved in the bill, and how does it relate to the involvement of foreign investments in Euro - 2012 objects?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u70	I thank you for asking. Indeed, the question and article 82 of the Code of Land states in the fourth and second paragraphs that the arrangement for the granting of land or the sale of land for foreign legal persons is passed through the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the fact that the conduct of auctions, as it were, gives the right of a foreign legal person to do so. So far, I think we've been doing a little bit of writing down this position in the Ukrainian Earth Code. Perhaps if the land is already being auctioned, there should be a definition, or they have the right to participate in foreign legal persons, or they do not. Thank you for your observation. This question can be considered in greater depth in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u71	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Party of regions, Landik. Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, do you not think that this draft Law on auctions is already too late, may even be very late introduced into the Supreme Council Hall. When Julia Vladimirovna came to the Cabinet of Ministers two years ago and banned land from being leased before stopping the total extradition of land, and the investment activity in the country ceased, the people went to hell in agreement, the first sessions were held but did not receive land. And now, by the time the crisis came, which she said would not reach the door, but have already entered, and some of these provisions of the law are probably not needed, and some land is not something to be auctioned, but a power to give to people. That is why I believe that this law has already been delayed and that we must make a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u73	I thank you for asking. But to this day we again do not give the right to councils or administrations to sell land for non-agricultural purposes and to rent. So this bill is probably necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u74	Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u75	Karpuk, “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, there is no doubt that this bill regulating land relations through land auctions is necessary. But we know when the Cabinet of Ministers decreed, there were a lot of questions. In particular, this law excludes the mechanism of competitive selection when a social package is offered somewhere. There have been times when, in order to show the government a good price for the sale of land from the auction, the city’s budget was used to conduct sewage, water supply, infrastructure, and the figures, particularly that a good amount was received for the land auction. Therefore, the issue cannot really be settled solely through land auctions, for there will be many questions about providing land for the construction of necessary cultural facilities, health care, education, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. As you've seen, in article 8, 12 of this bill, we've determined that those land areas that are not auctioned are not auctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u77	Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u78	Thank you. Kirilchuk, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Indeed, the question is important, and as coauthor of the Codex earth, which was adopted in its own time, I support. The earth code did not provide for a whole range of suggestions that exist today. In particular, it is advantageous because it increases the income of local budgets very much. And the second is that it eliminates all camaraderie, marriage, and shadow conspiracies, because it happens transparently. But there is no such thing as an organizer as a government contractor as a licensee. So who decides these questions because of your suggestions in the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u79	I thank you for asking. Indeed, the Earth Code refers to 137 articles that determine the order of auctions, land trades, in accordance with the law. We took the land auction process from auctions and stock markets that are being held today. There is also a lecturer, there is an organizer, there is a performer, and there are other actors who are taking part in this market. The organizer of the market is the one who owns or manages the land. The bill defines it as a council or an administration. The operator of the land trade is a licensed person, a legal person, a licence to conduct land auctions and conduct them in accordance with legislation. The question about the award.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u80	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u81	The licenses are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, as they are now. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u82	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u83	Vladimir Vasilovich, I have a specific question. Please tell me. Vladimir Vasilovich, I have a specific question for you. Well, unfortunately, we never see on the land committee where the committee head is, why he's not walking, because that's a fundamental question. And you know that privatization of the land or the order of the earth's market is very important issues that stand in the order of the day. In this regard, I have a question. I understand that the committee you represent has prepared this law. So, please tell me, why does the law that you set out at your same initiative on the earth’s market reflect more than 22 articles of this law? So that's the impression that they took part of the Land Market Act, my impression, and they rewrote it into a new law -- and you want to take the land market apart from it. That doesn't solve the question. Please explain why the committee has taken such a position and why you are initiating a partial solution to the issue rather than in the Land Market Act complex?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. You know that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a draft Land Market Act. Among other things, two other draft laws were introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies. These draft laws were discussed at the Supreme Council, but none of them obtained a suitable number of votes for its adoption. The issue of auctioning was indeed perhaps settled in the Land Market Act, and that was what it meant. But when we can't make auctions for almost four years, it was necessary to adopt a framework law that would, as it were, allow only land auctions, give us the right to do so. We're almost every year losing about 5 billion dollars because we don't have auctions and we don't sell land at auctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Vasilovich. Correspondence from the committee – Bebazenko Valeriy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u86	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Agaric Politics and Land Relations at its meeting on May 12, last year, reviewed the bill and suggested that it should be rejected and that auctions should be settled in the land market law. More than nine months later, Parliament did not consider the land market bill. Given that the issue of the introduction of a land market in Ukraine is now a political issue, the chance to adopt these bills is highly questionable. At the same time, Ukraine’s land market is not in place and the imbalance in land trade has led to a large number of local self-governance bodies at the legal level, which is in direct contravention of article 137 of the Ukraine’s Land Code. Moreover, the existence of a number of problems of a general nature, the lack of regulation of certain laws, the uncertainty of the procedure does not allow for the conduct of land auctions on a regular basis today, as evidenced by the numerous appeals made to the committee. Nor can it be ignored that in many cities the initiative to sell land on competitive grounds is faced with a clear, or hidden, resistance. Obviously, some forces are not interested in an open and transparent land distribution mechanism. The bill submitted by the government has numerous shortcomings and does not fully address the issue of land auctions. The principles of auctions, such as the holding of a re auction, the holding of an auction with the possibility of lowering the price, the order in which the auction results were produced by its organizer, the order in which the price was paid and the contract was terminated in the event of failure to perform the obligation to pay the price, the order in which the land was transferred to the auction winner, the responsibility for the failure of the auctioned land area, the charges against contracts made in breach of the preparation and auction procedure, the responsibility of the auctioneer to the persons whose rights had been violated. This list is far from exhaustive. Despite significant shortcomings in the bill, the committee reviewed 02.12 again and believes that in this situation it is more appropriate for the committee and legislators to remove them in the process of preparing for consideration in the second reading. Although I think it should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy are proposing to adopt a bill as a basis. In view of this, the committee proposes a draft Law on land auctions, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u87	Let's sign up for a question to the head of the subcommittee. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u88	Is that for a speech or a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, there is a Rules. I made it clear that we're going to sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur, the head of a subcommittee. Your question, please. No questions asked. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u90	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u91	No question. Gerasimczuk Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u92	My dear reporter, I wanted to ask you if this bill has resolved the issue of the removal of land belonging to the State. This is also a very topical issue now, given that both the military towns and the areas where the factories were located have now lost their functional function and must be resolved in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u93	This question that you're asking is not the basis of this bill, it's a completely different bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u94	Smythuch Grigori Evdzimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u95	Smittouch, Party of Regions. Valery Fedorovich! We work with you on the same committee, and I know you as an experienced expert. Tell me, please, for your part, a bill has been submitted to the Supreme Council, which is not yet scheduled for the day, but it is in the Supreme Council, about the market for land. In this bill, where an entire group of deputies joined in, including the issues of auction issues in the land market. Yeah? Please tell me whether it would be advisable for the Supreme Council to adopt one law that governs the earth and, including, the auction issue. How to get rid of the question that the State Committee is proposing today on land issues. Your professional point is what should the Supreme Council do, and what should be the position of the national deputies? What will be better for the country and for our citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. What I'm saying is that a bill submitted by the people's deputies on the land market fully reveals the concept of conducting land auctions. And best written, all the experts supported this bill and supported the order laid down in this bill, how land auctions take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u97	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u98	Thank you, Kirilchuk. It's the Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter! You're asked whether it's important to introduce all of this into the same law. The Earth Code needs to be adopted by about 20 laws, and this law is essential in order to make land trade. I'm interested in how the Earth Code prohibits both legal and physical persons from being aliens, and in that you miss foreigners. What do you mean, right or wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. According to the committee and experts, we believe that foreigners cannot be allowed to make auctions and, in general, to be owned by foreign citizens, by natural persons and by legal persons, this is unacceptable at this stage of our country's development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, in all political performances everywhere, it can be heard that the god of Ukraine has given the very best lands and indeed so. The best black people we have in Ukraine, the best lands under our cities in Ukraine, but you may agree with me that without the agricultural treatment of the land, such a careless attitude as we have nowhere. All over the world, at least the earth has three functions, it's food security, it's job creation, it's infrastructure, it's government budget filling. Too bad we don't have a full function of the earth. Food security, we export sunflower, oil, grain, instead of importing food, we import about 500,000 tons of meat into Ukraine, we now import milk, dairy, oil. The earth today does not create jobs because large companies come in, take land, reduce jobs. And most importantly, the earth is filling the budget today. When speaking about agricultural lands, it is very good that the Cabinet of Ministers simply banned the distribution of land and determined that it was only auctioned. Until now, however, the auctioning mechanism has not been developed. I'll give you an example, just in Cherkishka, about 30,000 lands -- imagine, this is the area of one area -- today's uncontracted leases, because it's not defined how the auction is going to go through. The district budget loses at least 20 million dollars, and so, practically, in most areas. The city of Cherkasi. Large ranges, military units, about 500 acres [500 ha] of land, which today is incomprehensible in how it is used in mysterious ways. Today, the land can be taken by those who are closer to the city’s head, the village head, or the deputy. It is virtually impossible for a simple man to come and pick up the earth today. One reason is that there is no mechanism today. I fully agree with my colleague Karmazin that the bill is imperfect. Today, he intervenes or breaks the Civil Code, the Codex of the Earth. I agree, there are many problems with the law that determines the legal status of the Armed Forces. The law needs to be worked out. But together with, if we want the budget to be filled, so that there's a clear mechanism for getting land in a lease, something owned, I mean, non-agricultural lands -- there has to be law. Therefore, considerate colleagues, considering that the law is imperfect, let us vote in the first reading. For the second reading, we will have the opportunity to apply, to make our proposals, to finally get Ukraine a law that regulates some of the problematic land issues. The Lithuanian Bloc supports this bill in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u102	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Although I work with Tereshuk on a committee, I have a personal opinion that this law cannot be passed. And by the way, on the committee that was being considered, on our committee of profile, we decided not to uphold this law, but to return it to work or to reject it, the same thing. I want to remind everyone that the government, and I don't share that the State Committee on Land Affairs, by the way, we've never seen a committee head before. Although the fundamental issue is very relevant today, there are a lot of fundamental issues, well, in this case you know that the Supreme Council adopted a moratorium on selling land before the new year, accepted. And by motivating one question, because there are no two fundamental basic laws. And somehow the committee that has all these possibilities does not, through a government bill, file these two basic documents. Why doesn't he? Because it's not convenient. Why isn't it convenient? Or are they unable to prepare him? Then we have to say that we can't prepare the basic documents. I mean the market for government cadastre and market, the Land Market Act. That's the first question. The second question. Please tell me that the government is passing the Land Market Act a year ago and this law reflects all the provisions of this Law that we are currently considering on land auctions. What's the logic, say, to rip out one part that doesn't solve the question fundamentally. It creates additional problems because it contradicts a number of laws, it gives grounds in court to charge these actions, and it brings chaos into these matters. So the question is, what, are we running out of time or are we in a hurry? Or motivated by something that needs to be resolved. How do you decide? There the whole organization stands, which should address three issues of land-based issues and they will all take their place. You also admit that today, by the committee, our committee has been reviewed and introduced by the Supreme Council, a law that is supported by most of the national deputies who are members of the profiling committee, it is relative to the market for land. And this law is more or less objectively and more comprehensively reflected in all matters relating to both the market and the earth’s auction. So I would count it this way, I don't know how the Conciliation Council would have to ask the Law, in my opinion, 2143-1 national deputies, consider it as complex issues, and then, if it wasn't enough, go back to the questions that partially only solve these issues. Why is that not the case? Who's against logic? I don't know, I don't personally support that point of view. And so I'm proposing to the people's deputies today to reject this bill and to go back and put on the next few days, on the next plenary Sunday, Bill 2143-1, to consider it at the first reading, and in the process of further processing, to make those amendments that might arise, including by submitting a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u104	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear friends, the land under the Constitution is the main national wealth under the special protection of the State. This is article 14 of the Constitution. As it is with us, we see it with you. When you're on any road, you see a sales announcement and a mobile phone, call me, I'm on the phone. I've already heard from this rostrum and the price of a hundred lands and post-crisis prices. But it has happened that the earth continues to be destroyed and the earth’s disturbance, as far as the earth’s rotation is concerned, is a colossal shadow market. We are now proposing a bill called “On land auctions”. This actually happened after you and I didn't pass the land market law in this room. We've been sent to the finish line. What was to be done? Obviously, we should have done that law and passed it, which should have been part of that law. But we didn't. Well, we didn't, let's get out of what we didn't do. I agree with the logic of the authors that we should have something, I understand. Because there's a lot of loss going on in the first place. But I would like to use this rostrum to agree with my colleague Smitsch only without the negative that you just said. Since this is not necessary, the law must be created. Let's create. You can only create on the positive. And on the positive side, I'd like to take it as a proposal from my colleague Tereshuk, who obviously understands that it's only a fraction of the manny part of this law that we've just told you about the land market. Obviously, there should be a section on land competitions, not just land auctions. Obviously, there must be a lot of things going on, including those bills that you just talked about. But we cannot discuss those bills that are being introduced there today, which are being considered on the committees, not on the Supreme Council. We can only talk about this law. What is our solution? It's small. Either knock it down and have nothing at all, or accept it in the first reading, but realize that maybe in the second reading he won't have to accept it at all, because we're going to adopt the Land Market Act, the normal law, I mean. That's why I have an offer. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I ask you to give instructions on speeding up the review of the Land Market Act once. And the second. I ask all the MPs to accept this bill in the first reading and as a chapter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u106	Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u107	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine! ” Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We did not notice in the political battalions when a sad date passed this year, in March 20 years when land reform began in Ukraine. The former Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR in March 1990 adopted a decision of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR on land reform in Ukraine. And for 20 years now, land reform has been under way in Ukraine. All the problems, all the troubles that we have in the village are related to the fact that these 20 years of imperfection, incompetence and imperfection in this reform have led to the fact that we have a destroyed Ukrainian village. We have zero agricultural production today. We have a social sphere in Ukraine today, and today we have the results of how the Ukraine has undergone land reform in these 20 years. Now it's about the substance of the bill. You know, there's a paradox. If you speak for the bill itself, in principle, it's not bad. But the problem is that this bill, which was passed by the government, is simply, if you say so in non-parliamentary, deleted from the great land market bill. And so today, instead of being comprehensive about solving such an important problem as the land market, here I'm talking about the agricultural and non-agricultural market, today the government is offering us auctions to conduct non-agricultural land. And so, speaking of the bill, he could in principle be supported. But given that the adoption of this bill will not solve the most fundamental, global problem just as the end of the land reform, the introduction of a full legal and quality land market, I think this bill needs to be rejected today. And we'll have our room here in no time. To pass three bills: 2143, 2143-1 and 2143-2, the essence of which is that the market in Ukraine needs to be introduced. Thank you for your attention. And so I propose that all who vote now send this bill to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u108	After Paul Petrovich hands over the right to speak to Smithu Grigori Eudomimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u109	Thank you. I had to take another word for it because I couldn't prove it. And I disagree with Mr. Carmazin's point of view. Well, Mr. Carmazin, you're systematically approaching legislation, you're systematically analyzing all laws. You'll agree with me that there's a law, it's passed by a committee approved by a committee that covers all the issues of this subject matter of this law. So why should we today adopt a law that would contradict what we will be adopting tomorrow? I don't understand this logic. And one more question I don't understand. I don't understand why in chaos we're asking ourselves why we're trying to break the individual laws that are going to pass. Let me give you a sense of why this is happening. Because no one is comfortable, including a government-owned committee on land issues, so to speak, so to speak, in Ukraine there is a form of control over the entire market relationship process. Because today the question is whether there will be a large economic segment of the earth’s market tomorrow. And these are the basic costs of both the state and the citizens and those who want to work in this market. I'd understand that if the committee couldn't prepare the documents, let them retire, and there we have to put professional people who will completely resolve the issues, not from year to year carry them and say that we didn't prepare, that we don't have, that we didn't get there. How long can it take, how long can it take? The cabinets, the ministers, the ministers, the secretaries, the premises and everything else, it's all there. Sit down and make a complex program. And one last question. I'd like to, and I'd like to think so. It would be appropriate in this difficult economic situation if we went to the market for land or were ready to go to the market for land, to make an offer that the State needed an agrarian bank. The state should be the main player in the redemption of the land in those marshes, grandparents and so forth who live in the village and cannot process, and they would be willing to sell, they should be helped. But the state has to be the main buyer, and the state has to have specific transitional prices fixed for at least 50 years. By buying land back into the state fund, the state would be able to provide a future generation for the birth of our children, young generations, following generations, to have the right and to have the opportunity to realize that right. What, then, if we distribute the entire agrarian land, and what about the Constitution, the children born today in the village, will it ensure that the issue is met? No, it's not. Who should provide? State. So the state has to make a state bank, the state has to buy up land, and the money has to run into the mechanism. And I think that the new government and the new president should make this question number one for our sector. Because a third of our rural population is waiting for this question. And they deserve to be able and sold, but the state has to provide a future generation. That's why I'm calling you. to what I said: I do not vote in favour of this law, but it is necessary to commit a committee or change them entirely to all the officials who are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u110	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich. None. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, perhaps the most difficult problem today in the legislative field is to develop honest and conscientious land legislation. Although the earth’s codex has been laundered today, it is the only one that is holding back today to some extent the various kinds of machination mechanism that is being set in motion with a view to arranging the soil’s debris more quickly. The Law that is being proposed today, although to some extent it is taking a step toward resolving the land rental issue. Today, the land market is not at all an issue in this land, the land market in particular an agricultural destination. Non-agricultural, please. And three things have to be done in the agricultural destination market: first, do an absolute audit or what do you call it, check where the land and whose hands are in Ukraine? Based on what documents? The second is to create a state-owned land bank, a land, not an agrarian, which should be the main operator, a player in the future market, if it is, the land. And on behalf of the State, just do these acts so that there will be no injustice so that no one will be deceived. And the third moment. To date, we have to rent the land. I agree with Sergey Tereshuk, who said that in Ukraine today, a lot of land is not leased to anyone. Someone's exploiting it, someone's using it. There's 15 percent of the land that's not needed, there's no one to give back. People died a long time ago. And someone's using it. In fact, this land is the property of the State. So to fill in the budget and order with the lease of land, because the controlling authorities come to people to order them: “Why don’t you pay taxes?” You go to pay – you can’t pay because there is no lease agreement, because there is no mechanism to conduct the auction of the district council, the lease administration. That's why this law is the first step. And right, it needs to be accepted in the first reading, to create a good team that refines this law, will prepare it for the second reading. Because it's about the Market Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u112	Thank you. The discussion is over. The replica. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken a line to inform you that I work for the Committee on Justice, not the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. And that means that the Land Market Act should still be offered by members of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Well, as a systemist, I gave him an estimate that it was just a chapter. And I propose the leadership now, Alexander Volodymyrovich, as presiding officer, to issue an order for Bills 2343, 2343-1, Tier 2, to be raised, and prepared for consideration at the next plenary session. At the same time, I don't want any law enforcement work to wear off. So if we've already spent time with you, we have to spend time productively. It means to pass the law. And I agree with what we need to do with land inventory, and we're going to report this. [[about what Catherine Vaszczuk said]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u114	Vladimir Vasilovich, is there a need in the closing word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u115	I thank everyone for the suggestions made, thank you for the fact that, indeed, the Supreme Council is giving very great attention to land relations and my request for today to vote on the draft law as a basis. Why? Because of article 137 of the Code of Earth, it says just why a framework law should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u116	Draft Law 3666 “On land auctions” deals with voting, please define yourself on the basis. [[12:00:04]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u117	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act, registration number 4368, is being announced for consideration. According to Roman Volodymyrovich Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u118	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Personal Agriculture", registration number 4368, developed by me and my colleagues from the Ukrainian National Deputies Teretschuk Sergey Mikolajovich and Schlemk Dmitr Vasilovich, registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 April 2009. Before I go to the substance of the bill, I want to give a brief summary of the problem, the history of the problem, the history of the issue. As you recall, in December 2008, there was a rule of law that members of private agriculture could be citizens who owned up to two hectares [2 ha] of agricultural land. And they were considered busy when the calculated monthly income per member of a private farm was equal to or greater than the minimum wage. This income was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers and was established by the appropriate district administration. For example. For the Lviv region, 2006-2008, this amount of income was set at 120-150 dollars, which is usually very small, below the minimum wage set for this period. And so it's all over Ukraine. And according to all those considered to be members of the OSH, they were considered unoccupied, unemployed. I want to remind you that in Ukraine, according to the farm books run by local authorities, these farms are about 4.8 million citizens, heads of private agriculture. And that's about 10 or 11 million citizens. Clearly, these laws did not really explain the problem of employment. And let's tell the truth, so let's say dark unemployment has been set up, because some of our farmers, some of our citizens have been busy seasonally, either in agriculture, or they've been working seasonally on other farms, or they've had income. But then what happened? Remember, last December, in December, more faithfully 2008, the government passed a large bill concerning measures to combat the economic crisis, and on December 25, we adopted an appropriate bill, and on January 13, 2009, it was signed by the President. The point was that the man who owned two acres [2 ha] of land was already considered to be busy. And so a million of our peasants, millions of communities were deprived of social assistance. I want to say that today's legislation is so regulated that many kinds of social assistance, including aid to the underprivileged, child support, subsidies, and specific leave are tied to whether a person is considered busy or not. And so millions of our citizens were deprived of the social assistance of our citizens. As you recall, our colleagues in this room registered about a dozen drafts aimed at resolving the problem. For one reason or another they were not accepted here in our Hall, then the President vetoed, and we lacked votes, and in principle there was a problem until its government settled. The government had taken a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, and to some extent the matter had been settled. Still, members of the group were more loyal to those who owned two acres [2 ha] of land and worked for at least six months, to some extent settled, but still millions of our villagers were deprived of social assistance from the State. I want to say what a negative of this problem was, and the whole thing is that it was tied to the size of the land. Because if you know, for example, these are two hectares of land in the southern, eastern, central areas, some of the farms were thus about 15-20 hectares of land. This is only for a private farm, plus a pie of land and the size of the family’s property could range from 50 to 100 acres [50 to 100 ha]. Accordingly, for example, in my area of Ivano-Frankiv, if you build all this land, the size could not exceed 2-2.5 hectares of land, but it was all bound to the size of the land. My colleagues and I came along in principle, and another principle suggested that we define the employment of OSH members. Now I just want to highlight the features of our bill. Our bill defines the status of property used for the management of the private agriculture, the specific activities of the members of the private agriculture, the rights and duties of the members of the EAGF, the arrangements for determining the employment of the mandatory public pension and social insurance of the members of the EAGF, the arrangements for the provision of state support to the individual agricultural holdings, the arrangements for the accounting and reporting of the individual agricultural holdings. The most important thing that is enshrined in this bill is that we have made a departure from the attachment to the possession of land, which today is the criterion for determining individuals who refer to members of private farming. Instead, our bill foresees that only those who have the opportunity to implement their products — that is, to receive money or to pursue green tourism — will be registered. Such registered members will not be considered enterprises, but they will pay taxes from which they will go to the local budget, to the Pension Fund, and to the Social Insurance Fund. I mean, they're going to be counted for insurance. In view of the continuation of pension reform, this is very important for both the OSH and the state. Also, registered OSH members, already registered, will be provided with State support in reality. Because today, in the absence of the calculation and reporting of the OSH members, it is impossible to provide this state support. I want to say that, in principle, our bill definitely doesn't solve all the problems. But his great appeal is that, for the first time, we have taken such an important approach as to separate ourselves from the size of the land. After all, we are well aware that today, for example, there is a family in the village that has, let us assume that there are 15-20 percent of the land. But he has a van, he has a tractor, he has a car, he provides services. And according to this money he can feed himself and his family for a year, he is a young man. But he knows that sometimes the time will come when we have to retire -- today he can voluntarily register with the appropriate rural council to pay this only agricultural tax. And then when he retires, he knows that there's a minimum of one in that fund. I know there are claims made by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, that before the introduction of a new tax, which is the size of our tax. But I think all of these questions can be discussed before the second reading. And now this bill can be adopted as a basis. I'd just like to point out one thing, I'm sorry it's being considered separately. The idea was that, along with the Personal Agriculture Act, the Single Tax Act should be considered in the complex. And these two bills would actually, in our opinion, decide, if not entirely, at least partially the problem of our farmers' employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u119	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u120	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I am very grateful that you have introduced this bill and are trying to resolve the issues that we discussed over the past year. And I thank you for your support. But Roman, I don't think that the 8th article is valid after all, as it's written in your own law. Because in today's agricultural situation, we would have to write exactly what is in the busy population and the calculated monthly income per family member should be equal to or greater than the minimum wage. That's why we're leaving. We know what we're going to do, what we're going to do, and if it's going to work, it's going to have this revenue, but you and I both firmly believe that millions of those who live there don't have that income and that kind of income can't be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u121	Mr. Sergei, thank you for your question. In fact, I deliberately understand that if we even take the perfect thing, this bill becomes law and will be adopted, firstly psychologically our agriculture is not ready for it, and I understand that it takes a few more years to work fully. But aside from the psychologically unprepared agriculture, no one can actually count in the village the real income that should be. And so, given this, I think that your proposal, for a transitional period, is that an old rule of law, that every district administration in a particular region will be based on a member of a private agricultural income that should be at least at least at minimum wage level, or higher, I think in transitional positions this rule could be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u122	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u123	Vladimir Yavorowski, city of Kirovograd, Block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear colleague, perhaps no one will deny that Ukraine and the Ukrainians survived largely on land and during the period of Stalin, when each tree had to be taxed, for every chicken, for everything alive and not even alive. Because of this, of course, it's a national tradition, it's part of the land, and I'm convinced that it really needs to be developed, and maybe even at the expense of this village, it's going to survive this terrible economic crisis. But there is one such postulate in the law that claims that only those who dispose of their products are taken into account. So I was actually thinking, where is this peasant today, Mr. Romane, to sell his produce? In Kiev, now Chernewsky is closing down the two biggest markets there is. In fact, it's just those villages that go through big, let's say, routes of some kind where a person can take something on the route, and sell something there, say, an egg, a potato, there, and so on. If it's not this norm, it's not going to be a dead end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u124	Mr. Volodymyr, your concern is correct, but in principle, in the 10th article, we have tried through the state aid system, actually through the organization of, say, mining cooperatives, through the organization of rural cooperatives, through the state aid to these rural farms, we have tried to solve this problem. I realize that today, in fact, the whole sale of the peasant is connected to the city. But every city makes its own rules. And actually a peasant can't go to the market, but eventually because of the sanitary standards, they're driven out of the streets. So I think that this is an important problem, and it can only be solved in one case when members of the private agriculture, local authorities and government, the government will be interested in solving this problem in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u125	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u126	Vladimir Vyezowski, “Our Ukraine”, the MP group “For Ukraine!” Mr. Roman, I'd like you to. Because this bill has been discussed in our session room on more than one occasion, different versions of this bill. Just to be clear when the villagers are calling on this bill so that they can be heard on the air. In what way does this solution to agricultural formation, yes, separate, yes? When our rural families often have a father and perhaps two families with them. In what way do you see a solution to this personal household within the framework of the fact that several families may be registered in one house for the most part? In what way do they claim to be their own, as provided for by the Constitution and other legislative standards, social guarantees so that they, as a single family, can turn to those standards, or declare their position that they live from that part of the earth and run that part of the earth, well, and have income from that land?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. A very, really important question. According to a valid standard, all those living in the household were considered to be members of the OSH. And it might be the grandfather, the father, the children are working or the civil servant, or it has a private business, but because he's registered in the farm, he's automatically independent of whether he's a subsidiary or not, he's an OSH member. Our law regulates. For example, there is a family with a father and a single young family or a single family member, a daughter, or a son. If he's not working today for various reasons, he's today, counting all the income he's getting from this farm, that's if he's earning himself and he thinks he's got enough of it, and he sees, unfortunately, he won't be able to get a job in the near future, but he knows that in time he still needs to retire, eventually when he gets a trauma, he needs some other social assistance from the state, he just goes to the village council and into the village council registers as a member of a private peasant.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u128	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u129	It is registered as a member of a private farm, independent of what his brother or father or mother does.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u130	Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u131	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, Party “Our Ukraine”. Dear Roman Volodymyrovich, thank you for your legislative initiative. It is known that in Ukraine, 4.8 million individual farms producing more than 80 percent of the milk produce more than 70 percent of the meat, eggs, and vegetables. So this is a major sector of agriculture in Ukraine. At the same time, state support is scarce today. Of the billions allocated for support, there is virtually nothing to lend agriculture to individual agriculture. So it seems to me that I have quite a point of view in the 10th article of your bill on State support for private agriculture. How much do you take into account the extent to which these dispositions can be implemented? How much, indeed, will this support individual farming, which is a fairly significant part of Ukraine’s national farming?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u132	Thank you. You understand, Mr. Volodymyr, that's why you caught what the bill said was about. The bottom line is that today's current legislation does not allow us to take into account who's actually doing personal farming. As I said, there is a so - called farm book in the village councils. It simply states that there is, of course, the Tuck of Roman Volodymyrovich and his family members and all. Whether or not they're doing this is real or not. If they have up to two acres [2 ha] of land or more, they automatically become members of the OSH. And when today, for example, in 2008, the state allocated about 9 billion dollars to aid agricultural production to these individual OSH members, in fact, no one can count. Today, legislation is so regulated that, let's say, we catch the same non-parliamentary word of the one who is a member of the OSH only on the spot of sale. The so - called tax inspectors go and ask the peasant: If you sell cabbage, carrots, milk, you have an income and are obliged to pay the budget accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u133	Please be more concise and complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u134	And today, in fact, there is only a repressive mechanism in the private agricultural system. [[read the peasant]] Today, because of our tax inspection, we are merely searching for, catching, and in doing so, the State is obliged to pay for it. In fact, state aid does not exist at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u135	Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. Mr. Roman, I fully support your efforts and so forth. But I would like to ask you that question. Now, you're saying as a reporter that this bill doesn't solve in principle, but, to some extent, it will help improve agricultural production and conditions, of course, some peasants there. I want to say that we have many draft laws and laws that we have passed, we have largely contributed little to these laws to the peasants, and to a large extent, we are harming them. And so I think it's no offense, but I want to offer you as a colleague as a friend: “Mr. Roman, we need to finish these trifles, we need to rip them out there, and we need to bring them in and bring them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u137	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u138	Thank you. That is why I have this counsel. No matter how much thought we received from today’s government, the proposals were not in favor of the village of Ukraine. And that's why I have a strong conviction and a request so that we can put this project today and somehow put it aside for further, just on condition that the new government, which will replace it with days, and the minister will lead the one that is needed, not the one that only contributes to someone else's understanding, but not the village. And only then, it seems to me that we need to complete and adopt some kind of program and legislation in completeness so that, not in part, we can solve the problems in the countryside, but in the complex we can eventually remove and introduce laws that really help to improve agricultural production and put food security at risk, where today we have practically proven the work of today's government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u139	Dear Paul Gnatovich, me and the current government, and the future of the government, I actually want to help in some way. This bill proposes a new concept of the definition of rural occupation. Here's the thing. I've talked about the fact that this bill is not perfect, but at least it's different on the substance of those bills that have been and that so far determine the occupation of peasants. That's the question. And if today, and I hope that many of you will support this bill in the first reading, will accept it as a basis, we will have time with the current government to work out these rules with the new government and still solve the problem of rural employment in Ukraine, because as of today, I repeat, some 10 million of our villagers have actually been deprived of state aid. I thank you and ask you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u140	Thank you, Roman Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich, please. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, I've just been asking questions. You know, we've adopted a lot of laws over the last two years. We have the most important Land Market Act today, the project is in Parliament, it's in Parliament. We don't accept it, for whatever reason. And that's why I think it's about time today that we have to seriously conduct this bill of the Law on the Market of the Earth. You know that I support my colleague and once again I want to say, trying, I know that he really wants something to help the village, not in words. I have also worked my entire life in agriculture and I also want and do everything I do, I do everything I vote and I work on adopting laws, I work on developing a village to really improve living conditions and peasants and, of course, I do, to interest the villagers and all the producers so that we can improve on our beautiful soils of Ukraine manufacturing. What has happened in recent years? Practically, the village has lost all hope for a better future. Such a deplorable policy of today's government, led by Julius Timoshenko, who holds the chair of power like the lice of a fur coat, is a disgrace! And today, for example, it was a shame to take stock of the last year’s agricultural producer’s production to determine who worked better, you know, it was embarrassing to listen, and Ukraine and the peasants finally became disillusioned when meat and milk production was reduced and continued to decline, when more of the non - quality animal production in Ukraine is now being imported into its domestic markets. In the end, they have brought about such a field as sugar, when today about a million tons of sugar is to be transported immediately to the internal market of Ukraine, otherwise Ukrainians find themselves without it as sugar. It's just a shame. And such a minister as Melnik, in his insolence and conscience, and to go and ask President Yushchenko for a hero of Ukraine! And when the villagers heard it, it was a disgrace! Finally, this indignant minister, a helpless one who, in his years, did not help the peasants, only helped the Mafia to enjoy themselves and so forth!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u142	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. Microphone, please. Yuri Anatolyovich, time to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I've heard a lot here that today's bad government, where they're planning, is giving jobs to a new government. So I want for those who are planning to start a new government to say one thing right now: that the Supreme Administrative Court has just decided to stop the CEVC protocol for the selection of Yanukovitch to deal with the case in fact. [[Applause]] This is because some did not fall before a shot, which may not be, and some believed in justice, and I refer to the entire Ukrainian people. And here's what I'm trying to say to this law is that I want to thank my colleague, Tucker, for introducing this law, because a good bill, of course, I particularly liked article three: the main directions of government policy in the area of personal agriculture. In particular, there is the provision of State support to members of private agriculture. I think that if you and I adopt a new law on the state budget, which will be included in all the parts of the hall and which are decorated today, I hope that tomorrow they will no longer be different flags, and around there will be a state flag one, and not the distribution into party apartments in the hall visible, we will also support microwave technology that allows us to get at. We have an increase in agricultural production, a net product of 25-30 percent. Imagine we're the third in the world today, the third in the world, or we could be even higher. But we don't want to see it, because we can't kick any copies out of MinAPC right now. So I hope that there will be constructive cooperation with today's ministers and perhaps they will be updated, but this is not the issue of this law. This law applies to the fact that good novels are, in particular, article 3, and article 6, because it for the first time provided not only for the rights of duties, the rights of members of a private farm, but also for duties, including the payment of taxes and other taxes, and the preservation of the land. It is an obligation to increase soil fertility and to preserve other beneficial properties of the earth. It's very important what it is, but. But I would like to make such an important point to this bill. There is a great deal of attention in article 7 of green tourism, which is the norm of another law. Let's delete them because they're corrupting this law, you're burying the law yourself. Let's remove them from here and this other law. In general, this law is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u144	Marina Volodymyrna gives the right to speak to Alexandrovska Ally Alexanderovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! But I am more now addressing those Ukrainian citizens who are listening to our meeting or watching television. Both the rapporteur for the bill and the previous panellists, members of the people, in general, and those who asked questions, in general, said that the law was necessary, good and subtext that should be supported. Regrettably, Ukrainian citizens who listen to or watch on radio or television are currently deprived of the opportunity to take the document into their own hands, to read and to have their own opinion of what this law really gives to the specific people living with us in Ukraine. That is why I will take this responsibility and quote some of the provisions of this law. And it seems to me that those MPs who spoke in front of me in support of the bill should be ashamed of their support for the three factions, the factions of our Ukraine, Tereshuk and Schlemko. [[It's a Tuck.]] [[it's "Litvina Block"]] [[This is Yulia Timoshenko's Block.]] So here, I quote who is concerned with the law, which is called "The Personal Farming". This law defines: personal farming is a form of organizing individual agricultural production on the basis of private property and the joint work of persons in family and family relationships. That is, those who live together are members of the same family and run a common household. Next definition. Personal farming is a self-employed activity that is carried out without the creation of a legal person by a natural person and individually or by persons who are in a family or family relationship and live together to satisfy personal needs by means of production, processing, consumption of agricultural products, the implementation of their surpluses and the provision of services using property belonging to members of this agricultural holding. What is it? Today, 10-11 million Ukrainian citizens have been called here to be defined by this law. So these are people who live in rural areas, they have their own home, they live in a family, they have a cow or two, at best, they have pigs, they have chickens, they have chickens there. [[I'm sorry, Danielenko asked me to give you my rule, too.]] I mean, they're together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u146	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u147	Thank you. So they run the farm together, and by definition they grow all these things, as the law says, in order to meet their own personal needs. Understandably, the fat is made, the eggs are eaten, the potatoes are cooked, the vegetables are salted and the surpluses have the right to realize and realize. If these people realize surpluses of what they've grown up in our urban markets, they're very grateful for that, but they're paying a market fee. What does this law offer now? This law now concerns everyone who lives in the country. These people will now be obliged to pay the only tax for members of the individual farm. I mean, that's what it's never been before. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! There's no voluntary word in this law, it doesn't say anywhere in this law that these people are willing, I say again, I'll read it all. That these people voluntarily receive this status. Therefore, once again, this refers to the rights and obligations of the members of this individual farm. They have the right to dispose of surpluses, they do it without you, without your law, and they have the right to pay the market fee. It says here that all these people are people working, it's a whip, it's a killing of the village. Because people in the country today are deprived of jobs, not because they're lazy, not because they want to, but because you and your government have created such conditions when people can't find work in the country. They have to feed themselves, and thank them for feeding the city. And you put them in statistics today, you pretend we don't have unemployment in the country. By your definition, they are all people who are employed, only because if a person grows a bag of potatoes and holds two or three chickens and feeds himself and he is already considered to be employed. Therefore, once again, this law cannot be supported in any way, the law states: “Members of the private agriculture for which the conduct of the private agriculture is the main activity”. And that's the majority of people living in the country, they can't find another job, they all have to do it and they do it. Thus, these people are subject to compulsory government pension and social insurance. Today, without the adoption of this law, if a person who does not have a job cannot find a job but wants to continue to receive a retirement pension, he has the right to pay pension contributions and thus earn a pension. With this law here, he has that right without your law. So once again, it's an attempt to get all people into certain accounting and statistics, and to show that the economy is developing. You're not developing an economy, you've killed a village, you've tore up major productions that are the only ones that can be defined to be profitable and profitable. There's 3,000 hectares of profitable agrarian production around the world, and you're going to promise 2 hectares, 3 hectares, and so on. Full absurdity, such a law is a disgrace to the Supreme Council and cannot be adopted in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u148	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u149	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs would like us to consider more closely the very standards of this law of Ukraine. Because at the same time, it's also positive in terms of resolving the gaps that we have in legislation that apply to individual rural farms. But at the same time, if we're going to adopt a draft in the first reading, we have to adopt a version of a bill that can theoretically be complemented by the second reading and adoption in general. I tried to look at this law from different angles and see if it could be worked out into a full law so that it could be adopted in a second reading and in general. Let's analyze, I don't say any more declarative rules in this law, because in my opinion, the law should contain legal norms that have direct application. When we read the main directions of public policy in the area of personal farming, there is a question. So this is a declaration, this is not a rule of law. Keep going. Let's watch. If you refer to Romane Volodymyrovich, members of private agriculture, and give them the status of employees, depending on whether they are single taxpayers, we take and watch the Tax System Act in Ukraine. There's no such tax. And the same law states that only the basic law establishes those taxes that may be imposed. And one more thing. In principle, on a legal basis, you're basically referring to busy citizens depending on the income they get. And those citizens who don't get paid, who don't get paid, they become completely automatically, they get unemployment and they get unemployment. But we have a solid system. I am looking at the pension participation of these citizens in the mandatory state pension insurance. Explain to me, please, by this law you return us to a situation which, and the faction of Communists can well confirm what we had in the Soviet Union when we were given a pension of 8-12 carbs per month, while in the city the inhabitants received 100-120 carbs. In 2002, we, thank God, had already eliminated this inequality between rural and urban populations, depending on the level of their pension. So today, members of private peasant farms are members of the voluntary pension insurance system. I think this law doesn't have to be lost, and I would ask that we support and correct this law to work with it to work together into some full-fledged draft law that might be possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u150	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u151	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! The criminal reforms in Ukraine have ruined the world’s best agricultural production. We forced our farms to collapse, and we artificially gave birth to these problems that we have today, and we took the job of a villager today. We took the job, today we're not helping him run his farm in any way and be employed. With this policy that we have spent the last years here, and before that we have spoken before me and told what the burning of the land has done, it has led to a visit to Poltavska, where one of the speakers, along with Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, has left a sign on the village and on the way out of the village. Such policies in the future will result in the loss of the rural population and pensions. For us there is a fundamental question, and yet we have to give a clear answer to the fact that members of the private agriculture, if we want to drive them into the ghettos, they should have a monthly income from their work for one family member who would be equal to or above the minimum wage. This is not what anyone wants to admit today, for today one thing is acknowledged that the village today is begging, the village today has thrown away, just thrown into the ransom, everything else from the wicked one. If we know that everyone who works on earth will have at least a month’s or no less monthly income on his or her land there and on each member of his or her family, only under such conditions could we support the bill. I would have asked the author myself to return to his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u152	Please, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u153	Honorable colleagues, problems today, and more of them in rural areas. The problems of burning the houses of their homes, medical services, roads, shops. The villagers were left alone with these problems, and they solve them themselves. But the biggest problem is jobs. And it's not the fault of our rural people who have destroyed large collective agricultural enterprises, whose infrastructure has been designed to make hundreds of people work, not their fault. And they're out of a job today. Unemployment also gives birth to a pension, and unemployment gives birth to other social guarantees. Our villages are getting old today. Not gas, not water, but today’s workplaces determine whether our villages will exist on the map of Ukraine? Will humans live there? I understand that there are no ideal laws. We have proposed a bill that will, in any way, allow us to support, not strike, the possibility of agriculture. Just one example. In the budget of the State Department of Agrarian Policy last year or the past year -- 13 billion -- last year -- over 9 billion dollars went to agriculture. The village produces 60 percent of its produce, 60 percent of it is milk, and it is meat. Grain is produced in large collective farms. And tell me, there won't be a single farm in Ukraine today that says, "We got a government grant, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics helped us do something." No one's gonna say that. The village alone with its problems. That is why the bill provides the opportunity today for the state to in any way support private agriculture. Today they have to get donations for both the cow and the acre. Rural people should be able to receive pensions. I understand there are problems. And I agree with Mrs. Alexandrovsky that there is a problem. But I disagree with you. There's article 3, you obviously missed it, Ukrainian citizens have the right to choose for themselves whether or not to introduce a private farm. For them, the main activity depends on their ability to implement surpluses. So the peasant will choose for himself, he'll choose for himself. Another question. That I agree with the law to the fullest extent that it meets today’s requirements, we need to consider it in correspondence with the law on a single tax basis for members of the individual farm. This bill is on the Committee of Teryochin. If these bills are adopted, then the problems that arise with the adoption of this bill can be reconciled. So, dear colleagues, let's take it from the first reading. Then we can work on it. You have made good suggestions today. And then we're going to have this bill that the villagers are going to need instead of making their living and working conditions worse on earth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u154	Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please. Dear colleagues, on the basis of part three of article 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, published today in the Voice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u155	Honorable fellow workers! I understand, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It seems to me that we have somehow failed to give meaning to this bill, which can be really crucial to, at least, the honors of helping the Ukrainian village today. And I would like to thank the authors for their courage for this bill. From my point of view, in Ukraine today, there are villages like my native Tiklovka on Winnitzkin, which is hardly going to help, unless there's a very good investor who's going to invest something in the social sphere, though there's gas, and there's a small church there, and so on, but 47 people are still alive. For normal living villages that are still functioning today, I think there are two directions, two segments of their salvation. The first is the admission of the most active part of Ukrainian agriculture, which is still some young boys, young families who are still capable of, let's say, losing their instinct to self-preservation, to survival. They should be admitted to normal money loans. That's what can give the village a breath. And the second is what she offered. Mr. Roman and his colleagues, with Dmitr and others, invited us. That's why I'm convinced that this bill needs really hot support, because the Ukrainian village, I repeat, has always survived only on account of this very small, let's say, agriculture. And what one speaker said here is that they're going to run in there and stuff like that, it's absolutely nonsense, there's nothing like it in the bill. He's normal, he's democratic. I have the only thing that I'm talking to the authors is maybe the second reading, let's think about it, it's about the sales of these products. Well, where can a peasant go today? He's not going to Bessarabka, you know, because it's where they say everything's taken and they're controlling all these buyers, and then the price goes up, and then it hits the city, because they've got all the extras in their pockets. Or even a grandmother who can go on an ice-truck trip in a dead cologne, sit there and sell an egg or a piece of meat, it's not for sale. Because I understand what you want to do to get the state involved to be the cooperatives that Julia Timoshenko was talking about, gathering agrarians. Of course it's necessary. But it is important to think very carefully that a peasant has a place to share this product so that it does not fail. To train him, perhaps even to remake it in its original form. Sometimes I come up to these grandmothers and say, "Why are you selling this potato now?" Would you make a liver or even sell it? Or take it over there and sell it on the road. Sometimes you drive there and eat something hot. Sadly, our people have not been trained to do so. But this bill is good, it really does take a normal step towards saving the Ukrainian village I thank the authors again. BUTT supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u156	The closing word "Takka Roman Volodymyrovich."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u157	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I basically agree with all the speakers and literally a few thesaurus. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, I really agree with you that part of green tourism should be taken from here, because this is a separate question, it needs a broad discussion, a broad presentation in the bill. I agree with you. I'm still addressing my colleagues from the Communist faction. Dear Mrs. Alla and Mr. Sergio, that's a very good question. But just literally right now, it's not an idea, it's an offer. What Sergey Gordienko was asking, I answered him. When I point out in article 5 of chapter III, which is voluntary, I am a member of a personal farm, and I can voluntarily count my income. There's an offer right now. You can take the old norm, where each area defined the minimum revenue. And the point is, if in this area it's lower than the minimum wage -- everything, you're unemployed, you're not busy. So I think the basic principles are set here. Do you understand what this is about? Every Cabinet of Ministers, every government, why are they against it? And because there's going to be a government grant to the Employment Fund. And in fact, today's unemployment aid is coming from the state budget. And whoever is not in the government, whether the present government, or the future, they are against it. But I'm happy for what? That everyone agrees that the problem needs to be solved. Mr. Michael, I agree with you that as long as there is a solid system in the Pension Fund, and while subsidies are coming from the village budget, remember when we were on the committee, when miners said that miners are now subsidizing into the peasant pension fund and so on, but sometimes we have to talk about it. Well, when do we start talking? And so the axis of this bill is the first step towards what the problem is in the state, you have to talk about it, but you don't talk about it in terms of what you, a peasant, everybody, are so stupid, you're worthless, you don't know how to produce, you don't feed anyone, and the state feeds you. Here we have to say otherwise that today the state has not created a peasant's condition to feed itself and the surpluses of agricultural produce that it has so that it can freely sell and feed a few more tens of urban families. That's what the law says. And most of all. This law allows a peasant, when he is retired, not to go to the state with an outstretched hand, but to say: “I worked for myself, I worked for society, and now I also need a fraction of the national pie to be given.” He needs work, but it's a base to work on. So once again, take it as a base, and then we'll take into account all the suggestions that were made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u158	Thank you, Roman Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please prepare for decision-making. It is put to the vote for adoption in the first reading and on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Personal Farmers. [[Registration number 4368]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:22:27]] For 206 The decision is not taken. A motion for re-reading is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:54]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the rules of the Supreme Council do not contain such a term as processing. We can adopt it on a basis or re-read it. In that case, we voted on both proposals, the draft law did not get the necessary number of votes. Dear colleagues, what are some more suggestions? Please, the offer, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I have taken the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine”, which has already published the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council, and I read article 114: “The outcome of the first reading of the bill”. The third point is: “Returning the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to recast or refer it to the Main Committee for the preparation of the re-reading.” That's why it's the norm for pre-processing. And I propose that we correct this law to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u160	Actually, it's in one point, that's for reprocessing -- it's for re-reading. So you didn't understand the question? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Re-reading provides for a review of the completed project, so this is the Rules and explains. Dear colleagues, in view of the misunderstanding of the voting position, I am voting on the motion to return to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding this law in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:56]] For 257 Decision taken. A motion for approval is put to the vote in the first reading of the draft Law on Personal Agriculture. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:27]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The following sentence is put to the vote: to refer this draft law to the redrafting and the following to the re-reading of the first reading. Is that clear? Please vote. [[13:25:57]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the following issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture. [[Registration number 4566]] Report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u161	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At the beginning of my speech, I want to remind you why it was necessary to initiate the proposed bill, and what makes it different from the bill of the one they were just considering. Well, first of all. The bill, which has just been considered, proposes a new edition, a virtually new edition of the Personal Agriculture Act, and the government bill proposes to amend the law. The other one. We share the approach of the MP's bill, and we also propose to clarify what the definition of individual farming is and that it is based on the individual work of a natural person, or the joint work of individuals who live in a family and live together. Third, it is suggested that new definitions should be made regarding the conduct of private agriculture and the membership of private agriculture, the order of acquisition and termination of such membership. By the way, there is no such procedure in the MP's bill. Today, even underage children who live with a person who is assigned such land are members of a private farm. Fourthly, we also support a more perfect system for the calculation of individual agriculture by rural, rural and urban councils at the site of the land in both bills. Today, such accounting is limited to agriculture, that is, land. Data is outdated and almost non-renewable, our government bill envisages simplifying the granting of jobless status to peasants, obtaining a full range of job search services, and providing material security. This is the problem that the participants in the All-U.S. Council on the socio-economic development of the rural population on May 23, 2009. And most importantly, what is not in the bill just discussed is a more detailed definition of the criteria for the employment of members of individual farmers. You will recall that after the adoption of the Ukrainian law amending some of Ukraine’s laws to reduce the impact of the global financial crisis on the employment of the people initiated, I will remind you that the bill was initiated by the people’s deputies. And it was their project that was based on the members of private agriculture, for which the work in such a farm was the main one, that was referred to as busy persons. The only thing that hasn't been anchored at the legislative level is the criteria for defining the basic work for members of individual farmers. By its decision of February 25, 2009, the government determined that work in a private farm for a member of the farm was essential, provided that during the year he performed exclusively such activities as personal farming, whether he was clearly employed or engaged in a type of activity defined in article 1, paragraph 3, of the Employment Act of less than 26 calendar weeks. Such citizens are provided with advice on finding suitable employment if they are approached by the State Employment Service. At the same time, when a member of a private farm was employed, engaged in creative or other activities, paid contributions to a compulsory state unemployment insurance of not less than 26 weeks in case of loss of employment, he registered as unemployed, and received all social services and material security. As a result of this decision, the number of people registered in rural employment centers has increased. During 2009, 720 thousand villagers received social services and material security. More than 200,000 villagers were employed. This mechanism is working today. Yet, it remains unregulated at the legislative level. We propose that this mechanism be enshrined in the law. The adoption of the bill before you will provide an opportunity to resolve the issue for some 4.8 million households. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u162	Is there a question for the national MPs to report? Please sign up. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u163	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Ludmila Leontovno, I have a few questions for you. First. please tell me where 26 weeks can be worked in the vast majority of rural areas in Ukraine where you can work and work. What are we going to do with the graduates of those few vocational and technical schools that have stayed and graduated, and if they haven't worked for 26 weeks, have they graduated from higher education? When the state doesn't provide jobs. How can they be accounted for in the Employment Center? The question is: Do you not think it is necessary to unlock the problem that if you are not an accountant at the Employment Center, you are not receiving a grant because it is a very important problem for rural people. There's no evidence that you're counting at the Employment Center, so you're not getting a grant. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u164	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In fact, for 26 weeks, it is difficult to find such a job. But I gave you an example of 200,000 villagers getting this job. They went to the Employment Centers, and we found this job. As far as the children are concerned. So this order, which was adopted on February 25, 2009, guarantees that all of these students, all of these graduates who turn to the state employment centers, will be accounted for as unemployed. And this document is solved. As far as subsidies are concerned, really, I support you, let's work on this issue, it's not about today's bill that the national MPs are considering. We'll work, if you please, let's meet and settle these issues. It's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u165	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u166	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Madam Minister! I pointed out that the bill of government was registered on May 29, 2009. And I want to ask you, as Minister and Cabinet of Ministers, why didn't the government insist on a more rapid review of this problem in 2009? Sometimes it is not because the Prime Minister, in the case of a presidential candidate, was more comfortable to travel to villages and to promise state acts on land free of charge at the expense of the budget. And when the election is over with another result, here you are, gentlemen of the peasants, please, this discriminatory law. That is why he did not appear earlier in the order of the Supreme Council of the day. I want you to dispel my doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, and I would like to answer the following, that this law, as you say, is disgraceful, has been accepted by the people's deputies and supported in this room. And the government actually made decisions that took away all these conditions under which a peasant couldn't have been registered at the state employment center as unemployed. And this order, which was adopted on February 25, 2009, decided all of these issues, which she now stressed. We just want them to be legally confirmed. With regard to the insistence or insistence of the government on a more rapid consideration of the matter several times, we also referred to this list of documents that indicated that it was necessary to accept, honourable national deputies, those legislative acts, and that legislative act. So I'm asking you very much to support this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u168	Djenkovich Ivan Vasilovich. Hungarian Pavlov Akimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u169	Dear Ludmila Leontiyevna, I think it's a really good law and thank you for the, really, greed that you've brought to him here today in the Chamber of Deputies. I think our faction will support him clearly, and I have a question. What conditions are laid down in this law, according to which the conduct of a private farm is considered to be a key work for a member of such a household and what it gives him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u170	Thank you for asking. The conduct of a private farm is considered a major job for a member of such a farm, provided that for 12 months prior to the day of the call to the State Employment Service, he did only engage in activities related to the conduct of a private farm, whether he worked on terms of employment or engaged in the type of employment provided for in article 1, paragraph 3, of the Employment Act of less than 26 calendar days. So it's clearly written and it's fine, and it's been working in our country for a year now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u171	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Ludmila Leontovna! I would like you to tell me this thing, and I see that the government has long wanted to introduce these bills -- this is our problem, why we didn't look at it earlier -- does not refer to the Ministry's fault. But now you've seen a new bill on a new draft introduced by the MPs, just before that, so much so that we've been talking about it today. Don't you see the possibility of uniting the standards that were now in the Weaver Bill along with all the norms that you're currently preparing, because I don't see anything political here, there's no politics here, here, in fact, there's an attempt to bring everything into the legal field to ensure the activity of 10 million people. [[new editor]] It's absolutely necessary. I mean, to combine these efforts with the MPs. In what forms do you see this as you look at this issue in the hall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u173	Dear National Deputies! I propose that you support and accept this bill as the basis for the government's bill. And we will work hard and support this bill, which has now been adopted by you and considered by you. And there are questions, of course, about some articles of this bill. For example, when it comes to whether a person’s defined status depends on his or her income to pay a single tax for members of a private farm. But these are, you know, revolutionary things to do. And we will unite our efforts to make sure that they are, indeed, made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u174	Thank you, sit down, please. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u175	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 23 June 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture, registration number 4566, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and notes the following. The notions of “personal agriculture” enshrined in the bill, “members of private agriculture” are discriminatory, since membership in private agriculture is linked solely to ownership, or in the lease of land for private farming. It does not take into account the fact that rural people may own other property that is used for personal farming. In addition, article 3 p.m. refers to members of a private farm exclusively those who are entitled to property or leases, a land plot for private farming, leaving out of consideration the status of relatives who live with them but who do not own or rent land. But the most unacceptable thing is that, according to the bill, all persons who owned or leased land for private farming during the last year, or worked on terms of employment for less than 26 calendar weeks, are considered busy and therefore cannot register with the public employment service, such as those seeking employment. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be returned for further work. I'd like to take this opportunity to say a few minutes. I wouldn't really be putting the issue here right now, but I've already pointed it out, and once again I'm saying, it's a good thing that the Cabinet of Ministers settled this issue by its own decision. Because you remember what happens last year in the January-February month when I just, I apologize for that word, the peasants “balled” from the centers of employment. In some ways, the Cabinet of Ministers settled it. But respectable Ludmila Leontievna herself said that when millions of peasants were unemployed in 2006, 2007, 2008, last year only 200,000, 200,000, thanks to this decision in the Employment Center. Do you know what the question is? Today, largely, this bill is not necessary because there is a valid Cabinet Order, but there are rules here that can really be combined with those that we voted on in the previous bill. But you'll agree, for example. I'm afraid in the Ukrainian execution, if we adopt this bill, it's such a reality that there may be elements of corruption there. Because I am reading Article 4, “The calculation of the individual agricultural holdings and their members”. In fact, today every member of the country, every member of the private agriculture, if you adopt this law, he will go to the village council, he will fill in the form of reporting, and he will report to the village council that he had too much produce, he sold it. And that's how the accounting is going to go. Do you have any idea what that would be like in a village? Someone brought a proper presentation, the village council issued a document, and it went away. That's the question. Because once again, the basis of this bill is attachment to the ground. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister, I very much ask you, let's send this one out for work at last. We're going to sit together with you and we're going to adopt a single bill that will permanently obliterate the question that our peasants must, because they don't have jobs, become, let's say, fictitiously unemployed. This bill of yours, unfortunately, will not solve this problem. That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u176	Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u177	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine!” Dear Romane Vladimirovich, reporting on the law, you spoke the essence of it and the minister also told the essence of her law, namely the Cabinet. Yet, there is a real difference between the two laws. I think the last is really discriminatory about Ukrainian agriculture as such, but I have a different question. Indeed, that decision that came out last January rejected millions of peasants from receiving subsidies, aiding children, or unemployment aid. Do you not think that it would be possible for us to do so today, either to complete this decision, or to settle it, or to cancel it altogether? Because it really makes peasants hostages of those employment centers or government structures that are working virtually against peasants today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u178	Dear John Mikhailovich, do you understand the problem? You know, as they say, bad peace is better than good war. If we eliminate this government decision in general today, then it will be what happened last year in January and February. I wouldn't be so keen on the question that she's bad, that decision. It's actually to some extent discriminatory to peasants, because once again, the minister said, only 200,000 turned, but it still defines, but it still defines some rules of the game. And that's why the decision has to be what it is today, but we need the legislators together with the government to adopt it as soon as possible, let's say, any bill that settles this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u179	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u180	Olga Bodnar, Fatherland Party “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, I have a question for you. We want to help the villagers now. And there is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that to some extent regulates the issue, which unfortunately was missed by parliamentarians in this room. We have now seen that the hall has sent the previous bill for re-reading. Appropriately, more faithfully, for further work. You're now proposing to support this. I don't see the logic. If we support the peasants, we need to support at least the concept of this bill and you can join in its work by supporting it. I don't see any such problems unless you're already very concerned about not being the author, I don't know. But in this case, give the villagers at least this straw that they can hold on to. Support this idea, if your idea is a good idea, I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u181	My friend, I thank you very much, but the question is not that I am one of the authors of the previous bill. And the question here is not about drag. Look, I'm going to answer this bill. Members of private agriculture are persons who provide themselves with work on their own – and later on – the conduct of a personal farm is considered the main work of a member of such a farm, provided that for 12 months that he carried out only activities related to the conduct of a personal farm and beyond. What does that mean? This means again what we talked about. If I have 2 hectares of land, I consider myself a busy person and I have no right to go to the Employment Center. Here's what we're talking about. He doesn't decide anything, he doesn't decide anything. And that's not even the point. If we accept it, what does this bill do? He's actually legitimizing the Cabinet of Ministers. Then logically, let's draft a new bill, today we have a valid decision, the issue is settled temporarily, but we're going to adopt the law that we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u182	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u183	Dear Romane Volodymyrovich, I'd like us to put the accent right, and you've talked about it in principle. The adoption of this bill, it's not a new bill, first of all, it's some kind of debasing bill and Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, and Oleg Borisovich Shevchuk, who were. He doesn't solve the basic issue of rural employment. This is what the bill says, and our television viewers and Ukrainian citizens need to know about it, it's just a matter of avoiding responsibility, because the government, when it adopted Decree 144, had no legal basis to accept it, and actually replaced the country's higher legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now they're just avoiding responsibility for actually committing a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u184	It wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u185	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u186	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Romane Volodymyrovich, I still want to find something good in every bill and that I'm uniting. I understand the aspirations of many who want to be ministers. And let's go back to the bill. I see a plus in that there's a certain definition in article 1 that is personal agriculture. I look at the definition that you gave in article 1, you gave that this is a form of organization of individual agrarian production based on private property and the joint work of individuals who are in a family or family relationship. They now give: “this is a form of agricultural production organisation in land areas provided for the conduct of a personal family farm based on individual work” and so on and what is “the conduct of a personal farm”. I see the need to combine this, because this is a deeper theoretical approach, but it has to be not only because of property, but also because of land, through land, because that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u187	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm not going to comment on what you asked, I'm just going to say one thing. So let's think about, while there's still a little bit of time, let's think about it together. I read article 4 of this bill: “Members of private agriculture report annually to rural, rural, city councils at the location of the land area on the activity of the farm. In the case of a few members of a private agricultural holding, one report shall be submitted.” Dear colleagues, someone in this room will decide: Please report at least one farm in Ukraine. What are we talking about, what are we talking about? Out of 4.8 million farms, at least one will report voluntarily? That's the question. You don't have to fool yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u188	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session for 15 minutes with a view to concluding our consideration of the matter and signing up for discussion. Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u189	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to bring you all back exactly a year ago when the actions of today's ranks created an open vachanal about a rural worker, when it was forbidden to put people in charge of a piece of land in the Employment Center. I repeat, today's government in Ukraine has broken down big commodity production, forced down agriculture, robbed jobs, robbed last year, and continues even to have the right to be accounted for at the Employment Center. I would like to say that the government then went to all kinds of measures to avoid paying or accounting for those in the Employment Center. He was trying to do two things. The first is to reduce the number of unemployed people in Ukraine and to show how much they have been reduced and to make the village work. And the next is to unload the State Budget and the Pension Fund in the part where it was still necessary to pay many and many grants, and under today's conditions, when you're not and you're not counting on being unemployed or not working, you can't get a grant under today's documents. And when you don't have a job in the village and you don't get support from a country that has this kind of subsidy, it's terrible for every rural family. In fact, I've already asked the Minister the question myself, I don't want to, I repeat, these questions and 26 weeks and so on, but I think we still need to take seriously the new approach to accounting and statistical reporting in the village, and still solve the new issue of granting subsidies, coming out of the realities that are in the agricultural complex of Ukraine. The issue of supporting this bill does not stand in the faction, as the bill is a nervous reaction to the virtually illegal decision the government was trying to solve the problem itself created last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u190	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, this quote from the previous speaker, which is a nervous reaction, in my opinion, we don't have at all, legislators, to respond to such things in any way, emotionally. You and I need to watch the bill now, its standards, and improve the legislative field. I would like to say this, using the presence of a government minister, and I would like to say that I ask the government: If I make changes to the law, it is necessary to foresee either a new edition or to change the complex law. Because somehow it doesn't look good when we're still continuing the practice of patching, stepping up the laws that work, is absolutely not good. And this actually humiliates the government, humiliates both ministers, and humiliates the Supreme Council as a whole. So I just want us to listen to this argument and we want to be more comprehensive about it. I also don't quite understand my colleagues who, instead of convincing the government. I'll tell you what all of us governments have done, all of us: they've done laws. Well, don't we know that? So let's move away from this, it's a completely different legal culture to be, to be raised. I see a good one here. What is the value of this bill? The positive thing is that while there is an attempt to determine what “personal agriculture” is, which is “the conduct of a personal farm”. And that's very important. Because we don't yet have a definition in the law of whether members of these farms can be considered to be members of individuals who run such an individual farm, because so far there is no order of acquisition and termination of membership in a private farm, because so far it is not clear what conditions work in a private farm is considered to be essential, and as a result, there are difficulties in asking members to contribute to the employment and registration of the State Employment Service, such as those who are looking for work, because the budget is not that they are homeless. But we need to think today about having a good, quality law for 10 million people. So I'm calling now for this bill 4368, which was now, to consider which is aimed at redrafting, to merge with this bill 4566, will be a good definition, good definitions, to reject perhaps harsh approaches to article 8 concerning 26 weeks. And then this is going to be a chorus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u192	Garlic Grigory Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u193	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, I will personally vote in favour and support the proposal not to support this bill, or send it for further work. What motives do I come from? Well, first of all, let's do it this way, has the state taken any steps to create the right jobs in the population? I support those words that I spoke here, almost shouting to scream at us and to all of Alexandria. We destroyed collective farms without creating any or any conditions to create employment. They say a lot here that if there are two hectares of land, it's a personal gromadian. You can already provide, so to speak, a job. Well, think of it this way, in the countryside, depending on weather and other conditions, most of the time is not suitable to do one or the other, or be busy at work on the land. Because they are climatic, there are other conditions that say that only a fraction of the time, and specifically about a third of the time, a person can be occupied in this land area. That's the first question. And the second question. tell me, please, of course, that the ministry that cares about being a fund, where you pay it off, and today it pays off, you know, at 1.6 percent, this company pays for it, and 0.6 pays the citizen who works. And in total, 2.2 percent, if I'm right, this is the money that goes to the special fund, this fund pays off unemployment. And she certainly cares about the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs? To be paid and to be counted. Because if this breakup is going on, it's chaos, it's discontent and so on, and so on. I think that issues like population employment and unemployment pay come out of one problem: the state has to create, help restore, how do you want to do this, create jobs. And only from the employment of the population that will work will we have enough to pay, including unemployment. Because think about one thing. There are no statistics from 3 to 7 million, we work abroad. Seasonal workers up to 5, up to 10 million are seasonal workers. As a result, there is no doubt that there is a great deal of pressure on the Ministry. But if we don't solve the question of employment, if we don't solve the issue of job creation, and if a citizen who owns his own household never lets him create a normal competitive enterprise that will grow and compete with Western and other companies, then we won't learn about it. So I count, if the Ministry of Social Policy, along with the Ministry of Economics, with other ministries, including the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, surely they should give a comprehensive program. A comprehensive program in which a person will be employed for eight hours a day and from a new year to a new year. Then it's only up to us. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u194	Thank you. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The bill specifies the definition of a personal farm, covers the gaps involved in the legislation. And in particular, I suggest that the OSH be seen as a form of agricultural production organization in land areas provided for the conduct of a personal farm based on the individual physical work of a natural person or the joint work of a person who is with that person in a family relationship. In addition, a clearer definition of who is a member of a private farm is given to the order of acquisition of an OSH. And I want to point out that the bill introduces the accounting of the OSH members, and this bill should be kept by the local village village councils. And they should give information on this account to the State Employment Service in order to help these people promote employment. I think it solves problems that have not been regulated and that is a constructive proposal that needs to be supported. I think that, in general, this does not conflict with the bill presented by Mr. Roman Tkac, and if it was accepted as a basis and amended by the previous bill, then these two bills could be combined and taken into account mainly the law on personal agriculture. Therefore, as a result of the first reading, I count that it can be supported and accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u196	Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you further that the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has reported to Roman Tkac, from the committee that the committee has not supported this project. And why? He didn't support it because, at first, with very late Mrs. Denisov's Minister of Social Policy, I came to Parliament, Your Honor, I respect you as a woman, but you came late to carry on this project that you wanted him to help you, to cover up your unfaithful anti-constitutional 144 decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which you had no right to accept and push for signature, and to accept by the Cabinet of Ministers Julia Timoshenko, your friend. So today I want to tell you, to this day, Ludmila Leontiyevna, while you are still sitting in your chair the day before tonight, Minister of Social Policy, you and Julius Volodymiriy Timoshenko today can only take this bill to your archives and enjoy it at home. Since you are unemployed in a few days, you may find it appropriate. And so, dear colleagues, this bill is not just a committee that didn't support it because it's covered up, it's just, this bill, like the Cabinet of Ministers decree, except for the peasants, it doesn't give any help. And that's why I don't think this project can be supported, and I'm sure it won't be supported today. And what about this project to take advantage of the previous report by Roman Tkac, I think there's nothing to take in that project, there's nothing to take in. Because this project is simply, I remind you once again, not for the benefit of peasants, except for damage. So I think we need to make a real project like this in the future, and now, like our committee and our new government, we're going to work on creating the conditions that a person should go to the Employment Center and that for really important reasons he can't find a job. Even today we have worked out, received benefits such that today three thousand, five thousand, farmers ’ wages are no longer available on the harvester or on the tractor. That's why I think it's social.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u198	Please, the closing word is Ludmila Leontievna Denisova.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u199	Dear National Deputies! I don't need to be insulted that much, you know, probably because I'm a woman first, and you're men. And who's sitting in the chair here, you know, I got this chair in this room. Not because of anyone else, but because of the national MPs. And so if you have the trust of the national deputies, so much gratitude, if you don't have the trust of the national deputies, then I will leave this room. [[Applause]] And so I wanted to thank all the people's deputies for their hard work in relation to all the bills that the government is proposing. And that's very important because that's how you treat citizens who have chosen you and given you that status as a national deputy. Once again, I would like to point out that this bill was actually submitted by the government in May 2009. And a few of the things that the government is offering there are really outdated. And so, if you please, and if this bill is sent back to read again, we will work, and we will make changes. And we're going to work with the agrarian committee with all the other interested people's deputies on this issue regarding the peasants. And we're going to work on the changes in article 8. And I think we need to soften the conditions for recognition of unemployment, the employment of our peasants. Because the crisis is already leaving us, we're a little bit out of the crisis, and we can work in other conditions. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u200	Final word Roman Volodymyrovich Tkac, please. Roman Vasilovich, you don't have to worry about the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u201	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, first of all, since we agreed not to talk about politics, Ludmila Leontiyevno, I'm really sorry that I didn't get the numbers wrong, and last year, not 200,000, and 720 thousand turns were recorded in the employment centers, 500 of which were given unemployment status. Roger that. I'm sorry about the numbers. But in general, my dear colleagues, I'm really also from the committee, from myself, I'm really thanking everyone who's worked here. What kind of decision to make, well surely every faction will be determined, but really the question is, thank you for saying that there is a problem of the occupation of peasants, it exists, it stands sharp today. Because whether we're still in a crisis or we're still out of a crisis, in a city, in a city-type village, in a small town, it's easier to find a job. Today, in rural areas, when the social sphere was virtually destroyed, large agricultural production was destroyed, the peasant was left to himself. How Can I Solve It? Let us unite in this regard, and in a large way, people will just say thank you. Thank you, let's vote as we have decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-17-m0.u202	The discussion is over, please prepare for decision-making. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture is put to the vote, registration number 4566, for adoption in the first reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:11:31]] For 131 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The morning plenary session is closed; the next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on Thursday.
