ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:36]] They registered cards in the 402 people’s deputies’ session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions of proposals, statements, messages, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Baranov, Alla Alexandrovska, and Sergey Soboljev signed up. Please, Valery Baranov, Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u2	Respectable voters and colleagues! In 19 years, collective efforts have failed to build an effective Ukrainian State that provides a decent life for its citizens. Both are responsible for this: former non-professional leaders and a society that expects a miracle without its own efforts. Destructive populism will destroy our country and put it on international ridicule. We have no choice but to stop the deception of people. The reform agenda, its clarification to society and its phased implementation must be initiated immediately. I mean, the election is over, enough is enough to lie to each other, and let's work on a solution to mature problems. What are the basic problems for us today? The first is an incapacitated management system in which the command and administration system remaining from communism manages the market economy. The second is a basic training system: who has already managed anything. The third is a fully corrupt law enforcement and judicial system. And the fourth is a ruined economy, overwhelmed by an absurd tax and control system. We need to start with these problems, without which no promise of politicians will be fulfilled. But politicians also understand that if people offered a professional reform programme, no one would ever vote for them. Society doesn't want reforms, it doesn't want to worry about them -- it's waiting for miracles, waiting long and hard. We must have the courage to set a goal for which we are going and to draw up a professional programme for its achievement. Here it is to be discussed on Schuster’s television debates, not to compete over who spits further, but to shine on the ability to solve these problems. I note that Ukraine has not yet known any worthy and serious programme of action of the Government. Usually it's a set of good wishes. Trying to push a cart with square wheels didn't work. We need to change our systems and mechanisms, not our exporter's. The history of the planet does not know examples of a decent life of society without a developed self-government. The subject has been cleared, but it has not been solved, as no problem has been solved in our country. Centralization of power and finance is the main obstacle to our development and the root cause of corruption. The time has come to eliminate regional and regional administrations in their existing form as a vertical for the presidential administration to elect itself. The cursed party electoral system is destroying local self-government. All candidates to the Presidents recognized this and demanded to return to the majority system of elections on the ground. If they're all so united, let's go back. There's a bill this week. Let us discuss, vote, and give the first gift to our society. And then the councils won't run the local queens from the district centers. The party system violates human rights and our Constitution. We have a choice, but there's no way to be elected because if you don't join the party, you'll never be a deputy. On the thirtieth of May, elections, let us also consider the decision of the Constitutional Court, which led to the absurdity of the system of election of mayors who were elected early. This decision has been personally chosen under Kiev, and the whole country will suffer. The method of election in a single round of mayors is also worthy of discussion. Because in such a situation, people often become accidental, deceivers, and passersby. We have a duty to understand for ourselves and to convince society that in the current systems: health care, social policy, housing and utilities, there is no way for us to change anything in our country. It is important that there is a solution to each problem, only if the first person is personally leading the reform process and the movement in the Supreme Council and society is in one direction. Once again, we have a chance, respectable colleagues and respectable voters, let's not miss that chance again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u3	Alla Alexandrovska, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Sergey Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u4	I would like to draw the attention of both politicians and the people of Ukraine to one very important issue. Today, quite often, we hear this phrase: Ukraine is split. We are Communists who believe that this is an incorrect statement. Ukraine doesn't split. Ukraine is a single nation with a single people, but unfortunately Ukraine is on the verge of a disaster and we Communists are drawing your attention to the fact that much is being done in the elections, but elections do not solve all problems. They do not address the problems of Ukrainian citizens who are awaiting work today, wages, economic development, personal security. You all know that we are the Communists who have offered the Presidential candidate, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, our platform. A platform that should serve as a basis for ensuring the fundamental rights of our citizens: the right to work, the right to health, the right to education, the right to freedom of life in that free country. We are pleased that Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic joined our platform and took it to work. And we are confident that, based on our proposals, we will really get Ukraine out of the crisis, we will get people what they want in this life. Finally, we hope that Ukraine's retreat to fascism will be halted. This is a matter of concern to many people living in Ukraine. There can be no unity in the people, there can be no security in the State if we have the head of fascist formations, if we have the ideologies of fascism as the foundation of domestic politics. We Communists insist that this issue in our country be settled forever, that the ideology of fascism be rejected by our society and our politicians. We wish to draw attention to the fact that many citizens of Ukraine are awaiting solutions to the most basic problems. We Communists are approached by persons with disabilities who are entitled to free transportation, many of whom do not have such transportation. We have been outraged to learn that we in the Supreme Council have attempted to falsify our decision with you, to amend the Ukrainian Law, which gave the family of the deceased a right to use the car that was granted to that person on concessional terms. We have decided with you that the car should remain in the family, and we have learned with horror that an attempt has been made to falsify our decision. I believe that such deputies who make such attempts do not belong in our Supreme Council, and we demand that the names of those involved in this falsification be called from the Supreme Council's rostrum. I cannot help but wonder about another issue that concerns many people living in Ukraine — the right to land. The Ukrainian law guarantees the right to land, to land rations. But what great problems thousands, hundreds of thousands of people face in trying to establish their right to land. We know that some policies have reportedly taken decisions that allow the right to produce the necessary documents free of charge. We know that this was a cynical lie because nothing has been done to really benefit people from that right. I am addressing you today, distinguished colleagues, to those who will work in the executive branch. Our promises to the people must be fulfilled without fail, and must be fulfilled by all structures of power. Only then will the people respect the authority, feel that it is, and realize that it works for the people. I once again call upon all of you to work constructively, in a consolidated manner for the benefit of Ukraine, for the benefit of the people of Ukraine and above all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u5	Please, you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u6	Above all, do not deviate from the decisions we have made. One such flagrant derogation is an attempt to deny the land of Artec. We have passed a special law with which we have protected the right of this organization to the health of our children to use the land on which it is located. Today, we know that attempts are being made to provoke a solution to this issue and to prevent the law from being enforced. I am sure that we will see to it that the law is binding on all, that power be respected by the people, that power work for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u7	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev is invited to the presentation. Next is Michael Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u8	Dear voters, honourable fellow citizens! Let me thank all of these 12 million, almost 12 million, voters who supported Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and the democratic Ukrainian choice in these elections. Some thanks to those millions of citizens who voted in the first round for other democratic candidates. But unlike so - called leaders, the nations did not stay home, not vote against everyone, but went and made their conscious choice for democracy, for the independence of the state. Dear voters! On February 7, 2010, Ukraine re-elected the election of the President of Ukraine. The elections to which our people were to elect the head of state, the guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Basic Law of Ukraine foresees and guarantees free will, but the February 7 vote has unfortunately not once again become a model of a transparent and democratic exercise of the right to vote. It is not a secret that the team of the leader of the Viktor Yanukovic Party of the region was set up from the very beginning to falsify the electoral process. To that end, they resigned the Minister of the Interior. In the days leading up to the second round of elections, the amendment to the Presidential Elections Act, which violated the balance of commission formation and opened a gateway to disrupt the electoral process. The union of Yanukovic and Yushchenka ensured that Parliament was raped to enact this law. This questioned the ability of the current Supreme Council to work within the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and the interests of its constituents in a civilized way. Therefore, the BUT faction requires the immediate repeal of this law and the return of Parliament to the constitutional circle and the cleansing of disgrace and humiliation. That is why we have introduced draft Law 6046 and ask that it be placed in the agenda and after consideration by the committees, not as it was done with the previous law, to put to the vote in the Supreme Council, because the law on the election of the President is not only adopted in 2010, this law is adopted forever, and that is why we insist that democratic norms, the formation of committees on parity principles be reinstated in the law on the election of the President. It should be borne in mind that these are not the last presidential elections in Ukraine, and the legislative field cannot be formed under a candidate who cannot win an honest fight. The day of the vote demonstrated cynical disregard for the headquarters of Yanukovich of Ukrainian legislation, insolent pressure on the electorate and a broad arsenal of counterfeiting by the Party of the Regions, which benefited from the anti-constitutional norms of the newly adopted law. Voting across Ukraine was against the backdrop of a demonstrated product campaign for candidate Yanukovic. About one and a half million of our citizens voted outside the areas, which is unprecedented for Ukraine’s electoral system. The polls were unjustifiably included the voters in the election lists on the day of the vote. We have polling stations where the number of people who wanted to vote on election day is more than a list of voters who should vote. This is a fine example of how this victory was brewed by the Party of Regions. And if we add electoral “carousels” and other violations, we understand where that 3 percent of Janukovich's withdrawal from Timoshenko came from. In the four districts of the Donetsk Region, members of the Tymoshenko District Election Commissions were not allowed to participate in the electoral process at all because of the changes to the electoral law that were passed two days before the election. The questionable provisions of the law, which we have seen, have been used. And if we add the broken ballots, the house vote, we understand how this victory was won by the Yanukovich team. In this connection, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko states that we will defend your right in the courts, our fellow citizens, to fair and transparent elections. And the last. A party of regions, don't rush to divide positions, because you're already sharing the position of technical first lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u9	Mikola Janović Azarov from the faction of the Party of Regions, please. Who from "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is going to be the show or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished members of the people and the entire Ukrainian people! First of all, I congratulate you on the convincing victory of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic in the democratic elections held. All absolutely international observers, all missions without exception, including the most authoritative: the OSCE, the NATO Council mission, the European Union, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, recognized the elections as democratic, honest and called on Timoshenko to behave with dignity, to recognize the defeat that must be done in a democratic country and to resign. To our great surprise, she lost her sense of purpose, lost her head, and called upon the whole nation to fight. For what? For high prices? For unemployment? What does she call for to fight for? Funny. She struggles with the world and with her own people. It does not recognize the authoritative views of international observers as nonsense. She's putting a fat spot on her political career. Think about it, gentlemen of the U.S. Attorneys, and in your career, they want to set a political point. As far as the so-called, your principles are concerned, ladies and gentlemen! What principles do you refer to when you used your administrative resources in closed prisons, 100 per cent voter turnout for the sites, and a hundred per cent vote for your candidate. It's a shame and a laugh. You shed a lot of crocodile tears here, saying that amending the Electoral Act three days before the vote would undermine the democratic foundations and so on. Wakhanali was launched in the media. I bring this law to the attention of the whole of Ukraine and all of them, not once has this law been applied. You were afraid to use non-invasion technology in the polling stations in the south-east and to disrupt the elections, worthy of condemning the conduct of your current members of the electoral commissions, who in the south-east of 10 districts, and in the Crimea are blocking the conclusion, and none of this will work. To date, all sections of the Crimea and Luhansk region have submitted their protocols. And out of your failed powers, we're laughing at you. Don't make fun of the whole world. You here shed crocodile tears over what's called a house vote. I want to inform everyone that in our, in those regions, the return that you traditionally call ours, and for us all our regions, so that you know. Thus, in the south-eastern regions, voting at home is twice as low as in Western areas. Miracles have also proved to be in the process of making an appearance. When suddenly 25 per cent of voters arrived in the Ternopol region between 18 and 20 hours, there was an unprecedented consensus on voting for your candidate. Whose cow would wet and yours would keep quiet. [[Applause]] But now the elections are gone in the past. Elections are over, and we have to live. So, let's go with you, I'm addressing you too, and I'm addressing all the voters who voted for Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and for those. And to those who voted in favour of Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko and to those who voted against him. Elections have ended and there are many problems in the country. The side's broken. So together, we need to move together and get the country out of the crisis, out of the chaos, we need to get the country out of a country that is worthy of development, and we need to ensure that everyone lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u11	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u12	Therefore, we must work with you to achieve a worthy conclusion, a transition of power to professionals from the formation of a decent professional government. We must adopt an anti-crisis budget and an anti-crisis programme of action and work with our sleeves no later than March.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u13	Thank you. Since the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" there are no speakers? None. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council, representatives of the MPs have made proposals that require the response of the Supreme Council, in particular with regard to the consolidation of the land by "Artec", and I ask that you prepare appropriate instructions for the relevant state institutions. It's about the proposal to repeal the law. [[Registration number 6046]] Dear colleagues, let's do this, committee. If there is an insistence, it could be put to the vote today if you suggest through the committee, please. I think the Supreme Council of Ukraine will support any proposal so that we don't have any political opposition. Is that a bet now? All right, by law. Now for the law. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, let us either consider today or tomorrow, and we will adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure by law so that we can work in the legal field. So, please gather around. You'll be ready. I'll put you to the vote today. No, when you're ready, let's put it to a vote. I ask the Secretariat to prepare information on the investigation of the issue of unvoted amendments to the Disabled Vehicle Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to consider the bills set for Tuesday, February 9, because we have a lot of questions that we should all consider. There will be two suggestions, your honor, for us to work the evening session before the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for today. And what's more, there's been calls for constructive work on how to make Ukraine's life better. If you don't, I'll put you to a vote for a reduced procedure. I'm going to put the proposal to the vote in this order. Please be supportive. I am voting on the continuation of the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. Please vote. [[10:25:42]] For-28 You don't need factions, do you? I now put to the vote on the consideration of drafts under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:26:03]] For-157. Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act is being announced for consideration – government bills. [[registration number 4183, 5060]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Trelyakov Valeriy Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Seminoga Anatoli Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u14	Honourable National MPs, the bill provides for changes in the technical and legal character to the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act with a view to bringing it into line with the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles. At the same time, article 16 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act does not yet provide that the order and conditions of service of the State Fire Protection Service are regulated by the provision on the conduct of the service by the special composition of internal affairs bodies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which does not comply with the requirements of the Final Provisions of the Law, which I have mentioned. The manner in which civil protection services are carried out is currently regulated by the relevant position and disciplinary statute of the Civil Protection Service, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2009. The implementation of a mobility for which the State Fire Protection Service is responsible, in accordance with the applicable legislation on fire safety, is based on the Civil Protection Operations Service, which is formed on the basis of the civil defence forces of Ukraine and the authorities, and the Departments of State Fire Protection, in accordance with the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Act. The adoption of this law does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget. The project agrees with Minfin, Minekonomics, Minpraci, Unobserved Entrepreneurship. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which was considered by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and recommended to the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u15	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Seminoga, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u16	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! A bill, two bills relating to amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act, is before you. The draft legislation provides for changes and additions of a technical and legal nature to the Ukrainian Law on Fire Safety, with a view to bringing it into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles (on the subject of service as a special warehouse of State Fire Protection, the imposition of the obligation of operators, irrespective of the form of ownership and subordination, whose ownership or use is at least one object of increased risk, or an explosive object, to maintain a division of State or national fire protection. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the bill under registration number 4183 would have no impact on the income or expenditure of the state, local budgets. The Chief Executive, the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, has made a number of observations, suggests that the first reading of the proposed bill should be considered. The committee came to a conclusion at its meeting and suggested recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Fire Safety Act to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 4183]] The provisions of the draft Fire Safety Act of 20.08 should be taken into account in the second reading. So please, Your Honor, support Bill 4183 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Lilia Grigorovich, please, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u19	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u20	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, to your questions. The questions before Bill 4183 we practically don't have, it's a smart bill that needs to be supported. However, I would like to point out that there are serious issues to Bill 5060. I would stress that this bill imposes additional financial and serious obligations on the owners of all forms of property. In fact, this hidden tax is proposed to be introduced, additional in the form of financing fire protection. What is more, there may be different divisions that are offered the function of State fire protection in a certain way. It's completely unclear where they're going to come from, how they're going to form, how they're going to be defined, how they can actually do this activity. So I would stress that we are ready to support Bill 4183, but before Bill 5060, we have big issues. And I think that standards can't just be implemented before the second reading in Bill 4183, there's completely different things that are proposed to settle. So I'm asking room 4,183 to support, and by no means do I support 5060.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u21	Pavlovsky People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! The Yulia Timoshenko faction supports the profile committee and proposes bills 4183, 5060 to be adopted on first reading as a basis. Bill 4183 aims to bring the provisions of the Fire Safety Act into line with the Civil Protection Law. It should also be noted that the bill adds an article on compensation for the harm done to the person involved in the extinguishing of the fire. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, who else insists on speaking out against factions who have not signed up for the performance? Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u24	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I support those who give different grades to these two bills. Absolutely fair. The first bill, which is number 4183, is worth supporting and voting, because it's about purely technical aspects of what, you know, fire safety was previously in the internal affairs system, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, now it's in another department that's been handed over to the Ministry of Emergency Affairs. And so, of course, those who serve there need to make these changes, because this applies to their ministry, to their special titles and so on, and so forth. There's no objection, we need to be supported. As for the second bill, I support those colleagues who say that they shouldn't vote today because, in fact, the second bill is designed to extend the possibilities of fire protection to those limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? Anatoly Seminoga, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I would still like to deny that point about Bill 5060. In fact, there is a dangerous norm that can allow fire services to be introduced today, let's say, in every enterprise, because we know that there is at least a GSM warehouse or a gas station that runs a service car. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the need for, in fact, the introduction of such services to large enterprises: nuclear stations, oil refineries. There is a need. So I would like to agree with the committee's decision, namely, to adopt the bill in the first reading, and to update it in the second reading, to make it an active bill that will work to ensure business safety.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I'll put their registrations to the vote for acceptance as a basis. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act, registration number 4183, is put to the vote for adoption. Please vote. [[10:35:40]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I call your attention once again. The committee proposes that the bill be adopted and that it be further elaborated. So I'm going to put a vote on the return to the bill, registration number 4183. Please vote. On the return to the consideration of Bill 4183, please vote. [[10:36:15]] For 228 They went back to reviewing the bill. I'll bet you a vote on the basis of the bill, registration number 4183, please vote. [[10:36:39]] For 248 Decision taken. Now, honourable national MPs, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the bill, registration number 5060, to amend the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. Please vote. [[10:37:11]] For-147 The offer is not accepted. Dear National Deputies! So maybe we'll listen to the committee's proposal, he suggests one minute! – to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy for the Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster with the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Law on Fire Safety, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and so forth. Don't we have to vote? All right, dear fellows, that's when we made our decision, and this second bill, please, please take into account when we're working on the second reading. Mikola Tomenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! I'd like to look at one of the difficult situations that have arisen, and we have an extraordinary situation in Kiev that continues, and last night, a group of 50 people took over the Shivo bookstore, where today only journalists are holding back from conflict and fighting, so, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, in a parliamentary plan to ask our colleagues to take over the commission of inquiry on Kyiv Kirila Kulikov and head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorovsky to intervene in this situation, and perhaps they have informed us and we could somehow protect us, because we will soon have no bookkeeping. What's more, the journalists are telling us, maybe this is related to the results of the election, that the active attack on Ukrainian culture is going on, so I would ask the Party of Regions maybe they would delegate a person to confirm that they're not on the side of Leonid Czernewecki, who's destroying everything Ukrainian in Kiev. So I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Kiril Kulikov and Vladimir Yavorowski, to get them sorted out, and maybe then at lunchtime, we'll be informed of the conflict in this bookstore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! There will be no objection to assigning the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Cyril Kulik's head, one minute, to the head of the profile committee, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, and to the deputies who are willing to join them to study the situation, because it is in fact an unscrupulous banditry in relation to the last bookstore. And when you are ready to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter. A draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5014]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Alexander Mikhajlovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine was developed following the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the purpose of proper implementation and the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the 2001 Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage. Ukraine is a party to both conventions. According to an analysis of the state of regulation of Ukrainian maritime space, it was found that the status and regime of the territorial sea, the Ukrainian Act on the State border of Ukraine, and exclusively the economic zone, the Ukrainian Law on the Exclusive Maritime Economic Zone, had already been legally established. At the same time, there is no status and no adjacent zone. According to international law, such as the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, coastal states in the adjacent zone, which may extend up to 12 nautical miles outside the territorial sea or 24 nautical miles from the baselines from which the territorial sea is counted, have a number of rights and obligations among others. The right to exercise limited control to prevent or punish violations of certain customs fiscal, immigration and sanitary rules. The rights and obligations of sunken archaeological and historical objects in the area are also governed by the 2001 Convention on the Protection of the Cultural Underwater Heritage. At the same time, in order to realize the stated rights and obligations, States need to declare in a unilateral manner the existence of such a zone and the clearly established boundaries of the zone. That is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the content of the draft law. The establishment of Ukraine's adjacent zone does not in any way affect the delimitation of Ukraine's maritime space with neighbouring neighbouring states. The project also introduces changes to a number of valid legislations in Ukraine in order to bring them into line with the requirements of the bill. These are the laws of Ukraine on the state border service, on the protection of cultural heritage, on the protection of archaeological heritage, and on the Code of Administrative Offences. The bill is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u31	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u32	to comply with national legislation and the capacity of the State to comply with those requirements. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u33	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u34	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! The committee discussed a draft Ukrainian law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5014]] And he recommended it to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine only on the basis of further development, taking into account the substantive observations made by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In his report, the deputy minister outlined all the necessary positions and advantages that Ukraine will receive from the adoption of this law. As far as the comments are concerned. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to send for further work. The Rules Committee believes that the proposed bill has been registered in accordance with articles 90, 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, but has some observations regarding the drafting of the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the above-mentioned bill does not have an impact on the income or expenditure of the State budget and does not have budgetary implications. The National Security and Defence Committee considers it appropriate to take into account the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u36	based on the base. Please support the committee's recommendations and accept the bill as the basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u37	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. There are no speakers. Obviously, it's all clear. Who insists? None. Please, the microphone, Sergey Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, the law to be considered. But there are two observations. As noted in the committee's head information, Ukraine's adjacent zone is the sea lane. However, neither the current legislation of Ukraine nor the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea define the term “sea lane”. That's the first remark. And a second observation. The law provides that research into archaeological and historical objects of cultural heritage in the surrounding area is carried out only with the permission of the central executive body in the field of protection of cultural heritage. It seems to me that such permission could be granted to the authorities of the district government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with mandatory information to the central authority. Because once again, the centralization of power is coming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u39	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, Committee Decision: Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on the adjacent zone of Ukraine as a basis. I'm voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of a draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5014]] Please vote. [[10:47:05]] For 255 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have two drafts of the Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, as well as a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. [[5040]] [[on the status of those who suffered political repression as a child]] The authors of the bill, 2521, withdrew their bill. So we're left with the draft Law 5040. The rapporteur is Deputy Head of the Secretary-General of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Igor Volodymyrovic Popov. Correspondent is the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On 31 July 2009, the President of Ukraine introduced to Parliament a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. [[on the status of those who suffered political repression as a child]] Many Ukrainian citizens who had suffered political repression had been rehabilitated. Regrettably, however, not all citizens who have been held under conditions of manifest deprivation of rights and freedoms have been recognized as politically repressive and are provided with social support. Of course, such individuals should be children who have suffered political repression in the totalitarian regime. We must not let those who have been rehabilitated in the vast majority of their childhood, except for reprisals, know what famine and war are. Those who were deprived of parental care were unable to learn, those who had been building an independent Ukraine for decades. Today, according to the All - Ukrainian Society of Political Prisoners and Repressed Prisoners, only 14.5,000 remain. So as long as they are alive, we should at least provide them with old age with respect and treatment. Accordingly, the bill provides for the extension of the benefits that are currently being paid by victims of political repression to three categories of citizens listed in the relevant bill that we had the opportunity to familiarize ourselves with. I will point out that according to previous estimates, only 91.3 million dollars per year will be needed to implement the project in part of the aid to those who are recognized as victims of political repression. Taking all the above arguments into account, I would like to support the relevant bill, whose implementation will contribute to correcting the injustices committed against those who, as a child, have suffered political repression by renewing their full rights and granting them adequate benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u41	Please, Yuri Vasilovich. The committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u42	Yuri Gnatkević, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, in principle, I was preparing for a comparative feature of the two bills: Clovis, Caracas, on the one hand, and the President. And it was not clear why they had withdrawn their proposals, even though the committee had decided to support them. Dear colleagues, there is a question of justice, and the problem remains to compensate for the moral and material damage suffered by the oppressed and their children. I recently introduced my own bill, a broad bill prepared by the All - Ukrainian Society of Prisoners and Repressed. But he hasn't been on the committee yet. The fact is that time has passed, many of those who have already been persecuted have died, the political and social situation has changed. Let me give you an example. who was both politically rehabilitated and as a child of parents who had been repressed and rehabilitated. But I remember, for example, how they were damaged. How I suffered moral damage, how my peers fell upon me, calling me an orphan. And now I don't need any material help, but there are people in our brother who collect bottles. Our neighbors, Belarus and the Russian Federation, have long resolved this issue in their legislation. Our committee has decided to recommend the adoption of the President's draft and to make the appropriate decision. It can be changed. These proposals are quite detailed. Of course, as always, Minfin denies the budget committee on this basis. But I'm going to allow you, your honor, to say one sense. You see, there's a notion of the state, there's a concept of law, there's a concept of crime, there's a concept of prison. But there are many people in this room who have in their hearts the concept of God and who have the concept of sin. That's right, the law -- we can put him in jail for breaking the law, and that's all we have to do is sin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u43	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u44	because he's actually a little praying and he's not saying good-bye. And until our society atones for sin against all those who have suffered severe moral and material losses, there will be no good in our nation, nor will God have mercy on our society. And the Ministry of Finance and those 90 million -- it's supposed to start looking at the budget bill just from the perspective of such a bill, and then look at others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Guyshuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Peter Heissuk, faction of the “Bloody of Timoshenko”. Your Honor, Your Honor, I am asking you to support this bill, because I, like the previous speaker, am the son of the repressive, and I know very well that there was a time in the past to wear this measure of reprisal. I certainly believe that Minfina needs to accept this, a small sum for the State, and to rehabilitate herself, that is, as a state, before the Lord and before the people. And once again, please accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u47	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, at last today, we are considering the changes that long ago were to be considered. Suggested in article 5 prime. The Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine adds that victims are also recognized as having been born to women who were then deprived of their liberty, who were under 18 years of age with their parents, who were under 18 years of age without parental care, of whom one or both were repressed and later rehabilitated in accordance with this law. In doing so, the recognition of those involved in political repression relies on local government administrations as an authority. I think it's absolutely right, and the benefits, in the paws that are said to be ploughs, free passage, or a 50 per cent reduction in the payment of living space and utilities, within the limits of the rules provided for in the current legislation, and also in the extracurricular provision of medical care, are absolutely replicable. And the fact that they're supposed to cost 90 million there, I first have a huge doubt that they're worth 90 million, I haven't seen the calculation that they're worth 90 million, but I want to ask those who are against the adoption of this law: and how much is human dignity, and how much is an image that lives in a person all the time, from the moment they're born, do you mean? So a State that is supposed to be civilized has to adopt this bill, and in the first, in the second reading, it's precisely so that we can now predict it in terms of funding the budget. And I'm asking and I'm proposing, Vladimir Mikhailovich, first and second reading. The bill is perfectly normal, balanced, consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, who else insists? Adam Martinyuk, microphone, please. Then there's Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u50	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you can find many beautiful words to protect the law to those who want to protect it without thinking about what it says. I would like those who wish to provide additional benefits to those who have been punished in the past by the Soviet authorities for committing crimes to think differently: from January 1st 2006, the Act on the Social Protection of the Children of War should be in force, as of January 1, 2006. On the threshold of February 2010. To date, the state has not been able to provide, nor does it want to provide the legal basis for this category of children of war. Now they've come up with categories for the bandits, for their litters, and so on and so forth. There is no way to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u51	Dear National MPs, please National MP Pavlovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, I would like to say that we have considered this bill on our committee and supported it, regardless of the faction, unanimously. I would like to point out that the bill restores social and historical justice, first of all, to children whose parents have been illegally, and I would stress that they are illegally repressed for political reasons. There are very few of these people left, and we need to restore social and historical justice to them. And I'd like to draw Adam Ivanovich's attention that this is not about all the convicts at all, it's about children who are illegal, and it's confirmed that children are being repressed. And notice, Adam Ivanovich, that in the 1930s most of the repressed were party workers, if you remember history, and I know you're a good historian. So I think you need to support this bill first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u53	Roman Tjak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u54	Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I address you. In short, I say to you: Remember, read the law! What kind of enemies are there? The law clearly states that children of parents under the age of 18 who were exported and who were then rehabilitated. We also have children in Western Ukraine, and in general throughout Ukraine, tens, hundreds of thousands of illegally convicted, repressed children were taken to Siberia by Communists in wagons that had two or three per year. What are you talking about? And it's not just about millions, it's about giving these children who were born in Siberia, where your Communist authorities took them out, and today they're getting rehabilitated, appropriate benefits and recognition by the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u55	Yuri Gnatkevitch, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u56	Thank you. I would like to emphasize once again that this law is roughly similar to the Children of War Act. And you voted him. The other one. This law does not require much money to restore justice. This law is distributed to those who were gangsters and who were real Marxists. But I understand the position of the Communists. The steel of its Marxist friends, the real Marxists, was shot, and they left the world. And he sent bandits and nationalists to prison. That's why they have children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u57	Honorable National MPs. It's not called a replica. Dear colleagues! Calm down, they didn't call names. All of it. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill, registration number 5040. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. True, it was necessary to write “in Ukraine” probably about the status of those who suffered political repression as a child. May I remind you once again, 5040, please vote. [[11:01:23]] For 228 Project accepted. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 148, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 57, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 3. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. The proposal was made in general. Is there a denial? There's a denial. I'm going to put to the vote a motion for the committee to prepare him for a shorter term, i.e. seven days. I'm putting to the vote the proposal to have the committee prepare it for a short period of time, shortly before the second reading, please vote. [[11:02:32]] For 229 Decision taken. To remind my honourable colleagues, Bill 6004 was considered in two readings. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on citizenship]] Registration number 5318. The rapporteur is Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Igor Volodymyrovic Popov. Correspondent is the head of the Human Rights Committee subcommittee, the national minorities, the inter-national relations of Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u58	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! According to article 4 of the Ukrainian Constitution, there is only one citizen. In addition, so far, a large number of Ukrainian citizens have other nationalities at the same time as Ukrainian citizens. This has a negative impact on the interests of Ukraine's citizens abroad, the functioning of the Ukrainian authorities and the threat of national security. This situation is primarily due to the imperfections of Ukrainian legislation in this area, because of the gap in it. In this bill, I want to stop for a few moments. The first is the creation of a legislative framework that will prevent abuses in obtaining Ukrainian citizenship. The bill is then designed to improve the legislative mechanism, notably the warning of double civility cases by amending the laws of Ukraine in the areas of citizenship, public service, state secret, electoral law, judicial, military, law enforcement, and so on. The other one. In world practice, there are two approaches to preventing the problems of dual citizenship. The first and so - called penalty, built on defined dual citizenship as a crime that entails administrative responsibility. Another is built on the incentive to be a citizen of that country, not another country. These are primarily the rights of a citizen to diplomatic protection, to choose and to be elected to authorities and local self - government, to benefit from social benefits, to learn from government funds, and so forth. The policy of the head of state to solve the problems of dual citizenship is to provide favourable conditions for the exit of Ukrainian citizens from other states, not vice versa. Third. This is about the practical implementation of the provisions mentioned in the bill. It is suggested that citizens be obliged not only to declare their refusal to another nationality but to give their passport to another country within defined terms. The implementation of the law does not require additional expenditure from the budget. Please support the relevant bill, which will contribute to the maintenance of legislation and citizenship, and reduce the number of cases of dual citizenship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u59	Thank you, too. Yuri Vasilovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u60	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, this is what the President's bill is called for. The fact is, according to various estimates in Ukraine alone, there are over 50,000 people in Israel who have Ukrainian and Israeli passports. According to various accounts, some 20,000 Russian citizens in Sevastopol have Ukrainian passports. So this is a national security issue. What exactly, in short, characterizes this bill. Position one, the bill requires people who have received Ukrainian citizenship to return the passport of a foreign state to the authorized authorities of that State. And here are the grounds for the abolition of citizenship in such a case if this requirement is not met. The bill amends a number of laws of Ukraine which provide for restrictions on the employment of such persons who have two passports and who are in the citizenship or nationality of another State, or have obtained permission from another State to stay in its territory or have issued documents to leave for permanent residence outside Ukraine, thus applying the position of such citizens to be admitted to employment for certain services. I think it's about state security agencies, the Security Service, the militia, the responsible government posts, that's what this is all about. The committee considered the bill and decided to recommend it on its first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u61	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Please write it down for discussion. The Pavlovsky People's Deputy, the Timoshenko and Papuy factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Yulia Timoshenko suggests that the bill be supported in the first reading. He is clarifying some of the moments of acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship, exit from citizenship, and the question of if a person has dual citizenship. I think it's a necessary bill he's long overdue and should be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u63	The People's Deputy of Paris, the faction of Our People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u64	A boy named Andrew. Deputies! Unfortunately, we still do not have the issue of citizenship in Ukraine covered by legislation until the end. Ukraine’s legislation prohibits dual citizenship, while at the same time very complex mechanisms to identify who has dual citizenship. And there is no system of punishment for violations of Ukrainian legislation. So I'm convinced that today's initiative by President Viktor Yushchenk is very timely. And it actually allows us to produce at least a minimum mechanism -- to protect Ukraine from violating Ukrainian legislation for a large part of citizens. It is known that the issue of dual citizenship is not only a matter of such a domestic nature. The issue of dual citizenship is very often used politically by our opponents to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. This is what I want to remind you of the recent events in Crimea when mass passport distribution was detected for Ukrainian citizens of the Russian Federation. A similar situation takes place on the Romanian-Ukrainian border. And finally, I want to remind you that the very presence of two passports in the citizens of Ossetia has only recently led to the Russian Federation's invasion of the territory of the independent sovereign state of Georgia. So in order for Ukraine to avoid any shock on its borders, in order to lure any of our neighbours into temptation, to use a dual civilisation tool to suppress the situation in our country, to fuel international hostility, I think today, despite political preferences and political forces, we need to consolidate ourselves, and together to support and stand in the way of order, namely, this legislation in Ukraine, and to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u65	Honorable colleagues, who still insist on those who did not step out of the faction, were already part of the faction. There are no others who insist. Well, please, Sergey Taran, the lineup, or you didn't come out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just wanted to say, we're talking about getting our legislation, Ukrainian legislation to be adjusted according to European legislation. We're talking about the prospect of Ukrainian membership in the European Union and all that. And so we really have to adjust all our laws according to European legislation. It's an axiom against which, well no one has the right to deny. So there's only one example. In Germany, when people have another passport, they are forced to: (a) either declare or refuse, and they are not employed by government officials, they cannot serve in the police, they cannot serve in the army. This is European legislation. Similar legislation in the Netherlands, Poland, in other countries. If we want to be a civilized country, we have to act in a similar way. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on citizenship (registration number 5318). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:11:50]] For 225 Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Let's do it now, because Ukraine is torn apart by dual citizenship. I don't understand. We'll have to do this later. I'm betting on the vote on the return to the draft law. [[Registration number 5318]] Please vote. [[11:12:22]] For 232 We're back, 232, before the bill. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on citizenship. [[Registration number 5318]] [[11:12:51]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you and I address you, let us think not of our political positions there, but of the country. A draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens is being announced for consideration. [[on the right to bring citizens together to justice in the interests of its members]] [[Registration number 2551]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u68	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, “NU-NS” faction. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending article 20 of the Law on the Unification of Citizens. [[on the right to bring citizens together to justice in the interests of its members]] The bill was prepared in response to numerous appeals by public organizations with complaints, to ambiguous court practice in the matter of court admission to court for the purposes of citizens’ unification. The bill proposes to amend the Law on the Unification of Citizens with the aim of clarifying the provisions of article 20, which reinforces the rights of citizens to unite. It is suggested that the right of citizens to represent and defend their legitimate interests and legitimate interests in public and public bodies includes the right to appeal to the courts for the protection of the rights, freedoms and interests of their members. The imprecise wording of article 20, paragraph 3, of the Unification Act allows the courts, in one instance, to take action against the unification of citizens in the interests of their members for consideration, and in another to return external statements, referring to the fact that such a right has not been established in article 20. This does not contribute to the formation of a single court practice in this area and to the effective protection of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. It is noteworthy that these changes are primarily important for the protection of the rights of underprotected citizens, since civil society organizations that are created to protect the rights of the listed category of citizens are exempt from payment by a court of law, which a citizen is obliged to pay if it does not prove documentaryly that he is underprotective. This requires that citizens, including the disabled and the poor, make considerable effort and time to obtain the necessary information. The bill does not introduce any novelties into Ukrainian legislation, but it only specifies its position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u69	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u70	Therefore, its adoption will not require additional costs from the state budget. Taking into account the positive conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Committee, please support it in the first reading and in the absence of general comments as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u71	Thank you, too. Sergey Podgorny, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u72	Honourable voters, distinguished presidents, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 1, 2008 at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 20 of the Law on the Unification of Citizens of Ukraine (for the right of citizens to appeal to the Court for the benefit of its members, registration number 2511, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Boris Ivanović. People’s deputies also considered the findings of the bill, which came to the committee. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy reviewed the draft law and failed to find any provisions that would not be in line with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs has determined that the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to accept the bill as a basis. The members of the committee agreed that it was appropriate to amend article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens and to clarify that the right of registered associations to represent and defend their legitimate interests and legitimate interests of their members in public and public bodies also includes his right to appeal to the Court for the protection of the rights, freedoms and interests of his members. The Committee concluded that it would recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Unification of Citizens, to accept it as a basis. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the bill is based on the consideration of the Parliament, the Ukrainian National Deputies. [[Registration number 2511]] Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u73	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the address if you wish. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank National Deputy Tarasyuk. In principle, though, it is understandable. The Court is an authority of the State on which the exercise of justice is solely a function. But some courts see it as different, and that's why they're going to get rid of these citizens' calls. The national deputy Tarasyuk offered only a few words. [[In order for you to see what this is about, whether you need a second reading for this law, or not to conduct it at all.]] He proposes paragraph 3 of the Unification of Citizens Act to add the words “the authorities” to the words “including, to the court for the protection of the rights, freedoms and interests of its members”, of which all additions are complete. It's perfectly normal. It's a valid explanatory note. I have now heard a report from the committee saying that there will be no impact on the income part of the budget, it will definitely have this effect. It just can't be calculated right now, because they're going to be freed from paying court fees and some sums the state is going to lose, but that's something that needs to be clearly understood. But these aren't the sums that you can talk about, they're important, first. And secondly, they can't be calculated right now, because we don't know how many of these things are going to happen and they don't immediately count. They're just. You can figure that out after a while. So I'd like to say that when we say things like that, at least from this rostrum, we've clearly realized that they're going to be, but they're going to be cashiers -- that's the first time. And secondly, it's absolutely right that we allow these organizations to protect the interests of their members. Because they usually protect whom? They protect someone who can't protect himself. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to make sure that we adopt this law both in the first and second readings so that we don't get it confused among the bills. Because this is where all the language goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u75	Thank you. I understand your offer. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, who is still insisting on the factions who did not participate in the discussion? You don't? Dear colleagues, it is only about introducing one clarification into the law, or complementing it: “including seeking the protection of the rights, freedoms and interests of its members”. Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u76	Thank you. In fact, since the bill is so small, I think it is his problem. The immediate question is: To appeal to the court in defense of what interests? Private? For example, in matters of divorce, or in matters of inheritance? Or is it about not being included in the voter lists? Furthermore, “and by the commission of this citizen” they have the right to do so today. And without commission. Does the citizen want this organization to defend his rights without his desire? Maybe he doesn't want it at all, maybe he wants to protect them in another way? It seems to me that it is here that we may be able to make our way to hell with good intentions. And there will be involvement of public organizations in the private affairs of citizens without their desire. So I wouldn't be in such a hurry to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u77	Yes, who is it? Taras Blackwall, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, just now Yuri Bogdanovich has focused on this, and I want to say the same thing, this bill, this thesis has been going on in the halls of Parliament in letters from a number of questionable social organizations called so-called. Personally, I was similarly asked to introduce such a bill, to register. I, after appreciating certain threats to this, refused to submit such a bill to registration, because it was precisely the fact that without agreement, essentially with a citizen who is a member of this public organization, without a clear legal status, a public organization could assume a role as a party to the legal process, to protect one's rights without such powers. And so even if he is voted in the first reading, and I ask him not to vote, I make my warning about the second reading and I ask him not to put it in general immediately on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Boris Tarasyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u80	Thank you. I want to say that I have several court rulings in my hands that refuse to accept applications from outside the citizens' union because they say that the law says "state institutions" and that the court does not refer to state institutions. That's the problem: in order to make the right treatment of this law, I'm asking you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote, a motion is put to the vote for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending article 20 of the Law on the Unification of Citizens (on the right of citizens to appeal to the court for the benefit of its members, registration number 2511. Please vote. [[11:24:34]] For 304 Decision taken. Since there has been a denial of a number of deputies, honourable national deputies cannot be placed in general. I mean, Yuri Klukkowski, Taras Crnowil. So it's... it's... I can put it to a vote. You don't have to, do you? Second reading. There are also objections to the reduced procedure. Dear National MPs, the draft Law on Technological Safety is under review. Registration number 3438. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valérie Calchenko. The correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Mikola Haritonovich Schershun. So the report and the report are four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, you have before you an extremely important draft of the Law on Technological Safety, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Calchenk Valeriy Mihajlovich. The purpose of adoption and the main task of the bill is the legislative definition of the basic principles of technological security, state oversight and expertise in the field of technological security. The bill defines terms relating to activities in the field of technological safety, such as accidents, halts, dangerous substances, and dangerous territory. It is also clearly defined as technological security. This is a state of protection for populations, territories, and objects from the negative effects of an extraordinary technological situation. An important article is the prediction of the state of technological security. It is not only the world’s but also our practice, which is better and cheaper to warn about an emergency than to eliminate its consequences, and what is most important is the preservation of people’s lives. The bill clearly defines the system of state administration in the field of technology security, the authority and responsibility of central and local executive authorities. Also defined are the rights and facilities of the owners. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having made a number of valid comments and made a number of suggestions, suggests that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The Committee on Budget Affairs expressed the view of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine that the bill would have an impact on the spending of the State and local budgets. According to the Committee on Environmental Policy, the implementation of the bill does not require additional material and other expenditures from the State and local budgets. This is due to the fact that all possible costs of providing technological security for industrial objects will be borne by the owners of these objects. The Ministry of Emergency Situations generally supports the adoption of the bill. Today, the Ministry of Emergency Situations is preparing a draft code for the protection of populations and territories from emergencies. In support of the adoption of such a code, Ukrainian national deputies, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy believe that if the draft Law on Technological Safety is adopted, its position can then be entered into the Code. Therefore, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 3438 as the basis for the first reading. Please support the decision of the profile committee and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u83	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. People's deputy Shiyanov, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, then Sergey Ribuk. Please, the microphone. From the rostrum then. You can leave the rostrum if something doesn't work. What's wrong? None. Sergey Rybuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, really, I confirm, as Mikola Haritonovich said, is an extremely important bill. I hope it will become the law of Ukraine, but I want to draw your attention to the fact that such a law is not going to change the law, we can't just consider the reduced procedure. Moreover, very little has been considered by other committees when it has been considered only by a professional committee. This project deserves to be committee hearings of no committee. That is, we must approach, taking into account the vital importance of the issue and the problems for Ukraine in general, much more seriously and work on this bill. I wonder if even in the first reading, since they have read the comments of the legal services, they ask many questions as a big question mark. Moreover, this law must determine the general legal, economic, organizational, safety and environmental aspects of life - and - health security. So I would urge him not to be looked at or looked at in the second reading. But my presentation draws attention to the fact that we can't so quickly, suddenly and adamantly, sorry, even consider and adopt such a complex and decisive law as is in the proposed edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u85	Honorable national MPs who insist on the faction that they did not participate in the discussion. Olga Bodnar, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, thank you. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. I encourage everyone to pay attention to the number 3438 that we are currently looking at. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that he was registered on December 9, 2008. So there was more than enough time for those who wanted, even more than a year, to get to know the bill in question that was on the profile committee. I have great respect and respect for the qualifications of all members of the committee, and also taking into account the importance of this bill for Ukraine, because we have mass technological points where there is a great danger of what is going to be an explosion and maybe it will be even more harmful than the Chernobyl that we had. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill by supporting the concept. Because there was no observation by the Scientific and Experimental Authority regarding the concept of this bill, i.e. the concept of bills was correctly established.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u87	Yes, the honourable people's deputies, the bill is closed. The committee's decision, more specifically the committee's proposal: to adopt bill registration number 3438. There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on Technological Safety, the registration number, I reiterate 3438. Please vote. [[11:33:12]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the regulation of public property management processes]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The practice of applying legislation on the administration of public property objects, in particular the implementation of individual regulations adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21.09.2006 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property objects, shows that a number of its rules have significant shortcomings and inconsistencies with the applicable legislation in part of its application. The bill, introduced by me and Ukraine’s national deputy Osik Sergey Grigorovitch, is aimed at settling existing differences in legislation regarding the administration of public property and improving the efficiency of government property management. A few words about the bill. The project amends the current Economic Code and the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. Its position is clearly defined by the economic structures that are subject to the administration of public property, by the authority of entities such as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the authorized authorities, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine. The amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Lordship provide for the definition of the concept of “State Shareholders’ Associations” and lays down provisions on relations relating to the administration of corporate rights of the State, are governed by the Ukrainian Act on the administration of property rights, other laws and regulations adopted in accordance with them. The Management Act is complemented by the implementation by the central executive body of economics, monitoring and analysis of the efficiency of government property management, which ensures that the management of public property, including corporate rights, is monitored. In general, the bill regulates the management of state property and provides a comprehensive legislative basis for the administration of public property. I'm reporting from the committee, both as the author. I, as the author and from the committee, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u89	Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u90	Yeah. The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 18 February 2009 considered a bill, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this bill can be adopted in the first reading. I want to remind you that this bill was tabled by the government in due course and was not supported on the basis that there were so many observations by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Osika and I, as the authors, have taken all the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration into account, have introduced the text of the bill. So I have from the authors and from the committee a great request to support this bill, it is very important to improve the efficiency of ownership management and its preservation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u92	Dear Head, the honourable national deputies, regardless of such interest in this law, there are two essential points. First remark. Drafting of the draft sub-paragraph “g” in paragraph 18 of the first part of article 2 of the Act provides for the granting of the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the competitive order for the selection of managers of economic operators without considering that a particular sector of the economy is subject to shareholding societies, whose state share in the statutory fund exceeds 50 per cent but less than 60 per cent. The second major point. The proposed edition of paragraph 141, which complements part one of article 6 of the Law, is in particular contrary to article 159 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, since the authorities of the Shareholder Society are chosen rather than appointed. However, the existence of certain appointed representatives of the State in the administrations of nonmember households is not provided for by law. So, in our opinion, the project aims to create preconditions for the introduction of manual management by the Cabinet of Ministers of enterprises in which there is any state-owned area. In view of these positions, both first and second, we feel that the law should be amended for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, who else insists on the factions that have not spoken? None. A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the regulation of public property management processes]] [[Registration number 4060]] Please vote. [[11:39:18]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4060]] [[11:39:41]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear National MPs, the draft Act on the suspension of the individual provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare is proposed for consideration. [[on the harmonization of normative acts in the preparation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Barwinenko Vitali Dmitrovitch, co-rapporteur – Secretary of the Health Committee Grigorovitch Lilia Stepanovna. Is there Lila Stepanovna Grigorovich? Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! With regard to the proposed bill on the suspension of certain provisions of the Health and Epidemic Welfare Act, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP, Barwinenko, I would like to mention the following. [[Registration number 5194]] The committee has considered the proposals, and I would like to inform you, Mr. President, that the National MP, Mr. Nenco, is proposing a final part of the 2012 European Championship in football to suspend the action of paragraphs 4 and 5 of the first section of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare, which deals with the protection of the population against the harmful effects of noise. Honorary colleagues, according to these points, are obliged to take measures to prevent excesses of safe levels of noise in food, trade, household services, entertainment and other facilities within the population. The proposed changes violate the constitutional right of citizens to sanitary and epidemiological well-being, to safe living and health conditions of work, rest and environment. The committee considers it unacceptable to take measures that even temporarily undermine the legal guarantees of human health. And literally a little bit about European experience. You know that similar international sports competitions are taking place in various European countries. Please tell me, has one of Europe’s countries weakened public health measures? No, it's not. Is Poland going to do something like that? No, it's not. Obviously, we should not follow such standards even for a short time. Finally, the same position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u95	Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u96	The same position as that of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u97	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Dinner, please, microphone. Or from the rostrum, as you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to touch upon such a question that, in principle, today, this law does not work for one reason: because in Europe, after every game, people drive cars, signal, whistle. Today, this law does not work. Although this law is generally good, it is positive. Therefore, we do not need to pay much attention to him today, and we need to live by the principles that exist today. We have the law, and this law is now using commercial structures that are for commercial purposes for citizens to write letters to casinos, to cafes, to restaurants, to stadiums, to prevent citizens from making this noise. Therefore, there is no need for this law to be adopted today. We need to live by the law that we live by today and not pay much attention to it. In all the countries of Europe, I confirm and support Grigorović's deputy, they drive, they signal after the match. People live normally without attention, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u99	Pavlovsky People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the faction of Yulia Timoshenko supports a committee of profile, our Chief Analytical Authority, that this bill cannot possibly be accepted. Because he's offering? Let's read it. He proposes to remove the obligations of local authorities, to provide sanitary standards that are basic to noise, and to allow, allow, allow, in accommodations, food facilities, various entertainment facilities, practically, under the brand Euro - 2012 to smother the decibels of citizens all day long, and this damages the comfort of life, the well - being of our citizens. I think this, here the references were to Europe, which is a completely anti-European law, a lobbyist, clearly, for which lobbyist structures. So it can't be supported in any way, and the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko suggests that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u101	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u102	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” I think this bill, 5194, is about suspending the individual rules of the Sanitary Epidemics Act, just like no one else does. This law needs to be rejected, because the Lobby Law is essentially a clear position of the committee, as well as of the Ministry of Health, the country's chief health doctor, and the people who signed up for discussion. So please, and we will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u103	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to hear the position of the BUT faction that it will not support this bill. Because I remind those who have forgotten or do not remember that the bill is written by a representative of the BUT faction. And you're absolutely right, everyone who's speaking is talking about the first one who gives an assessment of this bill, that it's basically a lobbyist bill, a completely lobbyist bill that advocates the interests of restaurant owners, bars, cafes, night cabarets and so on and so forth. This bill has absolutely nothing to do with Euro-12 or European standards. Let me see one of the authors, at least the author of one of the European states, who could have allowed similar norms in the form of what the Euro is, pre-euro, and so on and so forth. And I'm very glad that the vast majority of the colleagues who have spoken have participated in this bill, very clearly, are balanced in their position as a committee of profile, which logically proposes to reject and not support this bill. One more time and one more time. With good intentions about what he was saying, we're going to do the same thing, if we're going to make noises, whistles, shouts, cheers, entertain tourists under the Euro-12, it doesn't matter at all. Those who love football will come to our beautiful country and suffer. And I'd like to hope, let's hope that our Ukrainian team will play in the final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, even in Antarctica, cannot pass such a law because penguins, sea cats, will be offended, and they will be destroyed. It is clear that such a bill would have to be called “On measures to increase mortality among the population of Ukraine”. I'll remind you how we've adopted changes to the law and the Noisy Protection Act, when citizens living in Odessa, citizens living in Kiev, other cities that have suffered from the noise of those and discotheques, from the gaming business and everything else, and now we want to take it all back. That is why I agree with the assessment given by the committee given by the people's deputies who are now speaking, and I believe that for this bill there should be zero votes on the table. Because I hope that we have convinced even a respected author that this law cannot be passed. You just can't. He should have been called off, realizing that he was harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u107	Taras Chernobyl, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u108	I am. Dear colleagues, I want to motivate the inadmissibility of adopting this law with two nuances. The first, however, brought to the world's standards, and I was able to just see how citizens' rights to normal sanitation are being protected, and so on in certain cities where the Euro has been held over the past years: fan zones, restaurants and everything, working, resting people in stadiums, resting zones, but restrictions, installation that exist, are not being violated. There may be some minor deviations there, but it is not acceptable to cancel them. This was not done in any country of the world where major sports competitions took place. And secondly, we know very well that the temporary is becoming permanent: in 2005, you will recall that the visa regime for foreigners under the Eurovision was cancelled. And then it went into a constant. The same is true here: the law is the law, and the sanitary standards, which will be adopted temporarily, will be quietly in the cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been discussed. The committee's proposal is to reject. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law on the suspension of the individual provisions of the Act on the provision of sanitary and epidemiological welfare, registration number 5194, please be determined. [[on the harmonization of normative acts in the preparation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship]] [[11:51:48]] For-0 This is a unique phenomenon in the Supreme Council. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the rights and opportunities of women and men in the electoral process is being announced for consideration. I'm asking and I'm proposing that, honourable colleagues, consider this bill, and then there will be a break. There is a very important bill for you to be members of the session room. The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Helen Fedorovna Bondarenko. Four minutes, considering that the reporter from the committee is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Sir, your head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending and supplementing certain laws of Ukraine to ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men in the electoral process. The bill proposes to amend three existing laws, including the equal rights and opportunities of women and men, the election of Ukrainian national deputies and the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village councils, village, city heads. The substance of the proposed changes is to supplement the individual articles of the laws mentioned with the inclusion in each five electoral lists of candidates for the Ukrainian National Deputies and candidates for the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local councils of both women and men. The issue of equal opportunities for women and men is given special attention by the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the United Nations and other European and global structures. In Ukraine, I recall the adoption of a law on the equal rights and opportunities of women and men, and in December 2006 Parliamentary hearings were held in the wake of this law, which in fact stated in their recommendations the need for the adoption of such a bill. This bill, co-authored by Mikola Tomenko, Elena Bondarenko and Oksana Bilozuz, took place in 2006, and was actually a kind of test of European democratic choice. I want to remind you that this bill was voted in favour of the Yulia Timoshenko faction and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the rest of the deputies did not vote for it. Among them was a faction whose leader today claimed to be a woman in the kitchen. This bill, which we pass with Mikola Tomenko, takes into account the world's existing experience of equal representation in parliaments, contributes to the development of democratic processes in society and the achievement of truly equal opportunities for women and men. In advance of your possible warnings, I would like to point out that if electoral legislation changes take place in the public elections, the proposed mechanism for ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men in the electoral process can be adjusted. In particular, by establishing a position in electoral legislation that ensures a certain level of representation of the two articles among the nominated parties. At the same time, it is important that we are already establishing an important ideology for the formation of parity democracy in Ukraine and that we are making a truly European democratic choice in this direction. The Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government support the adoption of the bill as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the first reading of the bill may be based on the basis of the proposals made. Thus, the Committee's conclusion on human rights, national minorities and international relations, by the way, was reviewed by the bill on February 6, 2008. The conclusion is to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law amending and supplementing certain Ukrainian laws on the equal rights and opportunities of women and men in the electoral process, introduced by the People's Deputies Tomenko and Bondarenko, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u112	Vladimir Bondarenko. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." During my time in Sweden with the delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament, I read two very interesting bills. One of them is anti-segregational, which prevents people from settling in one nation in large cities and creating these kind of ghettos. And the second is even more interesting, which balances women's participation, ensures women's parity in governance at different businesses, including in government institutions, if there is a man, then all women's deputies, if a woman is a man's deputy. I note that there are 28 professions out there that are classified as harmful and women there are not allowed to work because of their harmfulness. At the same time, the very prestigious professions that enable women to earn more money give women up to 70 percent and more – teachers and some other professions. Ukraine should therefore approach Europe. And in this part of the proposals made in this bill, they have to be absolutely supported. Because putting a woman's role in some kitchen business, as this has been said lately, is completely inadequate to those processes that are taking place in a civilized world. A woman, in addition to taking up much of her time and raising a child, has to have an adequate response from society in order to grow up professionally, so that she can catch up to a man in her own growth in any direction of activity. So I would like to point out that the non-adoption of this law will testify to the lack of accountability of Ukrainian politicians. And so I ask you to think about it, and today in the hall, you'll have to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u113	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The problem of resolving the bill has long been in the spotlight of the European international organizations of which Ukraine is a member. So it is absolutely necessary to look for ways out in this direction. The main problem here is how to ensure equal representation of both articles in the electoral lists, without violating the constitutional rule on equality before the law. It's not a simple problem. I would like to remind you that the French had to make changes to the Constitution. It seems to me that the wording contained in the proposed bill is well balanced in terms of its constitutionality. And that's why this bill needs to be supported in the first reading. Yet it does not solve the problem when elections are held in one - mandating districts. And that's why we're going to have to work on it in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u115	Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u116	Dear national MPs, colleagues and drafters of the bill, I have great respect for you. But what I'm trying to say is that I think this problem is a little bit of an artificially elevated for you, I don't understand. I think it has to be done naturally. And I want to point out that there are more women in Parliament right now than there were in the majority system. I don't think we need to support this bill. At best, it needs to be sent to work, not to do certain artificial things. Moreover, women are energetic, powerful, and they are always pierced even by the opposition of men. I say that as a member of a party whose leader is a bright and powerful woman. So I propose not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u117	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Mikola Tomenko, microphone, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out to the co-author of this bill that we are working with you today in Parliament, where the entire history of the Soviet Supreme Council and the history of Ukraine's independence is the smallest number of women, 8 percent. I don't know any European Parliament where such representation is. And who works with our colleagues from Europe and other countries, not just European countries, for them, is a surprise, to say the least, that, as our tradition of democracy and tolerance has led to a situation where closed party lists have caused, perhaps, the rejection of parties of those, for example, active, energetic, professional women, who should be working not only in Parliament but also in the system of public authorities. So this one before the warning or this principle that we have with Olena Bondarenko, it must lead to the first step. The language says that the maximum number will be here, at least 20 percent, which has practically been implemented in our Parliament more than once. I understand that there is a problem with one-manded districts; there is a problem when we manage electoral legislation, but I see it as an understanding by the Ukrainian Parliament that we are a nation in Europe that builds a system of legislation and a system of power in the system of European legislation and our Ukrainian culture, where the status of women has always been defined as independent and extremely important. So I'm surprised to hear some lines that were made during the election campaign, and I think they're replicas of the Middle Ages. We're kind of in the 21st century. So I would ask everyone to act in harmony with the 21st century and support, either way, in the first reading, and then we'll work and think about how to address this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a basis. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the rights and capabilities of women and men in the electoral process]] [[Registration number 1232]] Please vote in favour. I'll take off my last words so I don't get too excited. [[12:03:49]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 122, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 44, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 20, “Afterfractional” – 1. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the proposal to send the bill for re-reading so as not to burn it. Please vote. Let's do it again. Please vote. [[12:04:31]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u120	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act is being announced. [[on the extension of the law to coal miners]] Registration number 4314. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! On September 2, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on Enhancing the Presence of Mining Work, which extends to coal, iron ore, ore and rare metals, marganic and uranium ore, mining workers who are engaged in underground work full-time, But what wasn't taken into account was that there were veteran miners who were working in mining mines at the time, namely gypsy, dolomite, mercury, salt, polyminerals, also miners working in stainless mines at the time. The working conditions of non-mine miners differ from that of coal miners and mining miners, except for heavy manual work, because the production, for example, of dolomite is carried out by a drill-drilling method with further manual loading on linear scaffolds. The substance of the bill, which is being submitted for consideration, is the need to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of the Prosperity of Mining, which would clearly determine that the act of the Act is also extended to coal miners of non-fertilized and waste crops, who have been or are producing beneficial fossils underground, that they are also included in list 1 and have the right to receive a pension. The adoption of the bill will relieve tensions in mining areas, allow young professionals to be employed in mining companies, and increase the level of material security for workers in the field. The Scientific and Experimental Authority recommended the adoption of the bill. In addition, I'd like to say that to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u122	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u123	I was approached by the miners of the Lviv district, by the miners Stebnik and Novo. The Volin region is requested to submit such a bill. Therefore, I hope that the people's deputies will support the demands and requests of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, who will be speaking from the committee? The committee's decision is, the committee has considered. I'll read the committee's position here. A draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Work Act is included in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 December 2009. [[on the extension of the law to coal miners]] In view of the fact that the implementation of the bill would affect the income part of the budget and could balance local budgets, the committee asked the author of the legislative initiative to provide financial and economic justification for the bill. The same position was expressed by the government in its conclusion. After receiving such a statement from the author, the committee will be ready to consider the bill and make an appropriate draft regulation. At the same time, honourable national deputies, taking into account the fact that the bill is under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 02.04.2009, we have every reason to consider it and determine its decision-making. This is not the position of an objective committee. So please sign up for this bill. And invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can make a decision. Please record for the performance. National MP Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, please. And then there's Killinkar's Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u125	Thank you. You know, we really need to thank the reporter and the author of this bill, a very important question. And we as parliamentarians can't stand apart from such drafts, but, you know, I'm looking at it, and I'd like to ask the author to do so, maybe, because the government has taken such a position, not for the benefit of the miners, and the committees have made such proposals. I think this bill is entitled to all the chances of life, and I think the Supreme Council is going to do it. But I'm hoping that without knowing it today, maybe my request is that we return it in about a month, but that this law is really well-designed and actually benefits miners and Ukraine as a whole. I am convinced that such bills should continue to be adopted and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u126	National MP Kallinkarov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u127	I would also like to add to this statement that the idea of amending the Mining Labour Authority Act is precisely the interests of those who represent this category. And I want to say that there are social organizations on the ground today, the Union of Regressor Veterans, which, including those that raise these issues. I personally met with the Minister of the Coal Industry, who also promised to facilitate the introduction, and supported the idea of expanding these rights to all miners. I therefore think that the sessional room should support these amendments to the law and we must adopt them as a whole. This is what miners need most today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Who insists on the performance? From the factions, please, Mikoli Kravchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the following point: Appendix three to the State Budget 2009 Act provides funding for budget programmes by code; I will not call the number, on the pension provision of full-time employees and their families. So I don't need to do any financial evidence or calculations. The second is that of two or two or two thousand veteran miners who work. This is therefore the pitiful amount that can be found in sub-heading three of the State Budget Act 2009. It should automatically shift to a separate line in the 2010 budget. It is therefore timely to accept this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? None. I ask you to prepare for the vote. A draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act is submitted for your consideration to be adopted as a basis. [[on the extension of the law to coal miners]] [[Registration number 4314]] Please vote. [[12:50:06]] For 248 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2607]] Reporter: Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretović, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, Julia Volodymyrovna Novikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u131	Volodymyr Stretovic. The Party of the Christian Democratic Union, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, the need to adopt this law is linked to the need to improve some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice in order to prevent their application and abuse. The practice of applying the Code of Administrative Justice has revealed some problems identified by the rights to be dealt with by its rules in regulating the jurisdiction of the issuing of a court decision. The bill consists of two chapters, the first of which contains nine paragraphs, provides for amendments to nine articles of the Code of Administrative Justice, and the second contains final and transitional positions. Amendments to article 17 of the CAS propose not to narrow down the list of disputes arising with respect to administrative contracts to administrative jurisdiction. Today, unfortunately, attempts are made to interpret the term of the dispute concerning the conclusion of administrative contracts, amendments to articles 18 and 171 of this Code proposed disputes, namely: the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, refer to the substantive jurisdiction in the first instance to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. [[on the prosecution of sub-legislative acts of the highest authorities]] This will speed up the final settlement of such disputes, the possibility of a two-institudinal review of the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice being able to be accused under exceptional circumstances without violating the right to challenge judicial decisions. Since these matters are primarily related to the exercise of standard - control, which does not require the identification of many circumstances. The amendments to article 19 of the Code propose that the rules of the territorial jurisdiction of administrative matters be improved, including that disputes over decisions on the action or omission of the subject of the authority relating to immovable property should be decided by the administrative courts at the location of the property itself. This approach will prevent disputes over one object of real estate from being handled by different courts in different territories. Also, the question of the defendant’s case has been resolved when there is no place to live, no place to stay, no place to stay in Ukraine. Amendments to the 21 article of the Code extend the scope of the requirement that the public-law dispute may be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u132	Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u133	in one instance, in one court, all disputes that resulted in decisions on the action or omission of the subject of authority. In addition, rules have been laid down for determining a competent court for the settlement of a dispute if the requirements of a court are related to different administrative courts. Our belief in the law will enable us to solve a number of problems in the practice of administrative justice, such as reducing opportunities for abuse of corruption, to facilitate access to justice in disputes arising from the activities of the authorities. This should be positive for the efficiency of justice and the authority of the administrative courts. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u134	Thank you, too. New York's Julia Volodymyrna, head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u135	On December 24, the bill was considered by the Justice Committee. The committee also considered the conclusions that were given: the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ministry of Justice, the scientific institutions. Everyone has heard about the advantages of this bill from the author. I'm not going to stop at this, really, I'm going to say that the purpose of the bill is to improve administrative justice and to establish a more precise jurisdiction. However, I want to point out that there are some shortcomings in this bill. In particular, it is not possible to send a copy of the court’s decision to the person involved, but she was not present at the court’s hearing. This is contrary to article 13 of the CASU, which guarantees the right to appeal and appeal against an administrative court’s decision to those who have not taken part in the case if the court has decided on the issue of their rights and freedoms. Another flaw. It is envisaged that the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine may be challenged, only under exceptional circumstances, by the court of the first instance. However, this contradicts articles 236, 237 of the SASU, which provide for the possibility of acquittal under exceptional circumstances only after being examined in a cassational order. I understand why the author proposes this, but such contradictions need to be settled. In addition, it is proposed to extend the possibility of accusing decisions of the active inaction of the authorities at the location of a legal person who is a financially able participant in legal relations, which may lead to an increase in the cost of the state budget. Also, many disputes were raised by the proposal to increase the competence of the administrative courts, to expand it by considering private matters concerning immovable property and land to be dealt with in the order of household or civil litigation. This was the case with the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u137	One way or another. Despite comments, the Committee on Justice decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u138	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. There are no people who want to discuss the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill should be adopted because it is intended to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And I would also like to highlight topics that, unfortunately, have not been explained today by the author of the Stretovic bill, which I thank for introducing this bill, nor by the committee. In particular, the point is that a number of changes that normalize, which are proposed to normalize activities, including the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights and the prosecutor, who are to make representations of the interests of a citizen or state before a court, are being made here. In particular, the amendments to article 61, paragraph 4, stipulates that the prosecutor, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Human Rights Commissioner, regardless of their involvement in the case, is entitled to consult the material of the case in the administration in order to determine whether there are grounds for an appeal or a complaint of appeal, under exceptional circumstances, to review the decision under the new circumstances. It is also essential to amend article 167, which requires a person to take part in the case to be ordered or approved immediately after the court has been declared. And if those who take part in the case have not expressed concern about providing copies of the court’s judgment, then such copies are sent by the court within three days of the announcement and after the full scope of the rulings. This would help to protect people’s interests. The other question is that we don't have all of these things funded in the courts today, including no envelopes and all the costs. I propose to adopt this bill now, it's apolitical, it's aimed at protecting the rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u140	Honourable National Deputies are put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice. [[Registration number 2607]] Please vote. [[12:58:53]] For 104 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 2607]] [[12:59:17]] For 135 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[Registration number 2607]] The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 95, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 21, Communist faction – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 0. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families is being considered. [[on aid at minimum of living]] [[Registration number 1416]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, co-rapporteur – co-chair of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, a very important bill has been put forward for your consideration, which is about to be passed on to low-income families. The history of this bill shows the anti-national essence of an active government. Why? Because since 2008, as this bill has been submitted, the Timoshenko government has done its utmost not to be considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why? Because this law just applies to more than 100,000 Ukrainian families that are underfunded. At the time, the government introduced such an indicator as the minimum level of subsistence, although the Ukrainian Constitution established that social assistance should not be lower than the minimum of living. And I'm grateful that we're finally looking at this bill today. And that shows that the situation in Ukraine is changing, and it will, in the first place, lead to a change in the government that has done everything possible to prevent this bill from being considered. The bill proposes that the amount of assistance set for low - income families should be based on the minimum cost of living. And what I want to remind you is that the State Budget project that Timoshenko introduced set out: State social assistance for low-income families: for working people – 133 bracelets, invalids – 187 bracelets and for disabled people – 200 bracelets. And Timoshenko wanted our citizens to live for this money. We suggest that state aid be given to low - income families from a minimum of living. And this will contribute to the social protection of Ukrainian citizens, and this will bring us closer to social justice in society. I'm asking the Ukrainian people's deputies, especially the Butt, to support this bill and do what you haven't done in two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u142	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, since 2000, there has been a rule on state social standards, state social guarantees. Since then, an unconstitutional norm has been introduced: the level of housing provision for the minimum, depending on the state budget. That's why it turned out that in 2008, in 2009, the Timoshenko government set up, for example, for a mother under the care of a child under 3 years of age 19 percent of the living minimum, i.e. instead of paying 557 dollars, they pay 130 dollars. So it was no accident that lawsuits, a Committee of Deceptive Mothers, and so forth began all over Ukraine. [[It's been two years.]] In addition, this surrogate was considered in 2007 for the submission of our political power to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has overturned the concept of a minimum level of subsistence. There's one rule: subsistence minimum. And this subsistence minimum refers to helping families with children, helping people with disabilities, helping them to pay their pensions, and much more. Therefore, our political power, consistently carrying out its obligations to our electorate by living up to the promise of our candidate to the Presidents of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, proposes that there be one norm: that all social benefits correspond to the subsistence minimum for the relevant social demographic groups, this will also be in line with our Constitution. So, by a majority of votes, I emphasize, we didn't vote in favour of this part that's in the BUITE, in our social committee, and we were asked to consider this rule and to really insert that all social benefits correspond to the minimum of living. Of course, it requires spending from the government budget for this year -- a billion 800 million -- but that money will be found. Thus, mothers and children will receive normal supplements. Thus, the disabled will receive normal benefits, so that the minimum pensions will be considered from the subsistence minimum. Please, everyone. Who's in pain for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u144	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u145	I ask everyone who is in pain for the least protected levels of the population, especially for helping their mother and children with care, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Paul Sulkowski and Vizevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u147	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, I think that in all of us, in all of us who are hurting for the fate of Ukrainian citizens, today there is reason to thank the drafters of the bill for an extremely important bill, it is extremely correct both in time and in difficulty. The point is, really, the size of this payment has to be increased, because I'm stressing the name of the law itself: State social assistance, not beggary, but state social assistance. And secondly, there are problems with the timely receipt of this, this payment. More to the point, the faction of the Ukrainian Company not only supports this legislative initiative, but I want to say that we need to look at the problem a little bit wider. What do I mean? I mean, in the law on the state budget of Ukraine, there is such a concept as the so-called, guaranteed subsistence minimum. It's been going on ever since when even the size of the pension was quite distant from the minimum of living. This has been the practice of setting the amount of social benefits that guarantee absolutely nothing, that cannot survive a month, that cannot last a week. So we're still suggesting that we give up this practice, which is probably typical of the underdeveloped countries, when social benefits are set much less than the subsistence minimum. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will certainly support this bill. At the same time, we invite our colleagues together to think about giving up the indicator that means the so-called guaranteed subsistence minimum, which guarantees absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u148	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u149	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, I'd like to thank Michael Santa Claus Papiev. He was still a minister, from the beginning of the government, he developed extremely important draft laws that went, in fact, for the benefit of, in fact, such multi-child families, disadvantaged families and so on. You know, in the last two years, the policies of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, although I now believe there is nothing to criticize, that government should go immediately into the past and not abuse the people of Ukraine, especially the small families. You know, I was born to a 12-year-old in a family, the smallest, so it happened that Dad didn't happen, I wasn't two years old, and I got as rich as anyone in my life. And when today, when you go to Ukraine, in the county, in your home country, and when people come to the reception, you can't solve the basics on your own! How, though, could such finances be solved in a way that was unhappy? So I think it's just the day before the big project that we're going to be looking at, the budget for next year. This project today, which we vote for the law, is really going to be implemented by all 100 percent of it. And all families who are many, underprotective, will feel and will, in fact, live on much easier. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a deputy minister of finance came in the cabinet on another occasion. I mean, he's asking for words. He's only going to say that there's no such thing as two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u150	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u151	Thank you. And that's why I think that an employee of the Ministry of Finance is just a provoker, and he doesn't even have to give a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u152	Please, the microphone. Dear colleagues, I ask you to refrain from saying non-parliamentary words. National Deputy Vladimir Viezowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u153	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. Why I signed up against it. Not because I'm voting against it. As with the committees, I supported the bill, because, in fact, the rule that is defined in this law as the level of security can be seen as the level of security that it can provide to the poor. I would like to be determined, not by authority, but by law. And this is the same standard as the subsistence minimum defined by parliamentarians and is determined annually, as provided for in the Budget Code. So it's only fair that this rule should be brought into line with the current budget code that I understand that the funds, as always, the authorities will say are not enough for these things. But I'd like to say the next thing. Especially at a time when the State is in some crisis, it is the State itself, as the principal guarantor of minimum social standards, that should place the shoulders of the least protected, which are clearly extended to families and the Law that we are currently considering, on State social assistance for low-income families. Therefore, it is clearly necessary to vote in favour of this bill, because we are looking forward to the adoption of the 2010 budget, and this rule would already reflect in its entirety the position of the government, namely Parliament, on this rule, so I propose to vote in favour of this bill, and I would like to point out to my colleague, Alexander Mikolayovich, when you report this bill from the committee, that I ask you to stick to the Rules and report it to the committee, not to turn the rostrum into an electoral campaign that has already come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u154	Thank you. Vladimir Matviychuk is deputy minister of finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u155	Dear National Deputies! In view of the National MP's remarks, whether it's not enough or not, I'd like to point out the following. I won't tell you if there's enough money. I want to lead you to know that when you make decisions, it's not hard to understand that more than 200,000 citizens today are receiving this help. At the height. With the right to help at 744 bracelets operating in December and operating in January, this assistance will be granted to a million families in Ukraine. If you multiply it by aid, it's over 11 billion dollars a year. You know, I don't run the state, 11 billion dollars will have to be included in the 2010 budget. So I ask you, when you vote, count another such thing. When the worker gets the minimum wage and when this aid is paid at the minimum wage level, I think it's socially unfair. And I told you, I told you, 11 billion dollars is no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u156	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone, please
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u157	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. This law went according to the regulations and passed its course and reached the hall. Therefore, we should not say that someone held his hands. But this law is colored by this populism and by the growing social demands on the government of Yulia Timoshenko, which has been characterized by all government activity and all opposition activities for this period. Today we have to consider that there are real things, there are not real things, we can support this law, but there are. Minister Vladimir Matviychuk said it would cost 11 billion. Today, much is said about who will come, how the order will guide, how all taxes for five years will be abolished for business and so forth. Let's be objective, let's support this law, and in six months we'll ask the poor's mothers, and so on, if they're getting that money. We'd like to double the average wage, for example, we'd support -- we'd support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. [[on aid at minimum of living]] [[Registration number 1416]] Please vote. [[13:14:51]] For 330. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to put to the vote in general. Alexander Stoyan's microphone, please. So let's put it to a general vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I understand the joy of BUT, they also understand that this law requires great financial costs, they haven't done their time, we will. But there were observations by the Ministry, by the professions of observation, by individual deputies. I ask him to put it on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law as a law. [[Registration number 1416]] [[13:15:59]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please. Region Party Two, Timoshenko Yulia Block 125, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense 31, Communist 26, Litvina Block 19, non-fractional 0. Dear colleagues! A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on ensuring effective control of compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial is under consideration. [[Registration number 5254]] Dear colleagues! It might be possible to do so: to put this proposal to the vote with the commission of the committee to prepare for the next plenary week. This bill. Is there no objection? I am referring to the bill that we have just voted on, namely the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance to low-income families. To entrust the committee with what is a sensitive subject and we need to make a final determination before adopting the budget to rework the second reading under the reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:17:40]] For 302 Decision taken. I ask the committee to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its consideration next Tuesday. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on ensuring effective control of compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial is under consideration. [[Registration number 5254]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Borisovich Shevchuk. He is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Mikhailo Mikolayovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This law is designed to reduce the costs of unwarranted hospitals that we all know today how often they appear, and accordingly the costs that all employers today bear. Because I would like to remind everyone that the first five days are paid by the hospital’s employers, another is paid by the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment. And this law has essentially economic grounds for its adoption, it was unanimously accepted by all the members of the committee from all the parties that are on our committee. And we thought he would be clearly and unanimously supported in the hall. But as far as I know, this morning there was a change of heart in the Party of Regions. So in order not to lose the work that is in the process of doing this law, I would suggest that we withdraw it in order to seek further consensus on this issue. Relate its consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u162	I was then forced to put to the vote on adjournment. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports, then yes, if not, we will have to consider this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal of the author of the bill, I am voting on the postponement of the review of Law 5254. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:56]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Please. What do you want me to do again? I am voting on the motion to return to the vote on the postponement of the draft law. [[Registration number 5254]] [[13:20:27]] For 245 The solution. Oh, no, we're back. And now, honourable national MPs, I put to the vote to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 5254]] [[13:20:56]] For 266 Decision taken. The draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On urgent measures to preserve the integrity of the healing complex of the Ukrainian Children's Hospital "OHMATDIT" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5037]] The rapporteur is Head of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachtiev Health Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u163	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, your attention is drawn to the draft resolution I have prepared to amend the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to preserve the integrity of the medical complex of the Ukrainian children's specialized hospital, OHMATDIT. I recall that the decree was adopted on 31 May 2005, and 337 people's deputies voted in favour to preserve the integrity of the treatment complex of the Ohmatdet Children's Hospital and to avoid the raids that took place in relation to the treatment facility at that time. I would like to inform you that in 2008, the OHMATDIT Children's Hospital was granted national status. To date, this is the only treatment facility in the country that can provide high-quality medical care to children under the age of 18 and under, 620 beds, 750 shift visits. There are 18 colleges of higher education institutions and research institutes in the hospital. Despite this, like all of our medicine, it is funded on a residual basis, and only 2 million bracelets allocated for the acquisition of equipment in 2009 are extremely insufficient, with a minimum need of 30 million bracelets. The situation in OHMATDIT is also compounded by staffing problems, which have also been addressed by my ruling, by a change of order. To date, only 75 per cent of medical personnel are staffed with doctors and 74 are medical personnel, especially in the case of very complex personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u164	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u165	Thank you. As the center of child oncohematology, bone marrow transplantation, resuscitation, as well as the surgery of newborns and the advisory and diagnostic polyclinics, which are very important to our country as a whole. That is why we need to add another 11 million bracelets in 2010, which is very important to the preservation of our very important hospital. Well, even more important — this is the provision of the draft regulation — is the authorization to rent hospital premises for enterprises and institutions that are directly involved in ensuring the viability of the hospital. They can be pharmacies and cafes and many other laboratories, scientific centers. So I remind you again that whenever election campaigns begin, everyone promises to help medicine and, of course, children's hospitals. But she's the only one. I think she's the pride of medicine today. And I ask the People's Deputies to support, regardless of party affiliation. These are our children, this is our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u166	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for discussion? Please sign up. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u167	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, I'd really like to thank Aunt Dmitry. If it wasn't for this man, this facility would have been closed a long time ago. This is a few years of Tetjana Dmitrovna fighting through Parliament to protect him and to leave his unit intact so as not to break up or destroy him. And today I want to thank her very much for this and to say that, personally, I had to bring a few children with a very difficult condition and ask them to save me. And they are grateful that they gave life to these children. And today it's tens to tens of families who are grateful to these doctors at this facility today. And that's why I think we should vote today not only on this decree, Tetjana Dmitrovna. There is a request to you that you really take the accounts of this facility and we helped in this year in the budget to anticipate and create such conditions that, in fact, this facility worked not to be called National, but that all children of Ukraine feel that, indeed, it is a national institution that cares for our most expensive future Ukraine. Thank you and I urge you to vote for this facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we took this decision in May 2005 in a very difficult situation when it was prepared for the raiding of this particular institution. I would like to add by text: after the words “The Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine gives a mandate”, we have written down: “The foundation of the state property of Ukraine and the Kiev City Administration” because we know that we have only one body in Kiev — the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Administration. So you have to write them down right now, Auntie Dmitrovna. Otherwise there's no other body that's still alive, but let's speak plainly, and we forbid it, we're assigning the government. Let's write these down: the State Property Fund, the Kyiv City Council, the Kiev City Administration. And yet, I have doubts about the second point: allowing the rental of premises is not the norm of this regulation, it should just be removed from here. And where to allocate extra money is also not a rule of law. We have a determination to write: to predict the allocation of this kind of cost, eleven or twenty million dollars, we have to count. In paragraph two, giving the Ministry of Health a mandate, we take direct control of the Ministry of Health without realizing that we still have a government. So use it. It suggests that arrangements be made for the establishment of medical facilities for the needs. And this is where we put the point, because there we write "the path of the goal distribution of graduates of the National Medical University." What, though, about other medical institutions? What, they can't determine at the competition? Maybe you're just...
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u170	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I think that almost everyone present in the session room has something to do with the problem that we are looking at. It has either a direct attitude toward questions or requests that we receive from our constituents to help save the lives of a child from all over our country. It is very good that the Supreme Council is quite careful to take care of this complex, it is good that we have managed to preserve it by this time, to stand back, to apologize for the non-parliamentary word, from the “deriban” that predicted that it could lead to the fact that those premises and the territory in which this specialized medical facility is located could have gone to other needs long ago. Indeed, it was the Supreme Council of the Profile Committee’s initiative that did everything necessary to preserve it. I think that, despite the critical remarks that the series in the previous speaker may have, it is possible to edit it, it is legal editing of the document, but all the provisions of the draft decision must be adopted and requested. And don't ask, and we're taking the State Budget with you. We're going to adopt the budget for this year, let's kill 11 million of the target programme for OHMATDIT. We have the right to appeal to the Ministry of Health so that there can be a real purpose. No one forbids it from other medical institutions, but first of all, Kiev needs to have specialists sent there, and from the average medical staff, and all the other measures that this regulation provides for in order for a truly specialized medical facility to be saved for our state, for our future. I firmly believe that all of us will unanimously support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u172	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u173	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, treatment facilities such as OHMATDIT are national pride, and they are extremely important in the production of standards of medical practice. I know that at OHMATDIT, children are being sent away who have not been able to help in a variety of treatment facilities at a much lower level. So we're doing exactly what we're doing to support this facility. But at the same time, there is one very dangerous thing about this lease. If we do not limit the profile of the lease, such as pharmacies, and some grocery stores, so that the person who is being treated can buy, perhaps by playing casinos, bars, restaurants, and so on, because it will always be possible. Therefore, it is only by means of a profile of activities that such opportunities are to be made available. That's clear. I want to say that everyone was a witness in Kivu, as the endocrine dispenser in Pushkin was destroyed, so we don't have to take such steps to the city authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decision has been discussed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. May I have your attention, Your Honor? That is: on the basis of and as a whole of the draft decision to amend the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to preserve the integrity of the healing complex of the Ukrainian Children's Hospital "OHMATDIT" please vote. [[Registration number 5037]] [[13:32:57]] For 355 I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u175	What adjustments? Well, we said it was legal to do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft decree on the 75th anniversary of the founding of the National Botanical Garden of Grych, NAN Ukraine is being announced for consideration, right? 4458. The reporter is Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Science and Education's subcommittee, Teether Mikhajlo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u176	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! In September 2010, it is 75 years old from the founding of the National Botanical Garden of Grych of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. This garden has long been one of the few parks left in Kiev, where the Kyiv authorities are still uninhabited and are loved by both the Chinese and the city’s guests. And in fact, all of us, and I think, and in this room, all of us are in the garden at least once a year, we see that it needs state support. They need support as well as a unique rosary, like those communications networks that are there, and the heat system, and so I'm asking my fellow MPs to support the decision to mark the 75th thing since the founding of the National Botanical Garden and to give an appropriate mandate to the government to support one of the best botanical gardens in Ukraine and perhaps Europe. Of course, these issues are primarily to be considered by the mayor of our city, but unfortunately, we must note that today the city authorities are very negative about their work, supporting cultural institutions, supporting important objects such as our gardens and parks. Today, Ukrainian Supreme Council deputies have defended or not the last bookstore “Sivou”, which is captured by the raiding after the actions of our city authorities. I think today we can all support this decision and give the government a mandate to develop an appropriate and budgetary policy and appropriate support at the state level of the Botanical Garden so that the Chinese and the guests of the capital can be there in May during the flowering of the cheek, and thank us for protecting this unique object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u177	Thank you, too, Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u178	The Honourable Presidency, honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Science and Education reviewed the Supreme Council's draft decree on the 75th anniversary of the founding of the National Botanical Garden of Grych of the National Academy of Science and considered it relevant and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept this decision as a basis and as a whole. During its 75 - year existence, the National Botanical Garden of Grishka became one of the world’s largest botanical gardens, addressing complex issues of introduction, selection, and acclimatization of plants. The garden is a member of the International Council of Botanical Plant Protection Gardens, the International Plant Protection Organization of Europe, and heads the Council of Botanical Gardens and Dendroparks of Ukraine. Today, the National Botanical Garden of Grych is certainly a national acquisition, and by the admission of numerous experts, one of the world’s best botanical gardens. Its work promotes Ukraine’s international authority as a scientific, developed European state. The marking of the 75th anniversary of the National Botanical Garden of Grych on a national level will enhance the prestige of national science, ensure further development of the institution, contribute to the expansion of modern research, the expansion of international cooperation, the preservation and enrichment of Ukraine's plant resources. I propose to support the committee's decision and to take a decision on the basis of it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u179	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? If necessary, sign in. Please put the name of the national MPs on the information board. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u180	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, the People's Deputies, the Yulia Timoshenko Block will support it. This is truly the famous thing we have in the capital city of Kiev. There's not a slightest objection. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking you, for once I say this, let's sort of get back to normal so that we can avoid our legislative grid. And we agreed that we were making one frontal list of all the notable dates, events, dates, institutions, personnel, and we're running them with one single decision. It'll be very normal, we won't be on any of them. Okay, I don't think there's gonna be a problem with voting on this unique park. But let's say that where names are concerned, it causes some friction in the Supreme Council. I think we have a normal reasonable opportunity to avoid that. I mean, to keep it together, I don't think it's a cultural committee, even though it suits him the most. And that's how we're going to avoid, so we're looking at Bibrek separately, and now we're looking at the Botanical Garden of Grits. There's just some advice, I think Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you need to pay attention to this and really get us back to normal, once you've made this decision about dates, and you don't have to do it anymore, because we're often on some sort of minefields. And now, of course, we're going to vote in favour of celebrating the anniversary of this Botanical Garden. I think it's a question, there's no politics here, there's only a great Ukrainian priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u181	Thank you. Paul Sulkovsky’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u182	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, Plaintish. You know, I don't think there's any doubt today that we need to support this decision. Because this garden is actually in the capital, so a lot of guests are coming to our capital, and we have to keep developing, and I would say, promising questions. And I have this tremendous advice, just so we don't talk about it, that the organ committee will be created, I think a little bit later, so that this committee will create a new government, and then we'll come back to remind the new Cabinet of Ministers, which I think will be in a few days. And I believe that the new government will take this matter seriously and will be solved at the highest level. So to conclude, I really urge that we approach this with balance and accept, support this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u183	Who else insists on the performance, dear colleagues? Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u184	Dear friends, the question is very important, because when you look at the map of Kiev today, the one we'll allow was 20 years ago when citizens had access to the resorts of rest: Conca-Sazpas, Desert-Water, Igoria today it's captured, stolen into the sheds and into the countries. And as for this little island where every cyanide can go, it also goes on a thorough ride, right under the parks they're already building a building, a security area of the park called Gryk of this Botanical Garden. I would like to say that so destroyed the former territories of the Institute of Gardening in China, if one of the reporters mentioned by whose hands this was done, and for what? And so on. So if we don't support this park today, we won't protect it, we'll lose it, too, as we lost a lot of what was long ago available to the Chinese. Thus, the Jubilee should provide for this protective system of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Is there no other insistence? A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mark the 75th anniversary of the founding of the National Botanical Garden of the Name Grishka. [[Registration number 4458]] Please vote. [[13:42:25]] For 332 They took it as a foundation. Dear National Deputies! The committee suggests that we accept it as a whole. Is there no objection? It wasn't. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt an entire draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine marking the 75th anniversary of the founding of the National Botanical Garden of Grishka. [[Registration number 4458]] Please vote. [[13:43:04]] For 335 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues! We have discussed the issues that have been identified for our discussion today on Tuesday, February 9th, there is such an offer, honourable national deputies, to now listen to information from the committee's head on the situation that is going on around the bookstore "Snow", to close the morning session. The evening session will not be in connection with our consideration of all the issues set out in the schedule for today. There'll be work on the committees. Is there no objection? Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Please. Three minutes is enough for you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u186	Dear Society, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council at the first part of our morning session, we were given the commission to go and see what was going on at the Bookstore "Snow". First we went to two of us with Kulikov, and then we arrived with a powerful help, a strong help in the person of Irina Heratchenko and Olga Gerasimük, and we were there at four. What the situation looks like. At seven o'clock last night, unknown in black masks jumped into the bookstore "Swive" – a famous bookstore known not only in Kiev but also in Europe, it is well known, because it is a famous bookstore. These people actually exhibited bookshops on the street, some were even undressed, and they didn't even put on clothes, they made windows with large iron shields with such curvatures, which were driven literally into windows, there all the windows, and there they wrote, from the street they wrote: the bookstore “Snow” is flourishing, the bookstore “Swallow” will be forever and so on. [[It's written by hand.]] When we came in, there were some unknown people who said they were supposed to be new owners, but they were owners and real owners, and they were pseudoowners, so I would call them. [[Let's get this straight.]] And when Kulikov and I arrived and the national deputies were drawn up by others, we immediately invited the documents that were there. I can tell you that there is a prosecutor's protest against the decision of the Shevchenkow Council that he seems to be the new owner. There is a protest that has not been voted down and is not refused in this protest at the meeting of the Shevchenk district council. So these people didn't have any reason to break in here and take over the famous bookstore. In addition, a circuit court, a court of first instance, reportedly recognized the new owners, was held. But the case went to appeal, went to the Court of Appeal, and was not tried in that court. Kiril Kulkov and I, who just walked in, even asked for this receipt, which shows that they sent these documents. This receipt, the original, we had. That's why we had it all on our hands, and these people left this bookstore after a little bit of this mess. But then another brigade of people came up, well, with faces that I wouldn't let them go for a mile to the bookstore, they tried to take the bookstore again, but Kiril Kulikov and I became just at the entrance, covered up, some of them rushed to Kulikov, but when they heard that it was a national MP, they retreated. I conclude, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with a record of what they were trying to do. We called the police. Now we've asked the bookstore to make a treaty with state security to protect the bookstore, only after that will these shields be removed. That's what we know. Who is behind this? I think we'll soon tell you who's behind this terrible lawlessness that happened in the very center of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-09-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to support such an offer, namely, to contact the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, to deal with these issues, to provide us with complete information. I'd like to ask this task force to keep their hands on the pulse so that we don't let them take the last thing left on the Crusader. [[B in m in s a l in]] First we'll get information, then we'll figure out what we're going to do. No objections? The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. on Wednesday, February 10th. Thank you.
