ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:58]] The 402 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 14 April 2010. 11 questions on the agenda were considered: 4 bills were adopted on a basis, 5 bills were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the Yulia Timoshenko faction and the “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” faction demand that the Rules declare a recess. And they're willing to use the three-minute rule to make a statement. Please, who's going to perform? Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the faction authorized me to state the following about yesterday’s events in the Supreme Council. Yesterday, April 14, the Party of Regions and the ruling coalition disgraced and shamed themselves. In the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, they fully acknowledged their helplessness and total inability to provide the most needed for people who, without the help of the State, could find themselves at the brink of survival. Thanks to sweet promises made on every television channel throughout the electoral campaign, empty assurances of salary increases, higher pensions, and a ghastly increase in the support of young mothers won in the presidential election. In fact, all these numerous benefits, the promise of the heavenly manna, proved to be a cynical lie. It was sworn that two weeks after the election, all promises of raising the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens would be fulfilled. More than two months have passed, but no bill, no presidential decree or government decree to raise wages, pensions, scholarships, social assistance for millions of Ukrainian citizens have ever been expected. That's why the BUT faction, the opposition government, drafted bills to raise social benefits for underprivileged citizens, to help families with newborn children who were absolutely accurate in reflecting all your candidate's promises to the presidents. However, no member of the newly created majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of these bills yesterday. The hopes and expectations of a better life for millions of Ukrainians who believed you were cynical and arrogantly trampled, they were deceived, used, disgraced, because they all believed the sweet electoral lie that the Party of Regions played skillfully throughout the entire presidential campaign. Yesterday, the whole of Ukraine saw the real face of a team of one-minded professionals and its willingness to live up to its promises. During the election, the spokesmans of the Party of Regions promised that the government of Timoshenko did not want to raise wages, pensions, scholarships. Now that the time had come to answer to the people of Ukraine for their words, the Party of the Regions had clearly felt fear. In today's conditions, all their electoral promises will have irreversible consequences and will lead to the complete collapse of the Ukrainian economy, unprecedented inflation, the complete poverty of the Ukrainian people and, as a result, increased tensions in society and total destabilization in the country. All responsibility for hungry pensioners, young families who cannot feed themselves and their newborn children, for those who do not receive the necessary medical care, will lie with you, colleagues, and on you. You have not only disgraced yourself, you have openly demonstrated to all of Ukraine the only formula of your existence: lying on lies and lies is bad. The BUT faction claims. It is time for the ruling team to understand: cynical deception, lies, sweet, empty promises can go far -- even take the highest authority in the country, but the people of Ukraine will have to answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u3	Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of Communists -- also require a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there an application immediately? A statement will be made by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues and deep-respected television audiences, voters of Ukraine! Having looked at this farce from which we are beginning our work today, instead of looking specifically at the Social and Economic Development Programme of our State, I am convinced once again that there is a lie, there is an urgent lie, and there are statements by the representatives of BUIT. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the work of the Supreme Council today should begin with what the Government is presenting to our State's Social and Economic Development Programme. And for the first time in many years after the rule of orange power, the Government is acting by law, presenting to the budget a balanced, well-founded programme for the economic development of our State. At the same time, we have stated that the State budget of our State is ready to be considered. My country. And for the sole reason that there is a treaty signed by the previous Government that sets the price of $450 for the final consumer, which is totally unacceptable to the economy of our State, our Government is working hard with all States to solve this problem. The following week after the presentation, the approval of our State's social and economic development programme, which I hope will be held today, will be brought to your attention by the State budget, which has two objectives. The first objective. You're being lied to, written here today on posters, and which is reflected in the State Budget Programme, and in the State Budget Act, it's about raising social standards in our State. What we have been told throughout the past year, that there is no money in the State, that the previous Government has not been able to find, our Government has found sources. In addition, more than 27 billion dollars will be allocated to the Pension Fund, and this will be solved. But this requires the adoption of a public budget. And the demarches that our colleagues are doing are delaying this fundamental issue and setting the sole goal of bringing our country into chaos. We assure you there will be no such thing. We will work, as it is stated, on the plans that we ourselves approve on the Conciliation Council and all decisions that need to be made for the State will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u5	Honorable national MPs, distinguished nationals. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, all factions have the right to a political position. I can only say that a good sign is that today we have not reached the usual ways of blocking the rostrum and demonstrating our position, as in civilized parliaments all. Now let's move on to practical work. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of the day, the task and future prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in order for us to meet in the evening -- I would like your attention! - we could have considered the draft of this decision. Therefore, the request to take a positive view of the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the current state of affairs, tasks and future prospects for dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[Registration number 6238]] If we get into the agenda at the evening meeting, we'll consider the draft of this regulation at 16:00. Is there no objection? I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[10:10:36]] For 380 Decision taken, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to you the 2010 National Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine. Rapporteur – First Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Klavov Andrija Petrovich, responsible for the committee and rapporteur from the committee – head of the Committee on Economic Policy Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko. Sergei Sass, microphone. Just a minute. Now, one minute. One minute, Andrew Petrovich. Out of procedure, Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I wanted to draw your attention to the following. a program that will now be reported, introduced and submitted to the Supreme Council, to the committees, to an extreme extent, in a single copy only yesterday. There is article 16 of the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council, which sets out the responsibilities of committees in carrying out the legislative function. And it's part of the first committee in carrying out the legislative function that is required, paragraph 9: to review and prepare preliminary conclusions on the projects of state-wide economic, scientific, technical, social, national environmental protection programmes. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, no committee today has considered this program, but they should consider all committees, draw conclusions. And they have to report, committee members or committee representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u7	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u8	About your attitude toward this program. That is why we have no legal basis today, and you are responsible for considering the program. The question needs to be addressed on the committees that have been reached. Only then can it be placed in the order of the day and considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our colleague's proposal is very correct on one condition: if we had given the country's Social and Economic Development Programme to the previous government at the proper time, as required by the Rules. Because we are. And since, dear colleagues, please listen, and since we are actually working on what we call "wheels," we are forced to adopt a special procedure to address the issue, namely: the country's socio-economic development programme, as well as the budget. And we have to do this. Whether government changes or not, documents to be submitted were submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yeah, there's some distance here. But we don't have the opportunity, you know, for a long time. You understand everything. And one more thing, dear colleagues. Let's face the very fact that this time the government is introducing to the budget of the Social and Economic Development Programme, which has never been done before, and you haven't said a word at all. Thus, the observation is correct under one condition: When we work in a regular mode. It's all right. Please report to the First Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the 2010 National Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine, which is designed in accordance with the tasks and provisions of the Ukrainian programme President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič “Ukraine for the People”, the provisions of the Agreement establishing a coalition of MP factions “Stability and Reform” in the Sixth Council of Ukraine and based on the projected macroeconomic indicators for 2010. Targets, priorities and concrete measures for the implementation of State policy in 2010 are determined by taking into account the real socio-economic situation in the country, the problems encountered and the impact of the expected positive changes in Ukraine's international relations. All of the tasks and actions of the Cabinet of Ministers are seen as priority, urgent, anti-crisis, ones that will help stabilize the socio-economic situation in the country, restore economic growth. The global crisis of 2008-2009 has had a huge negative impact on the national economy. Its structural retardation, as well as its dependence on the environment of the external market, and its low competitiveness have been revealed. Ukraine is increasingly lagging behind the developed countries of the world, a sharp decline in external demand, a flood of funds and foreign markets, a rapid outflow of foreign capital, resulting in a fall in the incomes of enterprises, destabilization, and the full balance of the financial sector. As a result, GDP dropped by 15 percent in 2009. Industry and construction were the most difficult. The external impact of the crisis has been exacerbated, especially by the deterioration in the price conditions of gas supply. The decline in the volume of industrial production in 2009 reached 21.9 percent, i.e. the level of industrial production has returned to 2003-2004. Chemical and metallurgical losses were greater than those experienced by enterprises that had been slowing down or working at a minimum capacity. Overall, the decline in 2009 was significant: in metallurgy, 26.7 per cent, in chemical and chemical industries, 23 per cent, in engineering, 44.9 per cent, in food industry, 6 per cent. The growth of industrial activity has affected transport and trade, a drop of 24.6 percent, and wholesale trade by 19.3 percent. At the same time, the previous government did not take sufficient measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis and adapt economic sectors to crisis management. The exchange rate volatility, the deterioration in credit conditions, the increase in previously received foreign exchange loans, the decline in the level of payment discipline, and so on, has led to a significant deficit in the circulation costs of enterprises and the reduction of the internal market and, of course, to a narrowing of investment activity. The volume of gross accumulation of capital and government investment nearly doubled. The weakness of Ukraine’s banking system, its inability to engage and channel capital flows into strategically important economic activities, has been revealed. Commercial banks have been unable to credit the real economy even for short periods. The bank’s massive mishap resulted in a significant outflow of funds from the banking system. In total, banks have received net losses of 37.6 billion dollars in the past year. Today, as world markets are gradually reviving, it is the weakness of the financial sector that keeps our country out of crisis. It complicates the financial situation of the real sector by delaying recovery of both short-term and investment lending. Sustainable processes in the real economy and banking were accompanied by high inflation rates in 2009. The unsatisfying state of the economy and the rapid rise in consumer prices have had a significant impact on the social sphere. The nominal increase in the average wage of employees was only 5.5 percent when real wages fell by 9.2 percent. Under the constraints of financial resources, businesses and organizations have increased their debt from wages, which at the beginning of this year amounted to nearly 1.5 billion dollars, and with this phenomenon the government is set up to fight hard. The pay should be timely. Debt from salary payments must be eliminated by agreed-upon schedules, taking into account the real possibilities of enterprises, organisations and the state budget, and to that end it is necessary to restore production and promote the promotion of Ukrainian products to the internal market and exports. The main problems that are hampering economic development today are: Pear. Deteriorating the quality of the resource base and bank credit portfolios. The other one. The increase in debt liabilities against the backdrop of an increase in borrowing costs, the government debt increased to 23.2 per cent of GDP, and the guaranteed government debt to 33 per cent; Third. This is an increase in government deficits to 11.4 percent of GDP. In view of this, the program contains the tasks of the first 100 days — the maximum effort to get the domestic economy out of a critical state, which will enable: first, to make a major recovery of state finances. Order the finances of state-owned enterprises, in particular NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Solve problems with the Fund's replenishment and balance the state budget for 2010. It is through a realistic, balanced budget that a key task will be to fulfil the social obligations of the population and to address other priority issues: preparations for the Euro-2012, financial support for the regions. Secondly, unlock real-economy lending by banking institutions through the implementation of effective governance mechanisms in state banks and state-capitalised banks. Third. Reinvestment and private equity in domestic economic development. The main actions in this sense will focus on the implementation of forward-looking infrastructure projects, including the Euro-2012 preparations, set up by the enterprise of the small and medium-sized business of maximum support, including tax holidays, stimulating growth rates in the regions. The program highlights the key problems that need to be solved in the current year or the preconditions for accelerated growth in the coming years. Targets and priorities of socio-economic policy have been set. These include a series of systemic reforms in the social sphere. Systemic reforms will affect all spheres of socio-political and economic life in the country. Permanent development, territorial administration, state service, the country's army.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u12	The objectives will be achieved by carrying out appropriate tasks and complex measures structured by mechanisms, deadlines and performers. We're counting on GDP growth in 2010 at least by 3.7 percent. We think that under these conditions, you can also raise the living standard of the population and boost the internal market. But it is only possible to achieve the goals that have been set if limited resources are concentrated in key directions. Only this approach will ensure that the positive dynamics of the economy are restored in 2010 and that the basis for long-term economic growth is established, with changes taking place in all directions of economic policy. Reforms in those sectors of the economy that will give impetus to Ukraine's post-crisis development, and above all, will be attractive to private investment. We must from the intention of moving the country towards an innovative path to concrete plans for the implementation of such a model. In doing so, you can make maximum use of domestic innovation technologies, and in transport you can buy Western technologies not yesterday, but high tech, and you can create conditions for high technology. So the following are the problems. First. Adoption of the new Tax Code, which will provide tax breaks for small businesses. Reduction of the added tax rate since 2011. Reduction of income tax since 2011. Tax incentives for companies that implement energy efficient technologies. Agriculture must take on importance in this regard. The government’s deadlines are, as always, a guarantee of the food security of the state, the organization of spring and autumn field work, the formation of a national food reserve of enough grain. But there will be conditions for future development based on leading technologies. Reform in the field will have to do with improving the state administration system, optimizing state support for farmers, and implementing an effective export strategy in world food markets. The other one. Development and implementation of financial recovery measures for the fuel and energy complex through decision-making on the balanced financial resources of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and the creation of conditions for effective functioning. It's been known that for many years other sectors of the economy have been developing precisely because of the fuel-energy complex because of imperfect tariff policies, cross-subsidies and non-payments. The energy efficiency of GDP in Ukraine is 2 to 2.5 times higher than that of the world’s leading countries, but price cuts still exist. Without optimisation of energy prices and tariffs, it is not possible to move forward. Therefore, our task in this direction will be to create conditions for strategic planning in a fuel-energy complex, to build an energy balance and to optimize it, to ensure the development of uranium production and to lay the foundations for the creation of a nuclear fuel cycle in Ukraine, to extend the lifetimes of operation, to modernize the existing AES energy grids and to build new AES capacities, to introduce the necessary levels of manoeuvre and to create conditions for increased electricity exports, to create conditions for ensuring the reliable functioning of Ukraine's energy system, to maximize investment resources for the development of the coal sector, including the use of public private partnership mechanisms. Third. Implementation of housing-communal reform. There is a complex problem: it is an imperfect, inefficient tariff policy in the residential sector. Not only do tariffs not compensate for the full cost of services, but the level of compensation is constantly decreasing due to the increase in the cost of services. Inadequate links between tariff policy and public income policy, social protection, and fiscal policy provide for considerable debt for services. Four. The government will pursue a social policy aimed at securing employment by saving and creating new jobs and effectively raising wages and other incomes, which is one of the fundamental pillars of our policy. In order to maintain purchasing power, measures will be taken to curb inflation. At the same time, reform and social protection are needed. In the area of pension reform, the main work will be aimed at ensuring the phased implementation of the accrual system of pension insurance, the development of non-state pension insurance. But first of all, the increase in population income is linked to the restoration of the real economy. Anti-crisis tools should be complemented by support for structural economic distortions, such as stimulating import-replacement production. Fifth. Measures to create favourable business conditions should be essential. It is planned to reduce the process of initiating business to 14 days and to reduce the number of commercial activities that are subject to licensing. In this direction, it is important for us to ensure the simultaneous registration of business subjects in the relevant statistical bodies, the tax administration, and the Pension Fund of other social insurance funds. In addition, small and medium-sized businesses have been denied access to credit resources, especially in the investment direction. We plan to relaunch the small business entities' financial and credit support programme. The government will pay considerable attention to the fight against corruption and the laundering of revenues obtained by illegal means and other negative phenomena that impede the stable development of our country. As far as foreign economic policy is concerned. Foreign policy priorities emerge from Ukraine’s foreign policy strategy, determined by the President of Ukraine in relation to the leading countries or groups of countries. We need to step up our external activities, promote domestic goods in the world’s markets. We have needs and significant reserves for the development of broad international cooperation. In the context of Ukraine’s long-term national interests, it is strategically important to improve and stabilize relations with the SND countries and, above all, with Russia on a bilateral or multilateral mutually beneficial basis. It is necessary in these relationships to overcome the retreat forever. We also have to move forward on the path of integration into the world market space. Once Ukraine has become a member of the WTO, the process of creating a free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union must be accelerated. Here the main task is to continue to harmonise the Ukrainian legal field with the European one. A special value under these conditions is the development of export potential. In line with WTO rules and regulations, the credit and export insurance system is an important mechanism for supporting and developing exports. This will reduce the negative external trade balance and allow the next year to predict an overall increase in exports of goods and services of 15.1 percent and imports of 14.4 percent. The crisis facing the Ukrainian economy today is difficult. But on the other hand, it's an opportunity to start a new phase of reforms, which is intended to focus on higher-level tasks: creating conditions for the introduction of an investment and innovation model for the development of the state. Supporting the state programme today would be an important contribution to this process, the process of initiating systemic reforms that will be supported by budgetary policy. In the 8 months that remain until the end of the year, we have to: first, restore the active vertical of state power; secondly, give it systems and performance; thirdly, organise public finances; fourthly, ensure their impact on macroeconomic stability; and fifthly, engage in such important economic growth as lending to the economy, public investment, especially in critical areas, programmes and development projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, there were two minutes for the report. Please sign up for the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? That's a nice offer. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u14	Yulia Timoshenko, Reforms and Order. Mr. Andrey, you're not a Parliamentary for the first time, and there's no new man in this room. Has there ever been a time when, without giving the social and economic development programme to the committees, without actually having the Committees' thoughts at all, today the program is being introduced here, we just took it into our hands. [[And that's what people who work both in social development and in industrial development, in regional politics, housing, and so on.]] I've read 16 pages about this before, in the course of your report. And what can we talk about today? Any haste caused by what we are told again that the previous government did not submit the program. But he handed it to her, she's lying there, and the speaker knows she's lying here, but you haven't looked at her. Same as the budget. So is it normal for us to look at this document that's so important to the State? Shouldn't we put him on the committee, give us a chance to work with him? Two or three days from now, you're gonna come over here and talk professionally about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u15	Thank you. You know, you're right. I am not the first time in the Supreme Council Hall, and I have sufficient experience working as a people's deputy, that is. And, of course, the Government is currently working from wheel to wheel, in fact, we are working exactly one month. You remember, on 11 March in this room we voted and created the Cabinet of Ministers, in a month we worked: first, we looked at what situation we are in, here, at the end of 2010, we completed a programme that will have to be implemented, we prepared a budget based on this programme, a draft budget, and in fact in one month. If we are talking about how we can work properly, yes, the programme and the draft budget, if we plan to work properly, we should have prepared all these documents, well, over half a year. Let's really look at things. But time does not wait, we have a country in danger, the economic situation is very difficult. Therefore, of course, there are costs to be incurred. Therefore, of course, we prepared a programme, approved it yesterday in the Cabinet of Ministers, and the draft programme was immediately in the Supreme Council. And I understand your discomfort that someone has not been able to get to know her, but nevertheless, it's 177 pages of toilet paper, and I think you could get to know this draft program if you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u16	Thank you. To the knowledge of the people's deputies, there was no socio-economic development programme for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This can only be about the government's programme of activities – these are two different programs. The committee considered it. In preparing for the second reading, I think it will be possible to get a good look at this document. Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u17	Mr. Andria, in fact, for that there is an opposition government that needs to prepare to work out its socio-economic agenda so that when it comes to power, it can be served immediately. And you had two years of opposition. But I have a question along with the program you presented. First of all, it's not clear what tax holidays are for small and medium-sized businesses and how much competition is going to go wrong, and how many businesses that don't apply to this category are competitive with these businesses and if they don't start dividing, well, as in supermarkets, there are patents working there. The second question is why is this high inflation rate, which is why you're going to increase inflation compared to last year? And the third question is, are you going to continue to grant gas prices, residential services, or are you going to go to subsidies to socially vulnerable groups? These are the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u18	Come on, everything about gas prices. It means that the current contract, which was signed last year, is, well, impossible for the economy of our country. The base is $450 per thousand cubes, and if you think about it in terms of the formula, let's say last year it was possible to survive it somehow. Why? Because this formula had a lower rate of 20 per cent of the base value. Plus, you know, there was still gas attached in storage that was worth less than we can buy in Russia right now. Therefore, naturally, when the average price was diluted and made, it was acceptable to consumers in Ukraine. But now that this downward rate is no longer 20 percent, plus now the price of gasmel and all of the elements in this formula are rising, plus the base price is in this formula -- $450 per thousand cubes, so if we work within this price, there will be no future for our economy. We all know that. That is why we have delayed the draft budget. In fact, the budget is ready. I'm ready to show it to you. Here is a presentation of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010. He's ready. The only thing that was calculated here was the price of gas, which was $337 per thousand cubes. It's a very heavy budget, very heavy budget. And, of course, we have specifically prolonged this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u20	This process of budgeting has been delayed in order to finish the negotiation process with our Russian colleagues. And we're doing pretty productively. And I hope that by the end of this week, at the very beginning of next week, we will be able to come to an acceptable price for both sides, both for Russian colleagues and for us, at an acceptable price for gas. Once we get that reasonable price, we'll be able to recalculate immediately. If this is a normal acceptable price for us, let's say in this draft budget we have placed 7.5 billion grevens on NAC oilegas Ukraine. That's an immediate answer to your question. As far as subsidies are concerned, we have made a bet, but if we have a normal acceptable price for us, this grant will no longer need to be and we will, in fact, for Naka “Neftegaz” Ukraine, we will completely balance it and so on. Plus, we can get that price, then we can recalculate all the other social guarantees, subsidies for the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u21	Thank you, Andre Petrovich. Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter, I'm sure the program should be reported by the Prime Minister himself, but you can see a little bit better even reading in Ukrainian than he probably did, so you've been asked. But I have a specific question. This is priority number two: “The recovery of the banking system”, which is written here: to promote, promote, develop, prepare, implement, that is, all the items are called non-specific and you assign them to the National Bank. And you can see the healing needs to start with the National Bank itself and assign the Supreme Council to ask the President to change the leadership. I have a specific point: do you know what wages are paid by those who run the National Bank? I think they're a few times higher than the President's, the Prime Minister and you have one, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u23	Thank you so much for asking. You know, I've never wondered how much the President of the National Bank earns, how much his deputies earn. I can tell you one thing, let's say I'm counting my wages to homeless children. I think that many people's deputies who are respected, who are sufficiently well-reserved, are doing the same, and here they are sitting in the Hall, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Everything about the operation of the banking system, you'll understand, the banking system with the real economy is connected, there's no way to take it away. In fact, in the real economy, money is blood, it has to move in the real sector of the economy. If that is not the case, the banking system and the real economy will die. Therefore, in order to get out of the crisis, we must first and foremost ensure that the most favourable conditions are created for our industrial enterprises, for agriculture. All our enterprises have to work, produce, and we have to pay wages, pay taxes in the budget. Then we'll have less Pension Fund deficits, no payroll. The Government's task is to create the most favourable conditions. That's why we're talking about what's first. [[Congrats]] Thank you. We are saying that each region needs to be set at a growth point – to determine, above all, where we will invest maximum resources, either public or private, to lower taxes for these points. And then by a multiplier, these growth points will be pulled by regions themselves through the intersections, through construction organizations by contractors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u24	Thank you. Okay. One minute, we're not done with the question, and then Victor Terrence passes it on to Oleg Laszko. Since there are many questions, let us continue, since there was a report of 20 minutes — five more minutes. Oleg Lazko, then Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u25	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear reporter! As to whether Timoshenko’s government was issuing an anti-crisis program? I want to remind you that not only did I submit, but in that anti-crisis program there was an opportunity for opposition to make proposals, then opposition, which is now the power. And 90 of your proposals were taken into account. Unlike you, when you don't give us the opportunity to submit your proposals to your program, even at the stage of its development. Now the question is essentially. You have just declared that the main task of the government of Azarov is to raise the standard of living of citizens. But your declarations do not match your business. In particular, when it comes to pension insurance, from April 1, pensions for citizens rose by one percent. I think millions of Ukrainian citizens thank the government of Azarov for this generosity. Yesterday’s predominant coalition was not supported by the Law on Raising the Level of State Social Assistance for low - living families. And yesterday, it's about a powerful coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u26	Please complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u27	And yesterday, the vast majority of the pro-government coalition did not support a bill that would allow the payment of savings to millions of Ukrainian citizens. So, please tell me, how do your declarations match your specifics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. You know, I have great respect for the opposition, because I've been in opposition twice myself. I knew I'd have that question, I got ready, you see? I knew it. And state social standards and guarantees. So in the draft budget, these are all standards and guarantees, they are, and the increase is, and the minimum cost is, and the minimum cost per month per person, and the minimum wage, and the minimum pension payments are all in the draft budget, and all of this is in the government's agenda. That's why we act in accordance with legislation. And we will raise all the social standards that are in force legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u29	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u30	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Andrei Petrovich! The programme is, of course, not just political declarations, but also a specific programme that should be understood primarily by our constituents. So I have a few questions. First. Which enterprises will be put into operation this year, which will be able to increase the number of jobs, or appropriate technological major repairs will be carried out, which will enable the State to manage the process of eliminating unemployment. Second. The issue that concerns domestic producers, specifically, what will happen in tax policy in order to talk about a development programme rather than a stagnation programme or, so on, a declaration of certain positions? Next. I hope our voters want to hear what credit policy will be like? So is the government defining it, or are we going to explain again that the IMF is dictated by credit policy from abroad? Next. Mechanisms for the protection of the internal market, i.e. the manufacturer. The main issue is the tariff policy on electricity. What will be the specific indicators? That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u31	Please let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u32	So in closing my question, I would like to ask you again, Andrei Petrovich, specifically, what will be the electricity tariffs? To let our voters know that they're paying 25 copies this year, and for utilities, the fact that the water supply, the water supply, the 70 copies, no one's gonna pay. Let us respond specifically to what indicators the Government has set for itself to make our electorate understand, and the Government is committed to taking decisive action to ensure order in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u33	Thank you, Petr Nikolaevich, for asking. Everything about tariff policy. If we agree on a gas price, I think that, and we, I think we will agree, we will not raise tariffs for the population. That's the first one. Second. Which enterprises will first be introduced, or how will we implement our investment policy? So, first of all, we're going to invest public resources in infrastructure projects -- this is the construction of roads, airports, this is the preparation for Euro-2012 -- this is the construction of bridges. All of this is included in the draft budget. I mean, if we start building with you, we start building, then the internal market starts to come alive. So we're going to need our Ukrainian metal, we're going to need our cement, we're going to need our cement, we're going to need our factories, we're going to need metal construction, we're going to have builders working. So the main thing is to revive the internal market. The first step, therefore, will be the positive impact, the investment of financial resources, which we will invest not only from the State budget, but also the provision of government guarantees under credit lines directly to the construction of infrastructure projects. We'll start to build, we'll start to live normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Sergei Titenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please finish with the questions. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u35	Dear Andrew Petrovich, we thank you for your meaningful report and for your frank and complete answers to your questions. But I want to ask you one more. Please tell me, how do you and the government see the role of native science in overcoming the crisis that still exists in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u36	If I may finish, Vladimir Mihajlovich, Petra Nikolaevich will answer further.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u37	Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u38	And then Sergei Mikhailovich. So everything about tax policy means taxes have to be reduced. You remember back in 2002, we were initiating a 13 per cent income tax. And even many of our party members were categorically opposed to doing so. And we, along with you, prepared this law, adopted it in the Supreme Council and reduced the income tax by 13 per cent. As a result, within two to three months, the total amount of funds that have begun to enter local budgets has increased by five to six times, i.e. we have actually withdrawn wages from the shadows. Therefore, our policy is, and we will be preparing a draft, draft legislation to reduce the tax base, to reduce the tax pressure on our businesses. Then trust me. and create these growth points in all regions. Then, believe me, the internal market will come to life, people will start working, earning decent wages, and we'll have less hope of thinking about what social benefits, how to protect who. People have to earn their own money. They must have decent wages, decent pensions. But there won't be a decent pension unless there's a decent salary. Now it's all about science. You know, it's hard to look at some of our institutions, especially research. We have missed so much, and we need to take it very seriously and twist it. What we are going to finance is actually set up here in the draft budget, we have 2.5 times increased the funding of science is a fact. But only from the budget, believe me, we can't pull this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u39	Please. Everything? Andrew Petrovich, are you finished? Then, please, whether it is your concluding word or your concluding word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u40	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u41	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u42	Therefore, of course, we will also turn to the leaders of large industries, to large businesses, to identify the main areas where we should invest financial resources in development first. In what areas of science, especially in order to raise our level of economy. That's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. From the committee's chairman, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u44	Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! The Economic Policy Committee, as a member of the Supreme Council, reviewed the 2010 Economic and Social Development Programme project, which came to the Supreme Council yesterday at 16 p.m. Regardless of the urgency of the document, the national deputies today have the opportunity to make their comments in speeches and questions. The program determines the government's course to reverse the state economy for the better, although it is known to do so under difficult economic and financial conditions. Today’s realities, as noted in the programme, are the long-term decline in production, the collapse of business and investment activity, the tightening of the position in the fuel-energy complex, the negative external trade balance, the collapse in construction and other sectors, banking, financial areas. The previous leaders of 19 years of development did not determine the priorities for Ukraine’s development. At the same time, we know that at the end of the last century, Ukraine was among the ten most developed countries in the world on almost every scale, both in industry and in the agricultural sector. We made the most bread, milk, meat, and sugar per capita. Today, these indicators, these sectors are practically not covered or provided food balance. We provide ourselves with our own production by 25 percent, milk by 20 percent, and sugar by 60 percent. We have to provide the population with animal products for the next two or three years, based on domestic production, not imported. I would like to remind you that imports of agricultural products in monetary terms are twice as high as those in the budget for the development of an agri-industrial complex. Dear colleagues, the committee had a scientifically based approach to the development of the program itself. It focuses on both the main priorities for overcoming economic crises and the qualitative recovery of growth. In principle, a new approach has been established in the public policy of reform. First, to improve public finances, to put order in financial state enterprises, and to adopt the state budget for 2010. It is through the budget that the key tasks, the fulfilment of social obligations to the population and the resolution of other priority issues, the preparation for the Euro-2012, the financial security of the regions, and so forth will begin. Secondly, unlock the lending of the real economy by banking systems. And thirdly, relaunch investment and engage private capital in the development of the domestic economy. Our capitalist ladies should invest in the development of their own economy, not in the economy of foreign nations. Among the priorities of socio-economic policy this year are a series of systemic reforms in the social sphere, pension, education, health and culture. Systemic reforms cover all spheres of socio-political and economic life of the country, the constant development of the administrative and territorial system, the public service and the domestic army. The project programme foresees a 3.7 per cent increase in GDP by the end of 2010, with a 5.3 growth in the agricultural sector by 2.4 per cent. Of course, these are small numbers, but they will allow you to create new jobs. As far as the real economy is concerned, these figures can be within 6 percent. It's planned to lower income tax, VAT, and eliminate tax burdens on small businesses, reduce taxes not only for small businesses, but also for all businesses, to create jobs, as was done for priority areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u46	The programme lays a practical foundation for the implementation of the conceptual principles of economic policy set out in the Ukrainian President's programme “Ukraine for People” and in the Treaty on the Establishment of a Coalition of Deputies’ factions “Stability and Reform”. At the same time, objectively speaking, not all problems are included in the program, and their solutions are not found in the amount that they would like. And this can be explained to some extent by the fact that the government simply does not have the right to declare widespread advances. The implementation of these provisions is quite real because there is now a unity of power between the President, the Supreme Council and the government. As a result of the objective state in which the country is located, society needs a national program, a long - term, minimum of 10 years. The economic reforms to be implemented in this programme should be of interest to all branches of government without exception. The development generator is the Economic Affairs Committee created by the President of Ukraine. We believe that in order to move the economy to new investment routes and to ensure the high competitiveness of the national industry, it is essential to give the state the role of a leading economic player. Only a state can solve the real, not virtual, task of modernizing the technology of the national industry, contributing to the restoration of scientific and educational potential, and this is confirmed by world experience. Virtually all of the lead countries have tried to increase state presence in the economy. In the years of the Great Depression, this has been applied in all countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u47	Finish up, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u48	France, Britain, United States This tested and effective practice is now being used successfully in Russia, which has chosen the path of innovation. Today, our Ukraine should certainly follow this course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u49	Alexander Mikolayovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u50	Do I have to finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u51	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u52	The economic, social recovery of the country requires serious and petty work. It is necessary to adjust the course of total privatization by returning, if necessary, basic strategic important objects that have a major impact on the country’s economy. Reprivatisation is an objective process for all market economies. Ukraine’s economy has lost everything in the past 19 years since privatization, and it has ruined everything that it can. So, for example, at the base of the Kiev cable factory Bilshovik, which produced a whole complex of sophisticated technology, a shopping centre was created today. The Arsenal factory is a painting gallery. One research plant, which was at the Institute of Automation, and it made a "big pocket".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u53	How many?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, of the eleven shipbuilding plants, only two are ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u55	Alexander Mikolaiovich, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u56	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u57	Two minutes. No objections? Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u58	Andry Petrovich here said that our cement plants would be put into production. We don't have factories, they're German and French factories that are bought out. And where they're putting it and whether they're going to ask it is another question. I, my dear colleagues, would like a few words in the agrarian sector. In the state where the social sphere of the village is today, I'm not talking about manufacturing, probably in all history, even with firm rights, there was no village like this today. So I think agriculture was, and should remain the main battery of the economy of our country. Because one peasant who works in a village provides 10-12 jobs for people who live and work in cities. And in conclusion, I think your colleagues, of course, we're looking at 2010 with you. The program for ten years will be given by the government in the next 10 or 12 days. But I'd like those numbers and those indicators and the milestones that we're going to put out for this year 2010 so that they're not just declared, they're controlled, they're executed. And to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u59	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Two regulations already, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please sign up for the questions. Well, we've already taken two deadlines. Well, please finish. Well, what could be the end?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we discussed it on the committee. Many claims and comments were made by committee members. But I think we're going to take part in the discussion today, and we're going to do everything we can to correct it, to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u61	Yes, questions. One minute, one question. Basil Shpak, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u62	Shpak, Block of Lithuania. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, as no one else, you know the great situation in the agricultural sector and you know in detail this production. And today, after those reformed, we have some result, you just talked about it. And I'd like to ask you a question, how do you see the way out of this situation? And I think the main thing is that it's a change in the structure of agricultural production. You don't have to sow 300 to 500 hectares in Chrystec, you have to have the manufacturer do the one who lives there. And there will come to be associations, and there will be pies of land, and not those where God knows where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u63	Thanks for the questions, respectable colleagues, the model of efficient production has been developed for many years by the Soviet authorities, from communes, POPs, POPs to inter-economic associations, and this has been an effective form. We had everything we needed for the closed cycle to have an agro-industrial complex from technology to animal production, from processing to implementation. And a system called agroprom was created. The state entered the first five, I said. So, Vasil Fedorovich, the question you asked us, I understand, everything that was better, we should take it today. But a large, highly specialized farm should certainly take its place. Not these latifundists, who now have 50 - 150.000 acres [50 - 150 ha] of land, but those farms are optimal for the steppe, the woodchopper, and the field. And last of all, I think we should set up a State Committee on Construction right now this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u64	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u65	Not from China, too. China and I are driving vans! Swalks from China! And I think the State Land Fund should go to Minagroprom, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u66	Stanislaw Arzhivetin, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u67	Alexander Mikolaiovich, here's the previous reporter you've always criticised the banking system for not funding the real economy, the high interest rates, the lack of credit resources. And I'm sorry that neither the previous speaker nor you said that the only strategic investor in our economy could be population investment. We have 100-150 billion, no world bank, no dollar outside will lend us that kind of money. Too bad they didn't say how to restore trust in people to the state, to banks, and to put this money into economic circulation is the first. And the second question is, don't you think you're imbalanced when the National Bank is planning almost 10 billion revenue this year, and the banking system is almost 50 billion losses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u68	Thank you. I think the questions are classic and they're understood by most people. The classics are that we had the Agrobank, which was eliminated by turning it into a commercial bank. So what you're saying today, if we create Agrobank today, our citizens will really come to it. And that's 30 percent of the total population balance in Ukraine. And I think that trust in the banking system is going to be able to recover, and so is competition between banks: who and under what conditions will contribute to the development of an agro-industrial complex, whether commercial banks are urban or a commercial bank that will serve an agro-industrial complex. And the last. I think, dear colleagues, if we put eight billion dollars in the budget today to develop an agro-industrial complex, let's measure it. The agro-industrial complex was added to the budget in that year by more than 30 billion dollars in government budget. What's the ratio?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u69	Please finish. Melnik National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u70	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! I would like to inform you, as deputy head of the budget committee, that the support of the agri-industrial complex will increase by 19.7 percent. At the same time, the amount of direct state support will increase by 2.6 times -- it's in a draft budget that's actually being developed. And I want to pass on the word of Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u71	Microphone, Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u72	Dear Alexander Nikolayevich! You are absolutely right when you said that for the first time, the power of power was established, when the majority of Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Government and the President were a single team of professionals aimed at raising the economy to raise social standards for people's lives. I have a specific question. The past Government focused mainly on the banking system, on the resuscitation of the banking system, forgetting the real economy. Today's Government and the President are putting the real sector of the economy in a resuscitation, raising the real sector of the economy and understanding it only from the point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u73	I understood the question, both first and second. Dear colleagues! If you're in the budget, today you think you've raised 19 percent to the 2009 level is a cash register. In order for the village today to provide enough food for the population, for my own, I don't consider exports, we need to make at least 45-47 billion. It's going to be 8, which is 19 percent? You can count 25 to 30 times the city's population in the Ukraine budget is more expensive than in the country, and that's what we're talking about in production. And in general, I think if we want to put the economy on its feet and cities today, not just the village, I think we should start with an agro-industrial complex, that's what all the states have done, and we have to go back to it with our faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u74	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. First the faction of the performances, then the people's deputies directly. Please record the national MPs. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergey Sobolev, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, please have the right to speak. The next will be Viacheslav Koval, the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". You're handing it over? Viacheslav Koval is transferring the right to speak to Sergey Sobolev, thus the 6th. And I'm sorry, Alexandra Bondar, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u75	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! Undoubtedly, the key problem in discussing this issue is the inability to get to know the text of this program in detail, for, of course, we only received it this morning. But even a preliminary introduction to the Ukrainian Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine, a comparison of the draft law with the anti-crisis programme that was introduced by the government of Yulia Timoshenko at the time shows the following. If we reject the three key pages of the introduction, where it was told how everything had been destroyed by the previous government, we will see virtually every messenger going through this programme in terms of chapters, the economic development chapter, the socio-cultural sector, the individual agricultural sector, we will see practically the actions of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, which have been used, including through our session hall over these two years. But there are fundamental differences. What are they all about? I'd like to stop at them. First. Undoubtedly, this is the first document that precedes the introduction of the budget. We can find a key indicator here -- the growth rate of gross domestic product, but if we analyze this text of the program, we won't see any other key indicators that depend on the program itself, and the state budget itself. What do I mean? First of all, let us take the chapter of cooperation with international organizations. We understand that further cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, with other international organizations is a priority for this government. But we're not going to find any draft memoranda here, no key warnings projects, or the key things that should be reflected in the program, and so on, in the budget. The second chapter is a chapter that deals with draft laws. Well, no doubt, there should be a series of draft laws that should be considered first in the session room. What do we see instead? We only see a list of the names of draft laws that are not even included in the session hall that cannot be analyzed today. The third key point is that the key parameter on which the budget will depend is the budget deficit. We haven't seen any indicators here and, accordingly, how the government will cover what steps it will take -- it's not clear. That's why our proposal is next. To get the proposals of the National Deputies, to take into account the positions that were in the Timoshenko government program and only then begin to examine the draft document in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u76	Alexander Bondar, faction of our Ukraine People's Self-Defense. Valérie Baranov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It was very difficult to analyze the program that we had just received yesterday, and we looked at it on the committee today, and we got answers to some questions. I take the program completely calmly because it's a rudimentary rudimentary time when the programs were being prepared. No one will do them except for the text, there will be nothing left of it. But despite this, the main content of the programme relates to the results of the work of the previous government in 2009 and the plans that do not apply directly to 2010. Everything that's laid down here is impossible to do this year. The second question is the reality of this program. The state program makes sense if there's a financial resource under it. And if the government budget deficit is only 12 billion dollars in March, the program is absolutely declarant. The second conclusion that can be drawn. You can see that the government is starting to develop all the normative documents from a clean letter, i.e. from zero. Although it would be wise to use the documents developed and submitted to the Supreme Council by the Government of Timoshenko, there are many documents that could simply be presented by this government. And the last. How can you execute a program when all tasks are put on the fourth quarter of this year by ministries and law enforcement agencies. So it's going to be submitted in fourth quarter, before we confirm it, it's going to start next year, and it's going to start in 2010. For example, I can say. The privatization programme should be developed, not specified at all, although it has been submitted several times by previous governments to the Supreme Council and is ready for consideration in the Supreme Council. The list of sites not subject to privatization — the fourth quarter of this year, already submitted by the Timoshenko government, has been considered on the committee — can be considered right now. The list of items sold this year is formed in the third quarter, when it will never be sold again. And there are interesting implementation joint projects, such as a joint project with the Holding Fund and the German Society of Technical Cooperation, which will be working on teaching seminars. We've been privatizing for 20 years, we can be teaching other countries, and now we're going to be learning in 20 years from the Germans, how we're going to do privatization. So this program is essentially, of a purely declarative nature, it has no financial security and it doesn't really matter, I don't think it makes any sense at all. She'll stay on paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Valerius Baranov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u79	Respectable deputies, members of the government! Today, it is clear that the existing system of the State's device is completely unsuspecting. And unless the Government takes radical measures for pragmatic reforms, nothing will change in our country. Over the years, slumbering populism has destroyed our State's governance and economy. At the same time, power and opposition are intermittently blocking the rostrum, requiring an increase in social standards, which we all dream of, and power in this case proves to be absurd and impossible. The last shift of the blocking rostrums took place in our day. Therefore, paragraph number one, which should be in the social and economic development programme, is to stop populism and agree to take concrete action to develop production, business, economies that can ensure our social policies. At the same time, the programme does not have concrete steps, specific measures to change tax policies, to free business from public roads and to create incentives for the development of production. It is unfortunate that decentralization of power is not planned again, and today's structure of the command and administrative cemetery is destroying local self-government, and it does not allow the economy to work. Such a number of officials from the old system do not need our State at all, they just think about themselves and stop doing business. And it is very sad that there are no steps to decentralization of finance. Decentralization of finance can make a real step towards the destruction of corruption. The money will go back to Kiev, the ministers will share the money, and we will all travel from the territory, ask, "Give us a pipe, give us a fence, a roof and a road." That is the cause of corruption. Unfortunately, no one is going to change it. And it is very sad that no real steps have been taken to develop local self-government. It was surprising to me to learn that the City Association had not participated at all in the development of the programme and no one considered it necessary to involve practitioners and pragmatics in the development of this necessary document. Any program can be criticized as much as you like. It's important what she is. It is important that it is accessible to its development, to its improvement, to various proposals. If there is a programme, there should be another programme: providing personnel for the document, providing expertise for those who can implement it. Most importantly, we need finance, a budget that can be the basis for any programme. In general, I believe that the programme should be supported. Our faction stands ready to make its reasonable concrete proposals. Without the program, our society still works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u80	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following. None of us will today dispute the specific text of this programme. This is another: who and what is responsible for what Parliament is claiming today. And I would like to draw the Government's attention to the fact that the 177-page programme can become real when it is, in fact, on 10 pages. And the Supreme Council today must adopt the main parameters of the Cabinet of Ministers' activities on digital indicators to be achieved. I'm drawing your attention to the following points. First of all, the list of draft laws presented in the programme does not say what will be done. Because the title of the law is good and, as usual, it ends with the law serving clans and oligarchs, but it does not provide for the tasks that need to be done today. And if we are talking about the need for the development of our domestic producer today, I think we should clearly define here for the Cabinet of Ministers, given that we are drawing up a programme for 2010 -- and we have six months left -- clearly enterprises: what will be done at the Malyshev plant, a specific state-owned enterprise, which will be done for the FET plant, how will the number of jobs increase so that we have a specific socio-economic task to deal with the elimination of unemployment. We should adopt today's average wage in order for the Cabinet of Ministers to reach that figure. Today, we must confirm how much housing the Government and, in general, all economic actors will build for our people today. We must tell the producer clearly today how we will protect him from the expansion of goods in our domestic market, what will be the credit policy and basic parameters. We must clearly tell our entrepreneur, including our citizens, what the tariff policy on electricity will be. That is, we must define today the indicators to which we should strive in our economic activities, including the Cabinet of Ministers. I am deeply convinced that today many have expected of us, listening to speeches by the Cabinet of Ministers, what tax policy will be in specific indicators, not general discussions, which will be reduced, but what indicators will be put into the State budget, although it is not a budget for the entire year. I would like to draw your attention once again, comrades, to the content of this programme, and this is said by each of the speakers of the people's deputies. I would like to reiterate that the programme is called the Social and Economic Development Programme, and in fact, we do not know what directions and what indicators will be achieved for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u82	Finish up, please. Mikhailo Chechetov is referring to Alexia Plotnikov, Party of Regions. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u83	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, regardless of the slogans that have been heard by certain political forces, including this morning, the government has developed a Social and Economic Development Programme. And based on the logic of this year's budget process, he brought it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is essentially an anti-crisis programme whose priorities are defined by the country's current economic activity and how the government sees the prospects for Ukraine's national economy. This programme includes three blocks that are being drawn up to assess the situation in the economy in 2009, identify priority anti-crisis measures and prioritize the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is worth noting that the government program uses the term “100 days” that uses what has been adopted in world practice, assessing the quality of any government or president's activities. In particular, it is proposed to get the economy out of a threatening financial situation, to reinvest in the economy, and to cooperate with international financial institutions. As part of the program, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to take a number of measures to combat poverty. In particular, it is about improving public finances that will finance the social sphere, developing a realistic, balanced budget for 2010, which, again, will allow the income part to finance social development programmes that aim at combating poverty. In the proposed programme, the government is tasking to reduce the government budget deficit to six percent, corresponding to declared positions and negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and in other positions, and this deficit will be covered by non-emissionary means. Among the priorities, Kabmin also calls the recovery of the banking system, the promotion of the flow of investment. In doing so, it is proposed to increase to $5 billion in foreign investment in 2010. The proposed programme also proposes energy reforms, including the creation of a nuclear fuel cycle in Ukraine, the extension of operating terms, the modernization of the AES energy grids, and the construction of new AES capacities. The government calls its priorities in social policy, in the humanitarian sphere, in human life security, in ensuring that the real economy, in regional politics, in security and other important positions are further developed. I also want to emphasize that there are realistic macroeconomic indicators that are being introduced into this program. And on the basis of the above, the faction of the Party of Regions proposes to support the program that is proposed today in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u84	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u85	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The very order of consideration of this program, and the content unknown to the MPs, has once again demonstrated that the opposition work of the Party of Regions, which was declared to be a hard work on similar programs, some laws, has proved to be a lie: no one was working on anything, took the Yulia Timoshenko program, replaced the first three pages, and today we are offered to consider it. I really didn't read it, maybe there's something new at the end. Well, like everyone else didn't read it. Now let me look at some of the things that are involved in this program. First of all, everything about industry. I agree with the economic committee's report that there are problems with Ukraine's industry, and it's far from Ukrainian today. So, I remind you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, that the entire cement industry that you've been talking about here has in its own time been helped by Vice-Prime Minister Tihypco to buy the French for which he received the Order of the Honourary Legion. People had forgotten a little bit there, 13 percent of the votes had been won by a so-called young politician, who in his day was also the National Bank, and the Ministry of Economics, and was vice-premier. So he's not young at all, he's actually an experienced Ukrainian economy rider. Because he's still working on this program, I think we're not just going to lose the cement industry, he's going to have orders from the Americans, and from the Germans that you want, and especially from the Russians. So I'm pointing out that this reward is a testimony to his particular position, his persistence in solving the issues of looting the Ukrainian economy. I would like to point out that very little is said in this program about the order in which the new government with commercial banks will operate. In his time, the government of Julia Tymoshenko had saved thousands, millions of investors, their investment in commercial banks, with a very fine and flexible policy of supporting them, including legal persons. And today these banks only survived because of this kind of policy. I have not seen in this program the prospect of further development in this direction. I'd like to take another look at some of the social aspects of this program. It's completely worthless in this respect because it doesn't give any numbers. As of today, Ukrainian citizens, pensioners do not receive an average of 106 dollars each of the government's lack of funds to implement the law that you have adopted. I note that poor families who were awaiting the approval of the law at the Supreme Council Hall were bitterly disappointed the other day. And any such disappointment will come to the citizens of Ukraine in connection with the consideration of social laws of various kinds, including the so - called Soccer Law, where you have been ploughing for a year, blocking the rostrums, promising people great wages. It's not gonna happen. And that is to be understood by those who today will come to terms with the results of the elections that have recently ended. I think we should give this program at least one week to work on committees and deputies and then talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u86	Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Paul Sulkowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u87	Dear voters, distinguished opposition and no less respectable “tagged” authority! I am one of those who is truly in great distress. However, to be absolutely honest, I have no political selfishness, and I really wanted the existing government, the existing authorities, to be able to deal fully with the problems that are and to work successfully today. I say this quite frankly, but my belief that it is possible that this authority is capable of this, my faith remains literally a tiny little crumb, to explain why. We're reading the program. The programme is very clear: “ensure the development of uranium production and the creation of a nuclear fuel cycle in Ukraine”. It's written, it's literally just today, but a few days ago, the President is going to America, and I understand that he really likes Barack Obama, because Barack's name is very close to our President and nostalgic, and he's getting some memories of him, and he's getting what Ukraine owned, these 80 or 100 kilograms of enriched uranium that we need for our physicists. In fact, with this free transfer in three minutes of photography with Barack Obama, we actually put a cross in our nuclear physics. If I'm not mistaken, I think Yuri Kostenko is a professional physicist and he knows that we had a brilliant school and a Lviv physical school, a nuclear school, and a Kiev school, we can put a cross on it. What is the further development of the fuel cycle, the completed cycle? The second question is, I'm going to touch a few words of this notion that this authority, let's say, isn't very close to the concept of culture, spirituality. Look, I declare, I take one question, what I've been able to read, because it's not possible to think about it in a few hours or minutes, let's say. There is a question of what is required to support UNESCO, all UNESCO parameters to preserve those that are listed, the UNESCO list, and the world’s acquisitions. It's been declared, it's been declared, and you've been told that reality is specific, and I'm not talking about social protection anymore, and you've been talking to me a lot. I'm introducing a bill to pass on to Kiev Lavre, which they want to throw literally off the UNESCO list, because that's what's happening there. There they were built in the sacred territory of modern offices, and no one knows whose they are. To take this away from the boys of Chernewsky and hand it over to the government, we want to hand it over to your government. Why do you not vote in favour of this decree? Because, I'm sure, God forbid, do it, go ahead! Your flag is in your hands! But I don't believe you'll be able to cope with this economic, social situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u88	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up is Yuri Kostenko, instead of Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u89	Dear National Deputies! Dear Andrew Petrovich, members of the government! Today, populism is finally completed in government and in executive power. This is the case, first of all, who screams “Damn! ” Finally, the government of Viktor Fedorovich Januković, Mikola Janovića Azarova, did not speak but, in the case of professional personnel, for the first time in the last five years, submitted to Parliament a short - term program for a year. Although it's been almost six months. And that's why we need to listen and support the idea of government. This programme, the honourable ones, its goals and ways of achieving it, the main objective of the state programme is to restore economic growth, to build an investment base for further sustainable development, which will be a fundamental prerequisite and to address the acute social problems and to increase the overall well-being of the population of Ukraine. Dear Andrew Petrovich! This program, of course, will support most of Parliament today. But there is a request for this program that this year must provide for a substantial grant to agricultural producers. You know, the left-hand side of the state budget is the agricultural sector of Ukraine, which, almost five years ago, under the tight politics of orange politicians and the orange government, led the village to virtually perish. So for today, I am asking Andrew Petrovich to keep VAT for the village. Because if there's information, this VAT is going to be eliminated, then 8 billion of the village's money is almost gone. The idea of the earth’s market must be launched, the mortgage must be put in place, and the conditions for the development of the agribusiness complex will be created. There's an offer not only from me, but look what's happening today with regard to the employment center. Today, this structure is virtually untrue because everyone, lazy and not lazy, wants to be accounted for in the middle of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u91	And today in the village, virtually a tractorist, a combiner, just a salary that is promised at least 3,000, it's impossible to find a person there. So this is an immediate sector, this structure that needs to be reformed and orderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Yuri Kostenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", next will be by Alexander Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, in 18 years of independence in the Ukrainian Parliament, more than 15 economic and social development programmes in Ukraine have been discussed. But their implementation is, to a large extent, reflected in the state of the State budget of Ukraine. Now, for 48 million people in Ukraine, we have between $35 billion and $37 billion in the budget, that's what the Ukrainian economy is doing today. To compare Estonia, where there are only 1.4 million people, the state budget is already over 20 billion dollars. Poland has a government budget of 38 million people in the amount of $150 billion. No systemic reform has been implemented in 18 years of independence. And that's why the Ukrainian economy today has the same orientation, mostly raw, as in Soviet times. In 18 years, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the basis of a market economy in Europe that generates between 40 and 60 percent of the government budget, have developed up to 5 percent in Ukraine. That's why there is no middle class in Ukraine. So to talk about the seriousness of a program, we need to set priorities. The Ukrainian People’s Party has developed priority priorities that are included in a very simple formula. In Ukraine, you need to learn to produce Ukrainian products, in Ukraine you need to learn to buy Ukrainian products, and the Ukrainian authorities need to learn to protect their national interests. The implementation of this program can also significantly change state economic policy and fill the state budget. We propose first of all that small and medium-sized enterprises should remove all restrictions on the registration of entrepreneurs. Enter the principle of one electronic window. And for people who for the first time create jobs for five years set up tax vacations. Removing these restrictions will allow Ukraine to unlock a colossal potential, estimated at $50 billion to $70 billion in additional revenue in the state budget. There is no basis for an efficient economy without effective energy. In five years, the government has to move on to its own energy resources. Today, Russia has raised gas prices, and Ukrainian metallurgy and chemistry are halted, namely, basic, major manufacturing areas in Ukraine. So Ukrainian coal, uranium, oil, gas, and bioresources, as well as energy savings, will increase the budget's income from 30 billion to 50 billion in five years. Agriculture, very short. In two years, we can increase agricultural income by 30 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u94	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u95	If we stop bringing foreign agriculture to Ukraine. Transit potential is $30 billion, since there is no modern road, no modern airport, or railway in Ukraine. And the last. The tourist potential in Europe today ranges from 10 to 40 percent of the budget’s income. If the government takes all these priorities into account, then we'll have both normal economic policies and normal social standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u96	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Respectable members of the Government! Dear Andrei Petrovich Kluev! Andrei Petrovich, I've told the previous Government and I'm telling you, our Government, you come here to listen to the speeches of the people's deputies, regardless of their factions. Therefore, respected members of the Government, any programme is a concept, a protocol of intent. It's not a good job, it's a philosophy of government work. There was a great deal of declaration in past programmes, the words “direct”, “force”. Now, your report, Andrei Petrovich, in almost every paragraph, we have heard the main idea that the country has been waiting for years, this is the phrase “to create conditions”, “to create conditions”. This is the main task of any democratic power. You don't have to work for us in the country, in the factory, in the business. Create conditions – that's what our voters are saying, and that's what we heard today. It is the new jobs that will raise wages that will give revenue to the tax base. Our colleagues have actively criticised us for not voting in favour of our social laws for the past three days. Social laws are adopted in the context of the budget. Just when your budget was mildly underworked, we put our laws in place to develop your budget. As today, without a budget, we can vote in favour of social laws before the budget. What if the budget gives parameters above the social laws, what else? Therefore, any proposal to introduce social laws before the budget is aimed at one thing: balancing the institution of power. We won't let that happen. Very good question, Andrey Petrovich, is small and medium-sized business. But we need to be clear that small and medium-sized businesses are willing to pay more if you're filming police guardians today, from the tax office, from the paramedics, from the firemen who have been sucked into business today. Take these roofs from the business and the business will answer three of your tax receipts. The gas price issue is very well highlighted. Andrei Petrovich, our voters need to know what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u99	So that you don't do it in Naftogaz, the prices will never rise for the socially vulnerable in our government. I propose the adoption of this programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for speeches is over. Maybe we'll do this: the closing word of the First Vice-Prime Minister, then we'll go on the decision-making process and then we'll go on the matter of appointment and release of judges after the break at 12.30. Is there no objection? Therefore, the closing word is given by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kljev Andri Petrovich. Please invite the national deputies to the session room to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u101	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, we have made very careful and legislating observations on what suggestions for the 2010 Social and Economic Development Programme have been said. We will take these comments into account in the draft budget, and these comments will be taken into account in the Government's Dei programme until 2012. Thank you very much for considering the Social and Economic Development Programme 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we now have a decision to make. Yuri Carmazin. Where's the draft ruling? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u103	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, of course, was discussed without the conclusions we wanted, all of them, but I would ask you to follow the word you gave: to live by the Constitution, by order. Today, according to my modest estimates, 90 members of the coalition of those who signed up for the coalition are absent during their written registration at the registration desks for today's hour. I repeat, 90 members of the coalition, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So it's going to be, we're already looking at taking the seats of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense," and so on and so forth, it's actually about the filk's literacy, that kind of virtual voting. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's do what we do so that by raising your vote you can vote. Remove the cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u105	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The bill currently under consideration on Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme 2010 is a guide for the country to move in 2010 and it needs to be supported by colleagues from the party of power, by the governing coalition, who note that this programme, if implemented, would allow a number of urgent problems to be solved. But, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, we ask you to do so. There is a serious opposition in Parliament, and its representatives have made and made substantial suggestions for this program. Therefore, this program is by no means acceptable in general, especially since many of us have not been able to get to know it seriously, vote on the basis, give the opposition the opportunity to make proposals to this program so that it will truly serve the development of Ukraine, increase the level of social protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u106	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u107	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, the little line is that the virtual vote. Virtual voting only if one of the voters writes a statement that he has been voted on or disagreed with. It's all about la-la-la. Second. With regard to the programme, a colleague from BUTT rightly said that it was a guide; it was indeed a programme of construction and reconstruction. But most importantly, we appreciate the great development of the Government of Timoshenko and you said that the Government of Nikolai Yanović Azarov was using those ideas. So what are you talking about now?Oh, my God! We take reasonable action from the opposition. We accept and ask you to support what you've been fighting for, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u108	Dear colleagues. No, no, no, it wasn't called. Please, come on. I have been insulted by the faction BUT, as well as by the faction BIT. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you all to comply with the Rules. And when you come to the Supreme Council to register at the registration tables, don't show, well, disrespect for the Supreme Council. And then there's the legal basis for Yuri Carmazin's legal basis is to make claims, to hang up, because not everyone registers at the tables. Please do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm voting on the committee's proposal for acceptance as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis of the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2010 (Registration No. 6305). Based on the base. Please vote. [[11:57:16]] For 242 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, considering what they are. For the faction, please. There's going to be a vote. Region Party – 171, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 10, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 13, Communists – 25, “Litvina Block” – 19, “Afterfractional” – 4. Since there's a remark, we can't put this whole project to a vote right now, there's a proposal: to have the committee prepare it for the second reading and for the final adoption of the shortened. Mine! Do I have the right as a national deputy to make this offer? Prepare it for second reading by the reduced procedure. What is more, we need to receive and submit to the budget for consideration by the Supreme Council for the next plenary week. I ask you to vote for this proposal. [[11:58:22]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. After the break, we will begin consideration of the question of the election and release of judges. Please be all the deputies in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u109	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the question of the election and release of judges. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Booth Yuri Anatoliyovich. Yuri Anatolyovich, please. Order number 6310 is proposed for first review.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on 14 April 2010 considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis, and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general circumstances and the dismissal of a judge for a violation of an oath. You're all familiar with the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Here we go to Project Regulation No. 6310 “On the Election of Judges”. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Nikiforjak Ljubomir Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Golovacheva Jaroslava Vejacheslavovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Onichuka, Maksim Ivanovic; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Lavrinenko Love Valerievna; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal of Popov Volodymyr Vasilovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Radio Olenna Alexandrovna; Donetsk's Administrative Court of Appeal, Ms. Valentina Grigorovna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Zvirkun Yuri Ivanovich; Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Sitajlo Les Grigorovna; The Red Cross Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Romanov Love Vladislavna; The NovoMoscow Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Elizarenco Irma Anatoliyevna; The Industrial District Court of Dnipropetrovska Moroza Viktor Pavlovich; The friendly city court of the Donetsk district of Panowa Tetjana Leonidivna; The Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Horoschuk, Alexi Vasilovich; The Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk district of Gusinsk Mikhail Olegovich; The Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Kuznetsov Roman Volodymirovich; and the Slovenian Regional Court of Donetsk Region of Hennady Leonidovich; The Yellow District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk Region of Chumak, Sergio Juriovich; Ordjonikidev District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region of Popov Svetlana Anatoliyevna; Malinka District Court of the Zitomir district of Michnenko Sergey Dmitrovic; The Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye district of Revucek Sergey Ivanovich; The Pollock District Court of Zaporozhye district of Bogdanek Igor Juriyovich; The factory district court of Zaporozhye Bobrovitch Volodymyr Ivanovich; The Commune District Court of Zaporozhye Borowikov Alla Ivanovna; The Berezan City Court of Kyiv District of Holik Galina Constantine; Bilocerkow Regional Court of Kyiv Province of Zakabluk Oleg Volodymirovich; Vasilkov District Court of Kiev, Pirozhenka Alexandr Volodymirovich; The famous Regional Court of Kirovgrad district of Yakovlev Svetlana Volodymyrovna; The Kirov district court of Kirov City of Kabanov Vyachelavna; The Veselinov Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Orlenko Ludmila Alexandrovna; The Mikolai District Court of the Mikolai District of Karikov Larissa Vitaliyevna; The District Court of the Odessa District of Lebedinsky Stanislav Josephovich; Suvorov District Court of Odessa Kiselova Vadima Kostanović; Suvortak Inna Volodymyrna, Suvorov District Court of Odessa The Kyiv District Court of Poltava, Samson Oxana Anatoliyevna; Krukov district court of Kremenchuk Poltavsk district of Mahankov Alexander Vasilovich; The Bilopil District Court of Suma District Klish Olen Volodymyrný; The Conotapian District Court of Sumenuk Irina Mikolayevna; The Monastery District Court of Ternopil, Ivanchuk Vitali Miroslavovich; Kharkiv District Court of Kharkiv, Wabiya Anatoli Ivanovich; The Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Jefimenko Natalija Viktorovna; Ordjonikidzewski District Court of Kharkiv, Mt. Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna District of Bondar Alexander Alexandrovitch; The Starocostinian District Court of the Hmelnicke District of Zawadsk Olga Petrovna; Shepetov City Court of Hmeljna district of Bolotin Sergio Mikolaiovich; The Monastery District Court of the Cherkas region of Mazai Natalija Viktorovna; Sosnov District Court of Cherkasa Tokov Svetlana Eugene; Ripkini District Court of Czernigiv County, Jółtka Evgenija Anatoliyovich; The district court of Czernigiv County, Shapoval Zha Aleksiyevna; The Cave District Court of Kyiv Suprun Galina Borisovna; Solomon’s District Court of Kiev, Demidovian Alla Igorovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And invite the deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote must now take place, it must be effective. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 6010]] Please vote. [[12:38:15]] For 345. Decision taken. A decision, a registration number, is proposed for consideration. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's all appoint and then welcome everyone. The draft regulation is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 6311]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u112	Draft decision on the election of judges. [[No. 6311]] According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three, article 62 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Order of the Election and the Liberation of Professional Judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Hanov Raisa Fedorovna, Cerpak Yuri Kononović; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Student Vladimir Ivanovich; The Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Matviychuk Ludmila Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Alkov Svetlana Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Kuhar Sergija Viktorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Ivanov Irina Vitaliyevna, Matviyenko Julius Alexandrovna, Sementsov Jurija Vadimovič; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Kiyascha Alexandra Anatoliyovich; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Catholic Michael Alexanderovich, Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal Panchenko Olga Mikhailnovna; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Blochin Anatoly Andriyovich; Donetsk's Administrative Court of Gubsk Ludmila Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u113	What about Blochin? Blochin, right? Okay. Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u114	Donetsk's Administrative Court of Gubsk Ludmila Victorian. Kyiv’s Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal, Malchenko, Antonin Aleksandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we remove from the draft decree the name of Judges Blohin Anatoly Andriyovich, and with that in mind, the draft decision on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 6311]] Please vote. [[12:41:10]] For 334 Decision taken. Oleg Laschka's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u116	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Honorable candidate for Judgeship! Recently, the whole country heard about the famous Donetsk justice. The Donetsk Administrative Court found it illegal to order the President to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandery. Irregardless treatment of Bandera, we're not talking right now, are we? So tell me, as a candidate for a judge, when you become a judge, will you also consider it possible for the Donetsk Administrative Court to find valid or invalid orders from the Head of State? What are your orders in Donetsk? That your judges are also a matter for the administration of the judicial system, and for the judicial administration and so on. I can give another example, during the election campaign, the judge of the Court of Justice refused to grant the appeal of a trusted candidate to President Timoshenko by referring to the article of the President's Elections Act, which had been suspended six months earlier. [[one]] The court administration and the council of judges give me the answer that they don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u118	There's no reason to bring the judge to justice. You can see that decisions can be made by referring to laws that do not exist and by not bringing a judge to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's perhaps do so, the question is far from rhetorical, as our colleague put it, but we're not going to base Blochin Anatoly Andryovich, but he shouldn't demonstrate corporate solidarity or lack of solidarity. [[One minute]] If there's any personal responsibility for his case, please. [[Dear colleague, let's ask then, I beg you]] I want to say again that the judge is responsible for his actions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u120	The committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u121	Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, now, come on, say it, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I believe that a judge who makes a decision should be governed only by law, only by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u122	Adam Martinyuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you, if we want judges to be guided by law, we must all sit in the session room and make decisions together. Sadly, we today set an example of not obeying the law. Adam Martinyuk, please. Then Mikhailo Chechetov. Well, one from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u123	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have an offer when it comes to the appointment of judges, not to be able to speak to a colleague of Laszko. For he has an insult against the judges, coming out of the fact that he passed through their hands, if I am not mistaken once or twice. And it works. Let's vote here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u124	Okay. I've already announced, Mikhailo Chechetov, then the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u125	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions is categorically against judges being involved in politics. We are protesting a political massacre. Yes, the hat should be removed from those judges, who, in the face of the fool who tried to oppose the elections, were governed by the law and the Constitution. I therefore propose and ask everyone to support the current judge and to vote positively, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u126	Oleg Laschka's replica. Then there's Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u127	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. An honorary colleague who has just said, using your logic, must forbid President Yanukovic to appoint judges because he has also passed through their hands on more than one occasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u128	The Lithuanian Bloc faction, Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just don't understand why the judges we have to appoint should be witnesses to political turmoil. If someone really has problems with the judicial system or credit history accordingly, it should be at some other event, not the Supreme Council meetings, that is the first. At least on the committee. And second moment. Each judge is responsible for his or her activities. In this case, no corporate responsibility is provided, by the way, for individual national MPs. So please move from a political debate to a vote, a positive vote on the part of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I've exchanged my thoughts on this and I'm putting to the vote a draft ruling, putting to the vote a motion for a committee to elect a judge on an untimely basis, the Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Blokin Anatoly Andryovich. Please vote. [[12:46:58]] For 241 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I, my fellow countrymen, am addressing the people's deputies, so let's not show politics here, if there's no objection, vote. Because now the other side won't vote for the judges in the other region. Where are we going? Yes, the draft Supreme Council Regulation, registration number 6312, is now under review. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u131	Honourable National Deputies, draft Decree 6312 on the release of judges pursuant to article 126, paragraph 2.9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 15 and 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: To relieve the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine of Matolich Stepan Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Shadu Semina Mikolaiovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Korotchenk Vladimir Vasilovic in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Lviv district of Gnatov Nestor Ivanovich in connection with his achievement of 65 years; the Court of Appeal of the Czernigiv Region of Bilobrov Vasil Dmitrovic in connection with the application for resignation; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Stezko Valentine Andriyevna, in connection with the submission of the resignation application; The Old Town District Court of Volinzminec, Alexander Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Zaporozhye District Court of Zaporozhye Didenko Ninel Borisovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The New Ukraine Regional Court of Kyrovograd, Stalelova Vladislav Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Drodobian District Court of the Lviv Region of Vanczak Lev Andryovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Dubrovicki District Court of the Krasska Volodymira Josipović District Court, in connection with the application for resignation; The Provincial District Court of Kharkiv Nabillin Sofia Volodymyrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Shepetov’s District Court of the Hmelni district of Borisov Alexandre Antonovich – in connection with the application for resignation, a state of health that prevents the continuation of duties; Kjevka District Court of Kiev Kolesnicka Volodymira Mikolajovic – in connection with the application for resignation; The economic court of the Winnick district of Melnik Ivan Yuhimovich – in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, no warning? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 6312, on the dismissal of judges. Please vote. [[12:50:01]] For 314 Decision taken. A draft regulation, registration number 6313, is being announced for review.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u133	Project number 6313, on the dismissal of the judge. In accordance with article 126, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: In connection with a violation of the judge’s oath to release Taran’s Olenna Paulovna from the position of judge at the Lenin district court in Luhansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, no warning? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 6313, on the dismissal of the judge. About the release. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: In connection with a violation of the judge’s oath to release Taran’s Olenna Paulovna from the position of judge at the Lenin district court in Luhansk. Please vote. [[Yeah, it's all in us, isn't it?]] [[12:51:06]] For 304 Decision taken. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for the prepared question. Ladies and gentlemen, allow us all to welcome, on your behalf, the judges we have elected for term. Untimely as well as thanking the judges who resigned for various reasons. Good work and good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! There is a proposal from the Committee on the Duration of Review of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime on the basis of proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[new editor]] The committee made an appropriate submission, citing that there are a number of norms that require harmonization and require further work by next plenary week. Yeah, no objection? We're going to vote or. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, this must be the right decision, but I have a request. I would like to ask our Committee on Law Enforcement to give us some help with this bill, because there are a lot of rules that apply to the very application of the Criminal Code and we are not professionals in this matter. And that's why I'm asking the head of this committee. Please consider all of these standards regarding the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u136	Thank you. Such an offer is accepted, especially since there has been a request to postpone consideration of this law for the next plenary week. Is it okay if we don't put it to a vote? There's no objection. So let's put the question aside. Dear colleagues! At the Conciliation Council, you and I have decided that we will consider another human resources issue: the termination of the powers of members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Reporter: Olena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we have such a general need to resign the four members of our National Council who represent Parliament on the National Council on Television and Radio. In fact, two of these members had long completed their term of office, and two of them, Shevchenk and Plaxyuk, had completed their term of office on 18 March. We want it or we don't want it, but now the National Council is practically blocked, it can't work because our Quartet is not authorized. We have today to decide with you on the formal resignation of these people in order for the Supreme Council to hold a competition within 21 days and also to delegate four new representatives to this regulatory body. I hope that in just a month we will have a full composition of the National Council with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have not decided on a reduced procedure. If you have any questions, you can sign up for the questions. Adam Ivanovich, please. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u139	Thank you. It's a shame there's no Supreme Council head who announced the matter. But I would ask not only the reporter, but also the MPs not all to put in a rather unpleasant situation, sorry, the situation. Can you please show me where this question is in the order of the day, on which page, under what number? And what is this spontaneous decision that someone needs to make? I propose that the question be removed from consideration until it is legally incorporated into the agenda. It's easy to say that because someone wants to, it's not going to go away today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u140	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u141	Adam Ivanovich, the questions were on the agenda this week. In some magical way, they've really disappeared. But you and I have a roadside situation. In fact, the National Council can't work right now because our representatives are not with you. We must now make only a formal decision. We're running out of time. They cannot make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to calm down a bit. This question was repeatedly considered at the Conciliation Council. And it was taken for just one simple reason that the committee did not hand over the documents the other day. Since the committee has submitted documents yesterday, all documents have been drawn up, or we will continue to believe that the Supreme Council does not affect the radio area and that there may be a number of people there who are unable to make any decisions, or we will today, in connection with the closing of the deadline, vote four decisions, tomorrow in the newspaper The Voice of Ukraine will publish the announcement, and by the end of the summer we will form our four, or we will see how this situation continues. It's a personnel issue, and all the members of the committee, all the factions signed it. The documents I have are all the same as they are on the committee. Please, Chechetov. Yes, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, in order not to create real tension in the room, let us then put and consider the first question at the next plenary meeting. No one needs a conflict in the Hall, no opposition, no coalition. We are working well, we do not want to create a conflict. Please defer to the following week and raise Tuesday's first question and consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u144	It's the only one. We must all understand that this is how we delay the regulator's work for another half-month. I mean, it's not gonna be a month. There's a room to organize. The committee's been ready for a long time. In this case, questions to the secretariat, not to the Committee. That's why we're getting along with you so that the organ won't make any money before the end of May. Maybe tomorrow, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u145	Lenka, wait a minute. Vladimir Landik. Because there is a situation, obviously, in the faction of the Party of Regions to their members who they have delegated to the committee. Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u146	Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u147	Thank you. Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, from Adam Ivanovich, I have this notion that the Communists wish it were from such vacchanality all the time. Adam Ivanovich, you are entitled to re-establish your candidature, which you like and do, but I'm not here with you. We've just taken the State Programme for the Economic and Social Development of the country with you, and I haven't heard you, Adam Ivanovich, your voice. And the fact that you and I are bound by the Constitution to form your own quadruple, you categorically refuse. But we're not forming it yet. We need to free people who ended up in the same year and some two months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, there's an offer, Mrs. Olena and I offer you. Let's, if we don't really have complete information from some factions, let's talk about the first question tomorrow, and we'll ask it and we'll settle it peacefully if there's no objection. Then we'll carry it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u149	Well, is there an agreement tomorrow? There's no agreement in the room, so I'm afraid for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u150	Please do it again. Mikhail Chechtev, please state your position to the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u151	Well, then I'm talking to our colleagues from the company. Let's do it tomorrow. There's time, the days to agree, and tomorrow we'll really take it out on Friday. Well, today we don't have to, I repeat, break the fragile peace in Parliament. Let's make it tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u152	Oleg Lazko please offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u153	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The head of the Governing Council reported that the matter was being considered. If it is suggested that this issue be stopped, the Supreme Council has a decision to make. We can't just take it off. I think we need to address this issue, consider and make decisions, because that's right for both the chairman and the coalition colleagues who can't be a constitutional body to be ineffective. And you don't have to waste time because, you see, someone wants to put their quota there, let's paralyze the work of the constitutional body. And then we have "The Cable Will" monopolizing space, and then other uses in television space. Why? Because it doesn't work on TV and radio. So we need to stop these Communist approaches to the question, and we need to get to the bottom of this, and we need to get to the bottom of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, if anyone doesn’t remember, I want to remind them very much. We're going to have 21 days for each of the factions or social organizations to make their bids for the Supreme Council, and then by rating vote, the Hall makes its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we are in the process of dealing with this issue, and, indeed, we have two options: or we now support the decision to move it to tomorrow; if we don't choose 226 to move, I will put all the decisions to the vote because. Adam Ivanovich, the reason is that the Head of the Supreme Council, on the basis of the committee's decision, raised this question, and I can't take it off because we're already discussing it. So, George Carmazin, please, “Our Ukraine ” position. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, colleagues, colleagues of all factions! Today, no matter why the Monopolist “The Will-Cable” is destroying today, it is bullying the Chinese. We need to take action. We can't turn to anyone for what? Because we need to form our own body, but it takes 21 more days just to hold the competition. And the competition will only take place after the announcements. And an ad can only be made after we announce our release. So we only have two choices.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u157	Decision. We're making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u158	The first option they've offered right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u159	No, we're not three out of eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u160	or to consider now, or after lunch, or tomorrow morning the first question with the fact that Saturday already has an order to release and declare a new competition. So there are only options, that we are obliged. They have exhausted their powers as well as the head of Mr. Stelmach's National Bank, as well as the head of Demchenk's commercial court. They're exhausted from these powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll take stock. The factions have all spoken, and I won't give my word the second time. If there is no agreement in the session room without a vote to move to tomorrow, there is no, I put a vote on the proposal, move the matter to tomorrow and put it to the first question tomorrow and vote in favour of four rulings. Please vote. [[13:03:58]] For 204 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put to the vote the rulings that I have. I am voting on the Order on the Cessation of Members of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Speech of Plaxjuk Yuri Alexandrovich. Once again, all members of the Freedom Committee have made this decision and have asked us to comply with the Constitution and to release these members of the Nakrad in connection with the end of the term of office. Decree 6268, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:04:53]] For-52 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I understand. Since we don't have a common perspective in the coalition yet, we're going to have a discussion, I'm not going to make these decisions, because it's clear that no decision is yet to be taken, let's consult and keep moving. I am announcing before the review a draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the size of the disability pension]] Reporter - Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz, co-rapporteur - Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich. Mikola Georgievich, what is your offer: will we work full time or will we work at short notice? Mikola Georgiyovich Kulczynski asks to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. I'm betting on a short-term vote. Please vote. [[13:06:07]] For 252 Decision taken. We're working on a reduced procedure. Please, Mikolo Georgievich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies, the draft Act amending the 33rd article of the National Pension Insurance Act is designed to improve the mechanism for the assignment of pensions to working persons with disabilities by taking into account the extent of invalidity pensions and the period of payment of insurance contributions. How's today? To date, the Act on mandatory State Pension Insurance defines the disability pension in the corresponding percentages of retirement age. For example, the first group will receive 100 percent of the pension by age, the second, 90 percent of the pension by age, and the third, 50 percent of the pension by age. At the same time, the existence of an insurance internship and the period of payment of the employee’s premiums recognized by a disabled person, or a working disabled person, are not taken into account in determining the extent of the disability pension in full. The corresponding working invalids of the third and third groups at, let's say, the same salary, and there's one, let's say, five years of insurance, and the second, 30 years of insurance, they're still going to get not more than 90. One, not more than 90 percent of retirement age, and the other, not more than 50. Although he's in full insurance. This is the essence of the bill: to restore the rights of working persons with disabilities so that they have the opportunity to make their retirement provision takes into account their insurance. If he is 20 and 25 years old for men, he was assigned a pension, not 50 percent, but 100 percent at age. That is, the adoption of this bill will remove the existing narrowing of rights and guarantees for working persons with disabilities in the second and third groups. The committee supports the bill in the first reading. But I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u164	Because it's simple enough and it's designed to level the rights of working people with disabilities when they get their pensions. No other amendments can be made; they will not make any sense. Please support and vote in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u165	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevitch Valeri Mikhajlovich. From the spot, please, Valery Mikhailovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u166	Thank you. National MP Suškević, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, reviewed a draft law that had just been reported by Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski. I want to take this legislative initiative first. Dear colleagues, a very simple legislative proposal, is very simple. A person with a disability who worked 25 years as a male and 20 years as a female insured person and earned a disability pension, I emphasize, a disability pension, just to pay her that pension regardless of what she's working on. A disabled person who has earned a pension and works has to pay a disability pension. So there's nothing incomprehensible and extraordinary here. The language simply goes to preserve social justice in relation to working persons with disabilities who have worked in the insurance system. The committee supported this legislative proposal and proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. But I fully support the proposal made by Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, the author of the bill, that there are only two words written in the bill and practically he does not need any further work today and that he will accept this bill as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u167	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. My colleagues would like to sign up for a discussion of the bill. I'll remind you we're working on a reduced procedure. Please, who is ready to engage in the discussion. Stanislaw Arzewittin gives Volodymyr Karpuk the word. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u168	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” I would like to thank you, Mikola Georgievich, for the right proposal to restore social justice in pension insurance to working persons with disabilities. And we can really agree that this law can be adopted both on the basis and in general. Since the Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the words “according to their choice” should be deleted so that at least it seems to be forced to apply to the relevant pension authority for working persons with disabilities, but these words are in the basic article. Therefore, the offer is clear, transparent, clear, and truly helpful to those with disabilities who are still working for the benefit of the State when there is a disability. So I ask you to support this right proposition in this faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Uljana Mistpane, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u170	I want to say that, as we should not be so many Mikoli Grigorovich for this proposal, but how many people with disabilities want to work. And in view of the demographic situation in our country, taking into account the fact that these people should work and feel human beings, it is certainly necessary to adopt this law not only in the first reading but also in general. It'll help those who want to work and those who don't want to work to look at the disabled and learn courage and heroism and their attitude to work. [[disabled people, I mean]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u171	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u172	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I think everyone will agree to support people with disabilities so that they can work, earn a pension, I think that makes sense. There is not only one in this bill, but I, as a member of the budget committee, as the Secretary of the budgetary committee, especially to that effect, have no economic justification, no real figure on how much money has to be allocated from the budget. So once again, while I support the proposal in principle, I do pay attention to what should be called numbers. But in fact, I pressed the voting button to speak on a completely different matter. I'm outraged at the chaos in the Supreme Council Hall. An attempt was now made to consider and vote on an issue that was not included in the agenda at all and was not voted in favour of inclusion in the agenda. Thus, I see that there is a desire for the leading meeting of Tomenko to further invite some deputies to the rostrum who will report some interesting drafts to him, and thus in the Supreme Council there will be total chaos and total disregard for the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. I therefore draw the attention of the meeting of Tomenko to the inadmissibility of violating the Law on the Rules. Because despite my repeated demands to allow me to speak in explanation of vote to express my indignation at what was happening in the Hall, Tomenko was insistent that he did not see a standing MP who raised his hand and asked for words. This is totally unacceptable, and I see in this framework that there is a conspiracy in the Supreme Council when a group of deputies, through a representative in the leadership of the Supreme Council, will make the necessary decisions. I express my indignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u173	I take your indignation and inform you that this document was filed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvin, for whom you voted, and this decision was voted unanimously by the Committee on Freedom of Speech, which was reported by your coalition colleague, Olena Bondarenko. By the way, we don't have to vote in favour of the day. So I would ask that we all work calmly and confidently and not look for an enemy where he is not. Those factions that didn't sign up, the Party of Regions and the Block of Lithuania are insisting on discussing this bill? Don't insist. I bet on the vote, my dear friends, the draft Law amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on the mandatory State Pension Insurance for the Disability Pension, registration number 1454. Please vote. [[13:16:03]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 134, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 36, communists - 22, "Block of Lithuania" - 0, non-fractional. What will be the suggestions? Let's do one from each faction. Mikola Kulczynski, as he is the author of the bill from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", please, for a moment, will be Andrew School of Foreign Affairs. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps one of the things that led to this was the performance of our colleague, Mrs. Alexandrowski. But, Mrs. Alexandrovska, this bill has nothing to do with the budget. Not "yes" but yes, Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u175	Come on, please, 'cause.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u176	A man worked for 25 years, paid his premiums. The Law on the Compulsory State Pension Insurance is intended to take into account premiums and allow for the appointment of a pension, an old-age disability pension. What's not to vote on? He has the right to do so. He paid his premiums. What should he receive 50 percent of his retirement pension by age, a disability pension by age, as he paid insurance contributions for 25 years or more? It's his money. The fact that we have this situation with the Pension Fund is the fault of these people, it's the guilt of our overall economic, social, political situation that the state has to subsidize the Pension Fund. But why are people with disabilities here? I'm asking you very much, Party of Regions, please, I'm asking you to support me. Even if.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u177	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u178	The foundation, but it was people who paid for it. They paid, that's their money. Why should their money go to someone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u179	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u180	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I would like to address once again the fierce defenders of human rights and the disabled, including those with disabilities. Now you've stabbed the disabled in the back. Because you've forbidden them to work and do that hard, believe me, because the disabled are hard to work on, it's very, very not easy, it's not easy, so it's still connected to retirement and working. You told him not to. And you, representatives of the Party of Regions, well, I understand the Communists there have given a few votes, well, you'd have now, I don't know, reddish and get out of this session room. Because you don't have enough to destroy Ukraine, you're still destroying the disabled, the people of the God-fearing, who voted very often for you, so you believed your lying, arrogant slogans that you promised them, the improvement of life today. Now you take the job and you take the job from them. People want to work, and you take it away from them, and you lie cynically that you want to help them. So I ask you to step aside and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u181	Mikhailo Chechetov from the faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions does not differ from that of the coalition. Did we say we were going to form a powerful power? Formed. Did we say that we're eliminating chaos mostly from an unruly country? Restored. Did we say we'd take a social and economic development programme? Copy that. We said that we would receive the budget by 1 May, where the resource would be allocated to raise social standards, for social benefits by 9 May, it would be adopted. And after the budget, it will be implemented and the purpose of the law will be laid down. It's sequential. Step by step, we systematically address issues of improving social protection for people. Thank you. No chaos.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u183	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, and we will make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, for the benefit of those who have looked away at the results of the vote, I would like to say that the faction of Communists voted in favour of this law is the first. Secondly, I want to say that we don't need any problem that arises in this room necessarily to be politicized. The problem is completely social, the problem is, we have to look for solutions and make decisions. So the point is that there is a problem and it needs to be solved. And I am absolutely convinced that the problem will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make an offer to the committee that I've been considering, Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch. Please make a suggestion to the committee after this. Suškević's microphone from the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to have listened to my colleague Chechtov about the adoption of the State Budget Act. But let us vote in the first reading, I emphasize, language does not go into general, in the first reading! Allow yourself to work with a disabled person who has earned a disability pension. Is there a problem, a problem social aspect? Think about what we're talking about. Allow me to work with a disabled person who has earned 25 years of male service and 20 years of female service. He earned this disability pension. He'll go, he just wants to keep working. Why do we not allow it?Oh, my God! I ask you to vote in the first reading. If we think about it in the second reading, it might refer to a different time frame for the introduction of this law or something else, but on the first reading, accept. Well, it's a shame we don't pass such a law. Return to the vote on the adoption of the Law in the first reading. All factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u187	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. I understood the committee's proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the return to the draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Act on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[on the size of the disability pension]] [[1454]] Please vote. [[13:22:41]] For 202 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 138, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 38, Communists – 25, "Club of Lithuania" - 0, "Club of Lithuania" - 1. I'm putting the vote to a re-reading of the bill so that we can keep this idea alive and work on it. Here's to the vote, one more time. [[13:23:23]] For 208 The decision is not taken. For reasons, please, Oleg Lazko. Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u188	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to remind the people here at the Ukrainian National Deputies Hall that in our home Ukraine there are almost 3 million people with disabilities. And today, without voting in favour of this law, as a minimum, half of them, I mean the factions of the Party of Regions and the Block of Lithuania, which did not vote in favour of this law, because at least one and a half million people with disabilities are left without the means to exist. People are good, we are all in elections, we are all going to people before the elections, we are going to tell them how we will care for them, and how we will raise them to social assistance, and we will keep them in mind. As soon as we get here, we forget about the ones that got us here. We have a conscience in those who don't vote, don't we? Obviously not. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u189	Vladimir Karpuk. Vladimir Landik will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u190	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” One of the first decrees of Viktor Yanukovic as president was the Decree on Combating Poverty. Oleg has already said that we have about 3 million disabled people here in Ukraine, 80 percent of them are disabled 2-3 groups. People who have a meager disability pension and many of them really work. At the same time, with even sufficient retirement, 20 - year - old women, 25 - year - old men, cannot afford to receive these funds in order to improve their livelihood. And all the trouble is that when we're in opposition, then laws about protection are produced, only people come to power, they don't support them anymore. And that's why I'm saying once again that there needs to be a really low-income pension strategy, because without that, we can't solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u191	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u192	Thank you. My colleague said the last words, as soon as they came to power. See when the bill was registered. As soon as you came to power. You've had two years. Why didn’t you pass the law in two years, and now suddenly you became a supporter of the disabled? Think of it as a social injustice, or everyone needs to know that he's disabled to work. We get normal people, not disabled people, can't work, and disabled people work. So let's do better social justice: everyone who can work after retirement and get that pension. Then it'll be the right thing to do. That's how they're going to buy all the receipts on disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u193	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. I'm announcing a draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the provision of special vehicles for disabled persons. [[Registration number 2150]] And that's what I understand, because we have one author here and one committee is considering this question, so obviously we could consider two bills and have a joint discussion, because the next bill concerns the same law and the same problem. I'm referring to the draft Act amending article 38 on the right to compensate disabled persons for not getting a car. Valeriy Mihajlovich, please, your proposals for two bills. Do you consider the procedure to be complete, or will we be shortened? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u194	There's a brief proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting two bills to the vote to be considered together, because it is one subject under discussion and a summary procedure. [[2150, 2656]] Please vote. [[13:28:01]] For 318 Decision taken. Valerius Mikhailovich, please report. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u196	Thank you. National Deputy Suškević, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I very much hope that this bill will not be as sad as the last bill, which also touched the problems of the disabled. This bill is intended to standardize the calculation of disabled persons in order to provide for cars and to increase the responsibility of executive authorities for the enforcement of laws that provide for such a form of social protection and to ensure that cars are kept in line for disabled persons. Unfortunately, the situation is that for over 18 years in Ukraine, funding for this direction, the direction envisaged by automobile legislation, is virtually underfunded. And it was a big turn to get this, the law-predicted, social assistance. Accordingly, this bill makes a number of specific normative points that regulate this area. First, the bill proposes the provision of disabled persons with medical evidence at the same time by cars, room chairs and road chairs. Actually, this rule is in the Kabminu decree, but it was working, and it was canceled. So you realize that even an electric wheelchair for heavy forms of disability is not a car. So at the same time, the possibility of getting one and the other means of rehabilitation is needed. And the bill predicts that. The bill also provides for the right to disabled children, parents of disabled children, depending on the average monthly total income of the family, to pay for the part of the payment schedule that they received under the extended conditions. What do I mean? Cars are sometimes given for free, sometimes for 30 percent of the cost. Imagine a person waiting 10 years for a car, and they're offered to pay, for example, 13,000 dollars now. This person with disabilities, well, he can't pay these at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u197	Allow the report to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u198	It is proposed that these payments for the disabled be in a certain way on the terms defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, the order of which is defined as the order of the schedule of these payments. In addition, it is suggested that one car may be available to families with two or more disabled persons on an off-the-shelf basis. This is a normal situation, and you understand what this is about when many disabled people are in the family. And making this a priority in turn is a perfectly normal situation. In addition, it is offered to disabled people who are unable to move without a wheelchair because of severe damage to the drive-by device, if they are working or learning, and also to get cars in a row. Actually, these are the basic standards. There are also some standards that regulate extreme cases of social support for disabled people in the car supply line. The bill is supported by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. And I ask you to support as an extremely socially significant law that is needed today by the disabled in Ukraine. I look forward to your support, distinguished people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u199	Valeriy Mihailovich, two laws are about, oh, 2150, and 2656. Yes, I understand? Suškević microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I will report the second bill, number 2656. The bill also addresses the problems of providing disabled cars. Well, I can tell you that in almost all the last years, well, practically 18 years of independent Ukraine's problem of providing disabled cars, it, well, it didn't really work out. And today, there is a situation where funding for this area is financed from 2.5 to 3 percent of the need. In fact, it's a question, it's a question that can't be solved. And in this situation, there's a proposal, a legislative proposal in my law to make compensation payments at the request of a disabled person. If he's willing to give up waiting for a queue, he's willing to make compensation payments for 10 years, too. You can get a car, compensation payments for the cost of a car. The cost of a car is broken down by 10 years, and if the disabled person is willing not to wait, but to receive compensation for their transportation costs, which he needs today, it is suggested that he may receive from the State these compensation payments if he does not get the car, I repeat, at the request of the disabled person himself. In addition, when a disabled person agrees to compensation payments, he is out of line to obtain a car. Thus, the turn is also restructured, and it is possible for those with disabilities who today cannot get this car without a car. The situation is real, a situation that has been discussed in an environment of people with disabilities. And I'm asking you to support this legislative proposal that makes an alternative for the disabled person himself: or he gets a car.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u201	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u202	Either he's waiting 10, 12, 15 years for a car, or he's willing to get compensation for his transportation needs from the state monthly or quarterly, just as the Cabinet of Ministers will determine. This is also provided by the bill that I propose. Thank you for your attention. Please support both laws that apply to disabled people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u203	Thank you. I invite the head of the committee of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Ulyana Mikolayevna Mistpan. A request for two bills is also made, since there is one problem. Please, Ulyana Mikolayevna, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u204	Deputies! I want to respond immediately, perhaps even to a replica that came out of the first bill that had not been passed before, and now social bills were being introduced. So I want to say that Bill 2150 was discussed on our committee as early as April 2008, and Bill 2656 was discussed on June 18, 2008. So it's not today's or yesterday's drafts. It's just that, for a reason. My full support for what? What Valeriy Mihajlovich said, because we are dealing and working on a committee, and it is he who is the author of these bills. So I want to say that, like Suškević, working with social organizations, he knows these problems, and as they are written here, and I want to say that no meeting is going on without the participation of representatives of the social organizations of the disabled, so it's not just invented, it's not just someone who's "at the peak," and these are the bills that really go to people who want to. How do we want to improve their living conditions by these laws? There is, for even life cannot be called. So I want to say in the first draft, this is about special transport. So if you look at the order, and you look at the turn of these people with motorized faults, about 120,000, if you see that every year there's more money going out, but we know how car prices go up, every year we have fewer people with these car needs, that's about 2.7-2.8 percent of people are provided by car. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u205	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u206	If this is about us adopting a law, a budget, and then making changes, then I want to say that if we don't adopt those laws in the first reading, no one will make any changes and no proposals will be made to the budget. Therefore, the government should seek opportunities to provide the amount of money needed for the viability of our people with disabilities under these bills. I would very much ask, as far as social laws are concerned, we reject politics, we reject everything else, and we think about people with disabilities, their lives, their concerns, their pains, and let's at least show ourselves a little bit, I know, there's no pity, there's just humanity to be shown here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u207	Thank you. Please sign up for a discussion on two bills. I'm reminding you, we're working on a reduced procedure. Please, who is ready to engage in the conversation? Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u208	You know, dear colleagues, we've always supported Valery Suškević's initiatives. And he actually shares our ideology, and we share his ideology, the ideology of the human approach to the problem of social protection of people. And it is a pity that many of his initiatives, which he did two years ago, when the last power came into the power cabinets, he initiated, and for two years the laws were not passed on the shelves. And today, when Valeri Suškević introduces these laws, he is in fact making almost as a member of the coalition, a member of the Party of the Regions, he has only to write a statement, and we will gladly accept him into our coalition because he is a philosophy, understanding of life and social protection. That is why we promise him that we are protecting his position, and we will adopt those laws as soon as there is a resource base in the budget and the budget will be until 1 May. There's only a few days left. And then, without deceiving people, we'll really, really accept the numbers, the dates and everything, without building the air locks. Thank you, Valery Suškević, for having broken this law for two years and only now will this law be implemented with Viktor Yanukovič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u209	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, next in line will be Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u210	Thank you. The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I want both as a deputy social worker, and more than that, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and as head of the Council of the Veterans' Organization of Ukraine, to confirm that the problem where there is an effort to regulate these two bills is really very strong. I'll tell you more, a few years ago, there were about 150,000 people in line to get a car, and now the turn is slightly smaller, and there's an order of less than 100,000. But I wouldn't be in a hurry to enjoy it, because it's not because people got cars, it's because they didn't wait. And so I want to say that we really have to solve this problem. I'll say more that you could solve this problem a lot faster last year, because if last year there was about 115 million people in the budget of the past year, there was virtually no one in the budget of the last year, except for 1 million dollars. Thus, last year’s budget and the actions of the past government made this situation much more difficult. So we need to look for ways to solve this problem, and we need to solve this problem very urgently for veterans. And so we have to look for options, maybe one option is to try to get it on the schedule, but pay off the disabled car cost by taking it off the line. Perhaps a way out would be to create at least large cities with special services, such as automobiles, which, on a request from a disabled person, could be taken to a hospital and so on and so forth. So a multimanite spectrum of solutions to this problem, and we have to look for ways to solve this really amazingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u211	Thank you. Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u212	Respectable compatriots! Dear National Deputies! Although I have signed up “against” but I am “through” the support of these important bills, which limit the issue of obtaining special transport with disabilities, and the 2150 bill, and 2656. And 2656 I want to say that it gives you the right to a disabled person or to get a car, but you have to wait years or take compensation for it. I don't think it needs a lot of budget spending and I'm calling on my colleagues from the Party of Regions to support this bill. I would like to address them and recall your social promises. Because many persons with disabilities have voted, let's be honest, for your candidate, Yanukovic, hoping that he will improve their lives today, they won't have to wait years. You have the opportunity to do that. Help the most vulnerable, help the disabled – vote. But it's not as cynical that they went to power -- they promised, they forgot. So I hope you have a conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! We're having a brief discussion. So now we only have the opportunity to represent two factions: "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense," and "Block of Lithuania," the rest of the factions took advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[if they're willing]] Are there no wanters? Vladimir Karpuk, please, "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u214	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Undoubtedly, these legislative acts must be supported. We now have about 96,000 people standing in line for cars. These questions are not resolved annually. And there's a lot of questions about people with disabilities with malfunctions in their propulsion equipment -- that's about 140,000 people. And indeed, there are families where either children or both parents are disabled and have every right to receive a car. But legislatively, these issues are not resolved. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority's observation that this is already regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers' rulings -- practice shows that these regulations are not enough, and this needs to be decided, in fact, at the legislative level. As for the second law, there is a question. [[on receiving compensation for not receiving special transport]] Because I predict that knowing this situation, the main reason is that there is no funding, and when there is such an adopted law, there will be a lot of applications and funding will not be foreseen, that will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u215	I see. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's listen to the government's position, because it's often about the financial component and the government's position. We have Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Vitaly Vadimovich Muschinin and Deputy Minister of Finance Kuzkin Evgen Juryovich. Dear colleagues, determine which one of you is ready to inform. I see the Deputy Minister of Finance taking the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u216	This law is not supported by the Minister of Finance because the implementation of the bill requires additional funds from the State budget to provide for disabled persons with cars. However, the subject of the legislative initiative in accordance with paragraph 27 of the Budget Code has not submitted any proposals for expenditure to be reduced or proposals for sources of additional income to cover expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u217	I see. So I take it this is a common position? Or a deputy minister of labour and social policy. Vitali Vadimovich, please confirm two words, for the people doubt that your ministry is against it Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u218	I want to point out that we always go to the Supreme Council with the common sense of government. With regard to the problems that need to be solved today, the problems are very important, and they will be solved, and there is no doubt about it. The question remains that when the budget is adopted and the bills can be passed by 15 August, I believe that this issue will necessarily be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u219	Unfortunately, honourable colleagues, the reduced procedure, we have to make decisions, there is no way I can give a word to the committee or the authors. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the provision of special services for disabled persons. [[Registration number 2150]] Please vote. [[1:46:42]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 130, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 35, Communists - 25, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. Dear colleagues, since we discussed it together, let's vote, and then I'll give it to you with a motive. Because the same bill, or more specifically, is the same subject matter. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the right to compensation for the unreceivable of a car by a disabled person. [[Registration number 2656]] Please vote. [[13:47:36]] For 197 The decision is not approved. The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u220	I hear I'll tell you about the factions, then I'll trade you with motive. Region Party 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 133, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 37, communists - 27, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. Dear colleagues, one man at a time. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Karpuk has already spoken. Please. Next up is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honourable National Deputies, the Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, which was amended to provide special services for persons with disabilities, was introduced in March 2008. This is the same as the law of Culchinsky, which was still in force since February 2008. And you and I are making this policy today! Ladies and gentlemen, 15 cars are available in the region. We're talking to you about the development of our home car. So let's make sure that this money is directed at domestic cars. There's going to be native metal, domestic labor, everything -- and it's not the money in the budget, it's not the money. And these costs will go for the provision of wheelchairs and cars and wheelchairs. How can we see how these people are in such conditions today? And I'm talking to all the factions today, let's take it on the first reading, and then look at how you have this government there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u222	I've got the position. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u223	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. You know, for the third year I've been sitting in the Supreme Council, I can't help but wonder if there's a limit to the cynicism that's in this room. A colleague from the Party of Regions, who always waves with his hand, urges our colleague Suškević to coalition, tells us what good law he has that we support and do not vote in favour of this law. It's like finding words to say something. Mikhail Vasilovich, so 90,000 disabled people who don't have transportation, are on the line, and I think they're going to curse you for what you're doing right now. Why, then, do you mistreat people?Oh, my God! Why did you cheat on them before the election?Oh, my God! Why did you promise them the manna of the heavenly and the golden mountains?? To come to power and forget about these people! And now refuse to vote for the laws! As for the fact that we mentioned the rights of the disabled when they came into opposition, I would like to point out that these bills were registered by colleague Suškević for two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u224	Of course, Oleg Valeriyovich. Please, Vladimir Landik, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u225	Thank you. Landik, faction of regions. What a shame, Mr. Lazko! What a shame!? Why do you not feel ashamed that you have given nothing for two years? And don't you think you've been cursed for two years? You will recall on 9 May 2007, Prime Minister Yanukovich handed out the machines as well. including members of the opposition, on 9 May we all distributed and Viktor Fedorović said: "For two more years I will give all the cars away. There will be no queue." You're filming Victor Fedorovich, but you didn't get any cars yourself. And now you're hanging on to us. You're cursed, and that's why they gave you that trust. And we're going to do our part, and it's all going to be budgeted, and all the people with disabilities get no screams, no shame, no labels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I don't deny that if you can convince each other, just without the names, please, because you called your name, I'm forced to give you the can. And I'd like you to go on and curse without your names. Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u227	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia timoshenko”. I'm not going to curse anyone in this room, God to all the judges. And God sees it all, and the way you laugh here, you make it out of the country's top legislator, and the way you don't vote there, someone says it's heard all the way down here: what do they give those cars, let them walk. Just as those people can walk when God, as they say, has turned human circumstances into people in need of help. And our task, you're all settled here, everybody's happy, everyone's secure, so share what you have with those underprotectives, give them at least a penny from your billions. You're telling me that Victor Fedorovich Janukovic will give the car to give 90,000 cars a start this year. And since you didn't see it coming in your budget. You put billions in your pockets, and you put billions in your miserable people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize a little bit more, because. What, was the last name? Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov says that he was actively called and mentioned for a minute, the head of Valery Suškević’s committee, and we will think about what to do with the break. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, once again I would like to assure Valery Suškević, to whom our faction refers with the utmost respect, there will be no such thing as with Julia Timoshenko, that your bills will be dusted on the regiments for two years, there will be no such disgrace, there will be no! Viktor Janukovic did not come for this but for the social protection of the people. We will do this step by step, starting with the restoration of governance by the country, starting with the establishment of a viable power, beginning with normalization of relations with Russia, starting with the reduction in the price of gas, starting with the resuscitation of the real economy and thus having a real budget, real money. Not papers, but real money, which will be the basis of these bills, and people will get what Timoshenko did not give for two years. With Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, this money will be obtained.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u230	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Valerius Suškević and move on. Please, Valery Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u231	Thank you. National Deputy Suškević, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to wish you health and do not curse each other; it is not worth doing; it is necessary for you to protect your health. Dear friends, second question. I want to thank Mikhail Vasilovich for having an evaluation from you and your faction of my work. But one thing I want to say is very important. You see, I've already referred to the fact that my bills are often not included in the agenda and not in the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, and not in the government. We need to understand why the leadership of the Supreme Council does not become part of the agenda in time. On that occasion, I spoke several times on the Conciliation Council. So I hope that, including your faction, together, we will ensure that there is at least some priority for draft laws that apply to socially vulnerable people. And the next question. Dear colleagues, dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I ask you to pay attention to this misunderstanding. Here's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u232	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u233	I'll finish. Note why we do not vote with you. It's about not spending more money on a disabled car, I understand the situation, it's about getting someone who can't afford to pay 30 percent of the rent on a car cost, a schedule for them to do on the terms of the Cabinet of Ministers. No one, nothing, the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the order in which to pay for this car. That's the first one. The other one. A family with two or more people with disabilities will provide for the car first. Is that extra money? No, it's not. So what are we voting against? Third. The point is that today what is in Kabmin, Kabmin's Order, the way cars are provided with cars and cars at the same time, it's already in the Cabinet's decree, it's in the bill. What do we vote against? I suggest you go back in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m0.u234	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich, finish. Dear colleagues, we have a situation like this. Thank you. A fine political discussion came out. Let's move on. We have four minutes and we have a very difficult bill next -- a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on inter-State adoption. The author asked the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Helen Fedorovna Bondarenko, to withdraw the bill from the consideration because, in fact, in the session hall and in the institution that is taking care of adoption, they did not find a common language and I think it would be wrong if we did not have such a common language to open the debate and discuss such a sensitive issue. So since the author is asking us to remove the voting process, I would like the session room to withdraw this bill and translate the discussion on adoption into a professional audience, not into our political, parliamentary one. If there was no objection, I would put it to a vote and we supported the author and removed the bill. I, my honourable colleagues, am proposing to Helen Bondarenko, the author of the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on inter-State adoption, to withdraw Bill 2116-1. Please vote. [[13:57:56]] For 325 Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. This bill will not be considered. We have two minutes. And if, I think, it would be fair, because this is the next decision that needs to be discussed, I think on a break, we're going to stop our work right now, and after a break we're going to continue our day-to-day work, especially the decision on the marking of the memorial dates and the Jubilee that we need, I think, of the factions. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. After the break, at 4:00, we continue our work.
