ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:48]] The 410 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Alexandr Ivanovich. Please welcome a colleague and wish him good health and success in his work. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 13 April 2010. 15 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: one decree has been adopted, six bills have been adopted on the basis, two bills have been sent for re-reading, and eight bills have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes to address Ukrainian national MPs with announcements, reports, appeals. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. The People's Deputies of Constantinople Eugene, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Commits the right to speak to Oleg Laszko. John Stojko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u2	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the authorities in the next cynical and presumptuously drowned your hopes, millions of Ukrainian citizens, for the improvement of your life today. In particular, yesterday the governing coalition in parliament did not vote on a number of laws that would improve the lives of millions of Ukrainian citizens. Yesterday, in general, there was no vote in favour of the Act on the Increase of Child-Disability Allowance, which prevented thousands of Ukrainian families from receiving State aid for children with disabilities, resulting in low-income families being forced to give children with disabilities to boarding school. Although this law could have been adopted in general yesterday and the expenditure on state aid for children with disabilities could already be included in the 2010 budget. Another law that the ruling coalition refused to vote on yesterday is the restoration of savings to Ukrainian citizens. Millions of Ukrainian citizens who have lost their savings are unable to obtain them because a large number of members of the coalition, including the Party of Regions, the Block of Lithuania, have not voted in favour of this law. And another law that was initiated yesterday by Communist factions, but unfortunately not supported by an official coalition, is about improving the pension of teaching staff, namely: the establishment of pensions for teachers and teachers at 90 percent of wage. In this way, we've made sure that the whole society is fooling people before the elections. On the lie, millions of people cling to power and then forget about all the promises they made. A particular cynicism, the insolence of the situation is that yesterday there was no vote on the law, including the repayment of savings to citizens of Ukraine, the authorship of MPs from the Party of Regions who registered this law when they were in opposition, and when they came to power, they refused to vote in favour of this law. That is, depending on where they are and how they turn out to be loved by citizens. When in opposition, they love it very much when in power, they forget about these citizens. Let yesterday's events in parliament and today, by the way, the authorities will pass the test again – this is Act 1416 on State social assistance to low-income families at the minimum of living. This law is based on the insistence of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko today at the Council, the author of this law, colleague Papiev. We will see how the authorities will vote for this law and let this be the teaching of Ukrainian citizens how to buy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u3	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u4	Let this be the teaching of Ukrainian citizens to buy false election promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u5	Ivan Stojko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Irina Heraszczenko's microphone passes the right to speak. Please, Irina Heratschenko. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, two months ago the new Ukrainian authority of President Viktor Yanukovic claimed that it would never speculate on topics that split Ukrainian society. Instead, today, on the eve of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory Day, Ukraine heard a statement from which the world was appalled and appalled. Communists intend to establish a monument to dictator Stalin in Zaporozhye and believe that such monuments should be installed throughout Ukraine in all the district centers. A particular cynicism is that similar statements are made just before the great Victory that millions of victims of the gulag organized by Stalin worked for. Millions of soldiers and officers from the Red Army fought for the victory, just as they did before the Great War of Stalin. After all, it was him and his supporters who destroyed the flower of the Soviet army. In 1939, when Nazi concentration camps were burning throughout Europe and crematorium stoves were burning people, Stalin associated with Hitler and signed the Molotov - Ribbentrop Pact. Today, when the world mentions 22,000 Poles, the flower of the Polish army, and even the authorities of the neighbouring state admitted that it was the Stalinic regime that tortured these victims, our Communists themselves, that they did not blush from their claims. And that's why our faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", the Group "For Ukraine!" refers to the President of Ukraine, addressing all the people in the coalition who still have their heads on their shoulders, asking to stop this red rematch. Because the years of Stalin’s terror and repression had been hit on every Ukrainian family, the deportation of Crimean Tatars had been carried out, Holodomor, the most affected by the people of the Eastern region itself, represented by the Party of the Regions. Please tell me, is it so embarrassing for you to trample on your grandparents ’ memory today? We ask you, on the board of the coalition, to consider this issue and to put an end to it. Just like stopping the statements, the intention of the Head of the Herson District Administration to hang on May 9th in Herson the flags of the non-existent state, the Soviet Union. Isn't it better to put the money you're going to put on these flags to help those veterans who are still left in Ukraine? Please stop this action. And we also remind ourselves that the BSB has violated a criminal case for committing genocide in Ukraine in 32-33 years, and the Kyiv Court of Appeal concluded that Stalin and other persons for the purpose of suppressing the national liberation movement were involved in the organization of the genocide of Ukrainian agriculture. Similarly, the Act of Ukraine “On the Holocaust” prohibits the public denial of the Holocaust. What else can be called catacombs? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u7	Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block faction. The next one will be the national deputy of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, there is a process of rethinking the basic principles of Ukraine’s foreign policy. And in my opinion, the main task of this process should be to restore our state to the role of an active geopolitical player. After all, the last five years can be described as a period of loss and defeat in virtually all directions. As already stated by the leadership of the country, European integration remains among the priorities of national foreign policy, and we should use accordingly the entire range of programmes that the European Union offers us, including interregional cooperation programmes. In recent times, the European Union has been giving increasing attention to the Danube region, which today is a link between Central and South-Eastern Europe, between the EU member countries and the countries that claim membership. An example of this is the Danube Strategy of the European Union, which is being developed at the initiative of the European Council and covers 14 countries from Germany to Ukraine. It is aimed at strengthening the security of the Danube region, protecting the environment, ensuring the long-term economic development of the Danube countries, affirming and promoting European values. I believe that Ukraine, as a state with three Danube ports, the Ukrainian Danube Sailing, should be interested in taking account of its interests in the development of the document. The Ukrainian adjuvant has strategic significance for our nation. Ignoring this fact by the country’s previous leadership has already led to a significant loss of our position. The comprehensive Ukrainian Danube Development Programme is not being implemented, the composition of the Ukrainian fleet is not being updated, the construction of the Odessa-Reni motorway is not being resolved, such calculations are particularly evident in the success of our neighbours, Moldova and Romania, who are developing their own transit capabilities. Unfortunately, there is a risk that Ukraine will remain out of the process of developing the Danube Strategy of the European Union, its passivity in this direction greatly improves the capacity of our competitors. The importance of the region for the European Union is at least evidenced by the fact that 100 billion euros from the European socio-economic integration policy budget are envisaged for the implementation of the European strategy. At the same time, Ukraine has not created an effective mechanism for the use of international technical assistance, the use of international credit resources to finance joint projects. Unlike us, our neighbors and competitors have a real source of development. So I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues, the relevant ministries and authorities to the need to participate more actively, both in the development of the Danube strategy of the European Union and in the work of various European institutions in this region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u9	The Vijacheslav Kirilenko, a faction of "Our Ukraine - People’s Self - Defense", is being handed over by the national deputy of Vyjacheslav. Next is Michael Kossov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the “For Ukraine!” MP is obliged to draw the public's attention to a number of extremely serious threats to national security and Ukrainian national identity. And these threats come from the present authority. Above all, contrary to the Constitution and national interests, did the tendering begin to determine whether the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation would remain in Ukraine forever? The other one. Despite legislation and national interests, public and hidden negotiations are taking place on the transfer of the Ukrainian gas transport system to the Russian Gazprom. Thirdly, the current authorities are trying to add a nuclear cabal to the gas cable and monopolize nuclear fuel supplies only from the Russian Federation, as well as to build a harmful nuclear power plant from the processing of fuel under questionable technologies in Ukraine. All of this is uncontested, unreported, not taking into account Ukrainian national interests. National memory is kept secret. The archives of the BSS on the genocide of the Ukrainian people are closed. The official sites have disappeared, talking about 3 million 940 thousand, at least officially by the court, of the victims of the famine that had previously been posted on the authorities. Now this information is closed and the archives of the BSS continue to be classified. Thus, the national memory of the Ukrainian people is being despised. Instead, it is suggested that the memorials be placed, not to the victims, but to the dictators, as is the case with Stalin’s monument in Zaporozhye. Instead, it is suggested that the Red Flags be placed in the district centers and so forth. This means that in the future, such an anti - Ukrainian policy will lead to national turmoil, exacerbation of opposition, and an outbreak of civil disobedience. Since the opinion of the opposition in the hall is being despised, the patriotic forces that cry out for these violent violations of national interests say this without the prospect of being heard by the authorities, it is only to intensify their activities by attracting public attention to these issues. In addition, the anti - Ukrainian minister of education, Dmitri Tobacco, remains unresolved. Only the last of his “acquisitions”: the first is the abolition of Ukrainian language students in colleges; the second is the abolition of Ukrainian language testing in non-graduate classes; the third is the abolition of the obligation to externally evaluate the knowledge of graduates in national language; the fourth is the censoring of history textbooks; the fifth, which is not at all within his competence, the requirement to cancel the obligation to duplicate foreign films in Ukrainian to show in cinemas. [[in quotes]] And so on and so forth. The Anti - Ukrainian Minister of Education, Dmitri Tobacco, must be retired and we'll get it anyway. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u11	Mikhailo Vasilovich Kossov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Next will be Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u12	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear colleagues! I came to this rostrum with these documents. I don't know if you've noticed that yesterday's release of our newspaper, Voice of Ukraine, has published a report in the central editorial post: “Tomorrow Parliament plans to consider the budget.” [[that is, today]] In addition, a review of Ukraine’s State Economic and Social Development Programme is scheduled for tomorrow. I came to the registration table today because I think before 9th, because I think they're going to give us these 2010 development programs of Ukraine, they're going to give us a draft budget. Well, you know, it's nothing like that. Colleagues, there was a lot of talk here yesterday from this rostrum about the fact that the Party of Regions, when the government manager was Julia Timoshenko, was developing programs to help us. So I would like to remind you that, as of May 9, 2009, this Social and Economic Development Program of Ukraine was developed by the Cabinet of Yulia Timoshenko, where there are proposals from regional and communist parties, which are 195 pages, with more than 90 regional and communist proposals being taken into account. So why don't you take this job that's already done? The other one. In September, Ulya’s Cabinet of Ministers, Timoshenko, introduced Ukraine’s second social and economic development programme for 2010. Yes, please take the job. I have in my hands two volumes of the State Budget Act 2010 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, Timoshenko, in September last year. Yes, by the way, there are over a thousand suggestions that all of you have made. Listen, a colossal job is done, so why are you ignoring and pulling, pulling, pulling? I've known Mikola Azarov for 16 years, I've worked with him since the Supreme Council Presidency, but he won't write anything. Take what is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u13	Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Victor Terrence will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, in connection with the great deficit of the State Budget, are informed by the media, and we do not have a draft of this budget, the Ukrainian People’s Party proposes to the government a legally sound mechanism for increasing the income of Ukraine’s State Budget in the amount of at least 40 billion dollars. It is known that under the 2008 agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, Ukraine can move to market prices for the rent of Crimean land, as well as the infrastructure that is currently occupied under the Russian Black Sea fleet. As a result of that agreement, the Ukrainian People's Party is proposing to the government in 2010 to finally account for the energy transfers that were listed as Ukraine's sovereign debt to the Russian Federation. And in this way, let's look at prices for renting Crimea land and infrastructure under the Russian Black Sea fleet. Today, the leadership of the Russian Federation has virtually begun a dialogue about the establishment of a new lease. But they link this only to the continued presence of the Russian Black Sea fleet in Crimea outside 2017. It must be noted that this contradicts the valid Constitution. Because by adopting the Constitution in 96, the Transitional Statutes made it clear that foreign troops, the Russian Black Sea fleet, could be present in Ukraine until 2017. Therefore, statements regarding the connection of the new rent and the stay outside 2017 cannot be considered by the government today. This can only be settled through the mechanism that exists in the existing treaty. So the Ukrainian People's Party notes that in just two years of not making such proposals to the Supreme Council and to the government of Russia, we have lost more than five billion dollars. After all, at the prices that are now in place in Crimea, only land rents are to be between $2 and 2.5 billion per year. And with all infrastructure, this price could go up to $5 billion. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party believes that this is the only way that today’s government can.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u16	This is the only way that today’s government can overcome both the deficit of the state budget and work for the benefit of citizens and society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u17	Viktor Teren has the right to speak with Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko”. Uljana Mistpane will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, dear Mr. Head! I want to get your attention first, first, that's what. I realize that once the Constitution is cleared, when the heads of the members of the Constitutional Court are separated, such trifles may no longer matter. But I would like to remind you that a large skeleton of national MPs from most who have gone to executive positions has long since passed their mandate. I don't understand why my great Sherschun has his mandate in the woods and so on. But I want to draw weight to someone else. My opposition colleagues today have identified a number of threats to Ukraine: spiritual threats, economic threats, social threats. I want to add and remind you that the government of Yulia Timoshenko has actually approached this problem and has even been preparing a separate cabinet meeting on this issue. There's absolutely nothing Chernobyl has taught us today. We've been focusing today on social talk about Chernobyl, but we're not touching it at all, and in fact, Ukrainian society knows nothing about what's going on with this shelter today, the "Hidden" facility in Chernobyl. Recently, literally the Americans, literally in the daytime, re-allocated the donor money — $250 million. And I'm convinced that the area and this reactor are going to swallow them very quickly, they're going to eat a little bit of our physics, our academics, who are also terribly calmed down, that everything is fine and everything is fine. I want to bring to our voters today some, literally, nuances on this issue. It's been gone for a long time. It's been so large. Today it's all dispersion dust that lies on three levels. Today, don't bring God, the earthquake to about 5-6 points. and the lid is not fastened, it is just on the beams; and if suddenly, do not bring it, Lord, this lid will come down and break this dust, it may be a colossal force. I'm not scaring anyone, I was the first head of the Chernobyl Committee, I was building that committee, and I know a little bit about the level of politics, don't bring God, if that happens, we'll have a colossal force of explosion, much bigger than the Chernobyl disaster. And today everyone speaks calmly, swallows money, and virtually nothing is resolved. I want to say that in Ukraine, I'm convinced that super-professionals should be doing this, but today there's a group of scientists under the leadership of Shenderevich who made a device today that's capable of falling apart, let's say at 100 years of age, to reduce to 4-5 years. I am convinced that the government of Azarov today must come close to this problem and solve it, for we have a tremendous threat to Ukraine, and Russia and our many neighbors may be affected. It's very important. That's what happened the day before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u20	Because of this, before the Chernobyl disaster, I wanted to hit this Chernobyl bell on behalf of the Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u21	Uljana Mistpane, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u22	I give the floor to my colleague Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u23	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. The following will be the national deputy, Korge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I have to make a statement about the disqualification that has taken place in the walls of the Supreme Council since 28 January 2010, when the vote of the 198 people's deputies adopted a decision by the Supreme Council on the establishment of a temporary investigation committee to verify the legality of the transfer to the Janukovich government residence “Megirya”, whose project under registration number 5354 was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Mishchenko. Until now, there is no information on the signing and publication of this decree in the databases of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Starting in 2007, the government led by Yanukovič began a large-scale scheme for the disposal of property from the Desert Water resort, the “Medzigiriya Festival” of State ownership. In July 2007, the government is transferring “Megigira” to the statutory capital of Nadra Ukraine, which, through the conclusion of mine agreements, alienates the assets transferred to it for the benefit of TOV “Medinwesttrade”, after receiving two semi-destructed buildings in Kiev. At the same time, NAK “Nadra Ukraine” was agreed by the NAK Observation Board on the alienation of these “Megiriya” objects to the head of the company Stavitsky. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with article 85 of the Rules, the Act “On the Rules of the Supreme Council” has been established that a temporary special commission is made up of national deputies who have given their consent. The number of members of the commission is formed by taking into account the principle of proportional representation of MPs, and that the proposals for the number and personal composition of this commission are made in writing within a five-day period from the date of the written request of the initiator for the establishment of a temporary commission. In this commission, no less than one national member of each MP may be represented. If the faction has not offered representatives to work on a temporary special commission, the commission shall be established without the participation of the representatives of the faction. With reference to the fact that the parliamentary factions of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party have so far not offered representatives to work on the interim commission, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, MPs and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council – he is the head of the faction of the “Regions” – Ephraim refuses to submit an order for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council. In order to be objective in the work of the commission, we would like to see representatives of all the MPs participating. But since the MPs of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party, blocking almost three months is an unprecedented case in the history of the Supreme Council – the establishment of a temporary inquiry commission on the legality of the transfer to the rental of the Janukovich government residence of “Mježirja” and they did not give their representatives, we are forced to create a temporary commission without their representatives on the basis of the requirements of part two, part three, article 85, 87 of the Rules. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u25	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u26	Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich, ensure that the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure are implemented unconditionally in part with the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. We demand to sign an urgent decree, publish it and give society the opportunity to know the truth about the “admission” of 140 hectares of historic Ukrainian land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u27	Thank you. National Deputy Korge is handing over the right to speak to Vladimir Bondarenko, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u28	Vladimir Bondarenko, House of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of Reform and Order. The role of capitals in each state is defined as the leading centres, where culture, the art of political life, where industry, too, develops. The role of Kiev is not fully defined today. More than that, when it comes to the ruins of the land, when it comes to the terrible mess on the roads after the winter snowfall, the new authority came and declared that it would bring order, including in Kiev, and began to guide. What did you do? Some succeeded in calling Leonid Czerovecki in Kiev after nine periods of rest in Djibouti, Israel, and Switzerland. In Kiev he learned that there was snow, that roads were killed, that 350 or 400 people each day broke their legs, arms, or ribs. He learned this only by returning to Kiev, thanking God and thanking him for being here. What's next? There's been a silent replacement of the city of Kiev for the representatives of the Donetsk region and behind the backs of these heads of pounds that are sitting here today, and there are new people in their seats who are starting to get to know Kiev. Although I would say that the Party of Regions had a very serious opportunity in Kiev before. The party's representative Vasil Hmelnicki and Andrija Ivanova have long owned the Kyivenergo sector, Kyivvok Kanalu, Kyivgazu, the breadmaking industry, the pine-mill industry, and a large construction sector in Kiev. So this was done by the cavalryman of the Order of Jaroslav the Wise Chernewicki, who sought protection not only under the roof of Viktor Yushchenk but now under the roof of Viktor Yanukovich. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, despite the very serious comments made about the work of this administration, direct appeals to the Attorney General's Office and all other institutions, pending cases of privatization by students of the Kiev universities who have just arrived in Kiev, hundreds of thousands of land areas have remained. In fact, destruction of the coastal zone. So when Mr. Sovkovic says today that he's asking for materials, I'm asking him to go back to the student distribution of land for bribes. These students don't own this area, they pass it on to the barricades that have a hundred and more hectares today. I note that 71 million in the criminal case of the spoiling of oil have been so dependent, and nine of my letters to the Attorney General’s Office so far remain unanswered. So today I am making a direct parliamentary appeal or a request to Mr. Sovkovic about these matters. I'm still going to repeat this in writing, but the fact that today the capital is being prepared for a quiet transfer to another political power without an election, because the law that is being considered did not foresee the election of the Kiev mayor, so this is the biggest crime against the Chinese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time is up, the speeches are over. Regarding the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. In particular, with regard to the referrals directly to me, I reply: On Friday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider depriving the mandate of the deputies who have moved to the executive branch in view of the fact that there will be a committee meeting, it will formally take the appropriate decisions there, and we in the Supreme Council of Ukraine will vote in favour of losing their mandates. Second, regarding the proposal for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss issues related to the consequences of the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear station. There is such an offer. I'm turning to the opposition. At your suggestion, we all decided on Friday that there should be an hour of questions to the government, especially to the Minister for Agrarian Policy. Perhaps it would be a matter of a change of approach and an offer on Friday to listen to the minister in order to answer the question. And for the next plenary week, on the following Friday, we will postpone hearings about the minister of agrarian politics. If you support such an idea, time is running out, let's do it. No, then tomorrow we'll take the appropriate decision, which is worked out by our committee of profile, and we'll consider it on Thursday first. As for the interim commission of inquiry, the registration number of the draft decree 5354, I take the view of the distinguished colleague Yuri Karmazin. At the same time, I am writing to you, the distinguished faction leaders, on the third, twice in writing: Make appropriate proposals for personal candidates to work on committees. And I'm asking the Committee on Rules, MPs, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare an appropriate draft decree to be issued as a decree. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the issues scheduled for Wednesday, April 14. A draft Act amending article 217 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the duties of the investigator]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Mishchenko. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. When the reporter offers the procedure, we will respond accordingly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I propose that we consider this bill and the following bills as a summary procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u31	We can only vote one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u32	If you please, let's vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u33	I'm voting on the proposal to review Bill 6044 for a reduced procedure. [[10:38:10]] For 334 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u34	Thank you for your first support, I think a bill will be supported in such a constructive way. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that two weeks later, we considered my bill, which referred to the amendments to article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, where we voted by almost 400 votes in favour of a criminal investigation officer giving a description of these materials to the accused and his lawyer. In order not to falsify a criminal case when the case comes to trial. And we had a discussion about the fact that such rights should be granted and suffered by the person and her lawyer. Therefore, although they were almost simultaneously introduced, they were divided by time, i.e. the bill we voted on that plenary week, this bill, which already concerns the rights of the victim and his guardian, so that the investigator also gives a description of the material of the case entrusted to these persons. In order to avoid falsifying the material of the matter. So, as far as I know that the Committee on Law Protection is ready for second reading to present the bill already, but I urge that if we now vote on this bill as a whole, these two bills, the amendments to 218, 217 after the second reading be put into plenary session at the same time, so that they can enter into force at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u35	Thank you, please sit down. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u36	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mihajlovich, Mr. Sergey Mishchenko has made clear the position of his bill on amendments to article 217 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. I would stress only that his legislative initiative was stimulated by the Hall, discussing its previous bill on amendments to article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The committee considered both bills, a bill on the defendant's right to have a copy of the material of the case in hand ready for hearing in a second reading. Bill number 6044 suggests approval in the first reading, and so does the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. And literally, if you honorary colleagues support this bill, we will bring them both, which is your will, into the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill must certainly be supported because we must also protect human rights, especially human rights, which interacts with a criminal investigator. We have a lot of examples where when we bring a case to trial, we fake evidence that they're disappearing somewhere. So if we adopt this bill, we will protect everyone's rights and we will ensure a very valid and understandable attitude towards the legislation of our country, and this will represent the main thing that our head of state, Viktor Janukovic, has said, "that Ukraine should be for people." So we're protecting people who are involved in criminal trials, in public trials, and, in general, it's a very faithful and correct bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u39	Oleg Laszko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u40	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The draft Act amending article 217 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code is aimed at protecting the interests of Ukrainian citizens. In particular, the bill proposes to grant the victim and his representative, the civil prosecutor, the defendant and their representatives the right to receive copies of the material of the pretrial investigation. In addition, the draft law stipulates that the investigator and his representative be required to deliver duly certified copies and descriptions of the material of the criminal case, as proposed in the report on the completion of the investigation and on the presentation of the material of the case. That's a very good offer. In order to avoid mass cases, citizens complain about the falsification of criminal cases when documents that have not been made available in the previous investigation or have disappeared to show that they are mitigating the suspect’s guilt or proving his innocence. So we should thank Mishchenk’s colleague Sergey Grigorovich, who has many years of experience in prosecutorial work and knows better than anyone what can be done in a pretrial investigation in order to prove that the accused or the suspect is guilty. Therefore, I think that this bill must be supported in order to enable Ukrainian citizens to obtain additional safeguards in criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u41	Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u42	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. These legislative initiatives are absolutely practical. And those here in the session room who have dealt with law enforcement, whether they themselves have been investigators in their own time, well know that this is a common practice. Once the materials are passed on to the accused, there are manipulations and not only removals of the materials, but also the attachments of those or other materials that the accused knows absolutely nothing about, so it's the right bill. In this regard, I would like to refer to the profile committee to see the bill that I have initiated, where the confession of the accused cannot be regarded as the main evidence. Because everyone knows very well how this confession in Ukrainian terms is broken down, pursued by what methods, it can only be secondary. And this bill is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u43	Just a minute. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Who raises his hand? Ivan Vernidubov, microphone, please, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the law must be passed, but the warning is still the same as the warning of the previous law, there is a description and it will have to be removed. So I propose to accept only in the first reading, I mean where it is proposed to complete the article with a new part five, it is written: “right to get copies of the materials of the trial”, a copy of the description of the materials, this agreement will certainly be from these deputies. But we know that there are criminal cases where there are 100 volumes, and of course we can't give copies of the case material to the victim or the accused, so this will have to be removed in further consideration of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed, the committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending article 217 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, registration number 6044. [[on the duties of the investigator]] [[10:47:37]] For 387 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding the non-abuse of the right to appeal, the rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Olijnik Svetoslav, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Justice vadim Koleshnenko. [[Registration number 6109]] And the author suggests that we consider this bill in a simplified way. No objections? I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:48:30.]] For 165 Decision taken. Please, your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, you are now taking into account Bill No. 6109 on the non-abuse of the right to appeal. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act “On the Higher Council of Justice” in Ukraine, there is a constitutional body of the Supreme Council of Justice consisting of a quota principle of representatives of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the meeting of judges of Ukraine, representatives of scientific legal institutions, the meeting of the Bar Association, the Attorney General's Office and the Minister of Justice. The competence of this constitutional body includes, in particular, the question of disciplinary responsibility regarding judges when they broke an oath. Today, there are many complaints in society that the judicial system does not always work effectively and qualitatively. But I am convinced that this is to some extent due to the ineffective application of the mechanism of bringing judges into disciplinary responsibility. In practice, the Higher Council of Justice determines that a judge or a judge has broken an oath. But then, according to unregulated law, a court action is initiated when the decision of the constitutional authority goes to the first instance of the court. Half a year or so it's being considered there, no matter what the decision is, it's going to the Court of Appeal, and so on for two or three years. After it has been established that the judge broke his oath, the judge is still working and continues to exercise justice. For the purpose of this bill, authors, national deputies Olijnik, Philippeenko, Pisarenko, and Rudchenko propose to establish a short, similar procedure from the Central Electoral Commission, solely to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, which is obliged to deal with a complaint within one month. the decision of the High Council of Justice and this decision is final and is not to be charged. The purpose of this bill is to make it more effective for judges who have broken their oaths to be released. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice proposes the adoption of a bill as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u47	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Justice, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered at its meeting on March 03, this year a draft Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the non-abuse of the right to appeal filed by Ukrainian national deputies Olijnik and Rudchenk. Registration number 6109. It should be noted that according to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice, which is to be recognized as applying for the appointment of judges for posts or for their dismissal. Decision-making with regard to infringements by judges, prosecutors of non-conformity claims, disciplinary conduct with regard to judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and judges of the higher specialized courts, and consideration of complaints about the decision to involve judges of appeals and local courts and prosecutors in disciplinary proceedings. Article 27 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice grants the Higher Council of Justice, within its powers, to adopt appropriate acts which are mandatory for implementation. At the same time, in accordance with legislation, such acts may also be the subject of judicial action. At the same time, the lack of clearly established jurisdiction and jurisdiction over charges against the High Council of Justice has led to abuses of the right to a judicial charge. Acceptance of the project will help prevent abuses of the right to complain about cases that are the subject of acts of the High Council of Justice. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the provisions of article 93, part one and third, of the Rules, reported that the proposed bill had been registered in accordance with the requirements of articles 90, 92 of the Rules. Taking into account the committee's presentation, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted in the first reading on the basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. People's deputies' names on the board, please. People's MP Philippeenko, faction of Yulia Tymoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to try a little bit of a practical side of the question. The point is that the Supreme Council of Justice, as a constitutional body, is authorized to apply to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of judges from office for breach of oath. It is not uncommon for such motions to be made on the basis of our parliamentary appeals, where we, as deputies, establish a possible violation of the oath by judges, and the Superior Council of Justice sets all of this in proper form. And what happens then? The application comes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Committee and the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot take a decision on this issue, because the judge who broke the oath does not rarely abuse his rights to appeal. He goes to the district court according to civil procedure law, then goes to the Kyiv District Administrative Court under the Code of Administrative Judiciality, then goes to the appeal procedure, both in appeal and in cassation. And often, as the reporter has already pointed out, the case is about accusing the Supreme Court of Justice's decision in court for years. And we can't fire the judge that's left in the judicial system. Therefore, this law will in fact contribute to the improvement of the functions of the High Council of Justice regarding the application of the exemption of judges for breach of oath and will simplify the mechanism for the release of such judges by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I support the committee's decision to vote on this bill as a whole, so please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u51	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of Regions, please microphone. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u52	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The law is legally motivated, processive, and does not conflict with the Constitution. Why? Because justice in the state is created according to territoriality and specialization. But sometimes some judges, misusing what is termed “procedural terrorism”, that is, failing to attend meetings on artificial grounds, in the hospital, then have a ground for complaint. But this decision, namely, the Supreme Council, is being challenged by the Higher Council of Justice for its place of residence. Think of the new story. There have been such cases when a judge, not to say from which region, did not comply with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but accused him of his place of residence. And by the way, today this judge is working. So the Supreme Council released him, the High Council of Justice accordingly made the submission, the committee reported. But the judge still works. So I believe that this bill does not conflict with the Constitution, it needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u53	Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the "Block of Lithuania". Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u54	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is a respected previous colleague who said that this bill does not conflict with the Constitution. It really does not conflict with the Constitution. The Constitution contradicts only the content of the judicial system in Ukraine. Because constitutional freedoms and people's rights are not only ignored by a large number of judges, but they just walk, and they pat on those freedoms and people's rights. And in the Human Rights Committee there are so many complaints, and there are so many painful complaints about what the siblings are doing, that I think they're going to be able to sue after deciding that the judge broke his oath for six months, a year, two years, and more that this so-called judge should continue to do justice, that's a violation of the Constitution. So if this rule is meant to be, if it is already determined that the judge has shown himself to be a bribe, and in most cases it is. When it comes to violating the Constitution, when judges, if they apologize for the jargon, complain that they are simply banging on people’s rights, it is necessary to make sure that the judge is no longer a judge the next day after the decision is made. And instead of using our system of things imperfect then, as I said, after two years, I continued to judge in the same way. We need to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u55	Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u56	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Unlike the three previous speakers, I am really against this bill, and I think that this is where the constitutional rights of citizens are gravely violated by this bill. Secondly, there is a proposal to turn the Higher Council of Justice into a really subject of authority over the judicial system, which is clearly contrary to the principle of the independence of the courts and judges, and is unacceptable in a democratic country. I'm going to make this a specific text of norms, not talk about problems. First of all, I would like to remind everyone that it has been recalled that the Supreme Council of Justice on disciplinary conduct offers only proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the decision-making process. The final decision itself does not. However, the proposal for an indictment, the right to charge an act of the High Council of Justice, is proposed only to persons for whom it has already been applied, not accepted. I mean, until it's applied, we're even denying the right to sue. As for the fact that we are depriving Ukrainian citizens of what judges are and who are exercising all civil rights, the right to appeal and cascasation of decisions that deprive them of their jobs, I think there is also enough for the unconstitutionality of this norm. And the last. If anyone thinks that the courts are bribes, and the Supreme Council of Justice is sinless, then I think it's a profound mistake. And anyway, bribery is not a disciplinary offense, it's a criminal offense. And you don't have to confuse each other. I definitely do not want this bill to be accepted as a whole. I'll make amends to him, and that's my right. But I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this bill, which definitively eliminates the independence of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. I understand. I'm saying that now we're going to put the vote to accept it as a basis. And since there is a denial, we can place it at the request of the hall. Just a minute. You listen first, then you scream. The rules were mentioned. You can put it to a vote -- preparation for a second reading by a reduced procedure. You don't want to listen and shout. I therefore put to the vote the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the non-abuse of the right of appeal to accept it as a basis. [[Registration number 6109]] Please vote. [[11:00:32]] For 236 Decision taken. The committee offered to accept it as a whole. Since there is a denial, the proposal to prepare for the second reading is put to the vote by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:00:59]] For 221 The decision is not taken. So we're working on a full procedure. The draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5527]] At the same time, I received a letter from the committee and from the author of the bill: “Please withdraw the draft Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres Artek and Youth Guard. I understand that. Do you want me to postpone the hearing? Should I Take It Off? Because if we're asked to take it off here, that means we're voting it, and it's off-limits. Please, is there a committee head? Turn on the microphone. Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, since we have reviewed this law repeatedly, and at the previous session, and, by the way, he was first accepted by 390 votes. But since there are some disputes between factions, including coalition issues, the very content of this statement was to transpose the law and vote in favour of the passing of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u59	I'll put it to a vote. Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that the summer health season is about to come when you and I need to take care of the health of the population and the health of the growing generation. That is why this law is essential. And for good reason, 390 deputies made that decision. The only puzzle was that, and the language applied to both the Arteka and the Odessa Youth Guard, which they tried to dismember, stretch out all the time, and it says here that they are state-owned enterprises and refer to the administration of the central executive body, as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The only question is that they want everything to be in the State Administration all the time. One president was -- they're pulling under the Dusu, the other president, and unfortunately, the third one's pulling on the DUS as well. So let's call things our names: you want to take things off just because there's a desire to stay in the Duc and do nothing for preparation right now before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u61	Katerina Samuels, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u62	Yuri Anatolyevich, you're a little wrong. It's just that the drafters wrongly wrote about two camps. The “young Guard” already belongs to the Ministry of Family, Children and Youth. Hence, because of such a mistake. We're just asking for a transfer, we're working on this bill, first. The other one. You're right to say that we're going to an 85-year-old "Artec" meeting in June. The best solution was to grant national status to the International Children's Centre, Artek. And by the way, the Cabinet of Ministers. The Supreme Council of Ukraine said its word on this account. We've made the right decision, we've sent it to the President of Ukraine, the previous one asking for national status, and that would be a single unit, it wouldn't depend on political winds, elections, that kind of thing. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u63	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u64	And so, dear colleagues, I very much ask you, let us vote with you, as we wrote there, for the transfer of the question. We will agree on all issues, but I want this to be perhaps a protocol commission by the President's Administration, so that we can return to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the status of the national “Artec” solves all absolutely controversial issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u65	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, well, we are no longer on yesterday when there was a conflict between the President and the Prime Minister and the political field and about corporate interests, and overburden and transfer of property, etc. Today, a team came: The President, the majority of Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, is a team of professionals who work for the country. I told the authors that both the President's Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers should be consulted and that a single, correct decision should be made on how to manage this Artek better. It was rightly said that it was likely that the status of the nationals would decide much, that was the most important. Therefore, since such consultations have not been conducted and the law is being promulgated, it is irritable, so in this situation it will simply go under the knife of the law. No one will be able to bring a wedge between the President's Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers, sir. We are. This law "will go under the knife".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. There are two suggestions. The first is to clarify the committee’s proposal because it sounded like this: “Please withdraw and vote in favour of delaying the consideration of this bill. That's the first one. The other one. I will ask your approval of the President of Ukraine to respond to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is acting independently of who the President is. If a decision is made to grant the status "national", it will remove all of the problems in fact. If not, then we will ask the committee to finalize the relevant bill by removing everything relating to the Young Guard, and then we will return to this issue. Is there no objection? With this in mind, I am voting on the motion to postpone consideration of the draft law, please vote. [[Registration number 5527]] [[11:08:03]] For 315 Decision taken. And I ask the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate address for the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, registration number 2245, is being proposed for consideration. [[about Ukraine’s National Television and Radio Company]] At the same time, there is a letter from the committee on the transfer of the matter to the next plenary week from April 27 to 30. There is no reason for this thesis. Andrew Shevchenko, please give your reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u68	My colleagues, I just want to say briefly that this law is very important, it provides guarantees for the independence of state television and radio, financial independence, personnel and independence in editorial policy. But in those two years, that law was waiting. The bill waited for its consideration, and new circumstances arose. You know that last September the Constitutional Court passed a special decision prohibiting the President and the Supreme Council from interfering with the process of appointing heads of state television and radio. In this regard, you know, there was a certain conflict with the change in the leadership of the National Television Company. Therefore, after consulting the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, we ask representatives of other factions to postpone consideration of the matter. We will consider a joint vote on the transfer of this matter. And as a gesture of goodwill, and our confirmation that we believe in the value that state television should work, not for power or opposition, but for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, if there are no other proposals, I am voting on the committee's motion to move the bill to the plenary week of April 27-30. [[Registration number 2445]] [[11:10:11]] For 328 Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on the identification of social advertising and the regulation of individual types of advertising activities of political parties and public organisations]] [[Registration number 3002]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u70	Please consider the short procedure of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u71	I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 3002]] [[11:11:04]] For-179 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill has been drafted by representatives of all the political forces represented in the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information and is the result of the work of the relevant working group. I will note that the committee decided to address the problem after discussing the legislative initiatives of Oleg Zarubinski, who drew attention to the gaps in existing legislation and became active in the work of the working group. The adoption of the project is prompted by the need for legislative restrictions on the capacity of public authorities to use social advertising to promote their political parties, their programmes and leaders, as well as the need for more detailed regulation of party participation, public organizations in advertising. The first part of the project, which deals with social advertising, calls for a mandatory reference to the advertiser of social advertising in the case of public authorities, local governments, their officials. The second part of the project, which deals with party advertising and public organisations outside the electoral process, foresees: in the inter-election period, promotion of programmes, political measures, the activities of the parties, or members of the party, will be carried out under the general conditions set out in the Ukrainian Advertising Act, with special exceptions, since the individual general requirements for advertising of the above-mentioned entities cannot be applied by virtue of the specificity and not the commercial purpose of its advertising. Note that the mechanical instruction that advertising is permitted under the general conditions established by the Ukrainian Advertising Act will lead to the impossibility of distributing party advertising. There is a ban on the distribution of advertising on behalf, but the consent of the respective party is determined by cases where imitation or copying of party symbols is prohibited in the relevant advertisement. In our view, the adoption of this bill will improve legal regulation in the field of advertising.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u74	It will prevent the emergence of legal collegiates regarding the identification of advertising, as well as reduce the spread of hidden political advertisements. Please support this bill with its apolitical character. Also, the committee accepted him and offered to accept him as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block. Andrew Shevchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u76	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a distinguished colleague, said the committee representative correctly that about one and a half years ago, if not two and a half years ago, I passed an appropriate bill looking at what was going on in the Ukrainian information space. And there was social advertising, direct action, aimed at agitation and propaganda for a particular political power or bloc, for specific politicians, and so forth. This is unacceptable in any civilized state. Because the very essence of social advertising is not agitation and propaganda on a political scale, it's promoting positive transformation, it's pedaling social issues and so on. Unfortunately, it's only now that this bill is being considered, frankly, because during the presidential election campaign on all television channels, we saw, not social advertising, but really political advertising in the form of social advertising. And that's why in this bill, I think it's spelled out correctly enough that it's social advertising and it's not social advertising. He is not political or ideological, despite the fact that I may have touched political things. It's supposed to match the democratic tradition of modern television and modern media. Thank you and I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u77	Andrew Shevchenko, microphone, please turn on the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u78	We're going to support this bill, and I want to say as a journalist that I think it's a very correct start, and it's very happy that it's being initiated by representatives of different political forces, so this is a superparty initiative. Beyond all else, I have high hopes that this law will be one of the steps and to resolve the problem of hidden advertising or jeans, as journalists call it. Because if we look at the situation in the media space, we see serious threats that have to do with censorship on the one hand, and censorship on the one hand, and we see that in the last weeks, literally, the rising shaft is going in that direction. The same is true of another threat associated with hidden advertising or jeans with unscrupulous journalistic work. I think this bill is going to be one of the most important steps in a very filigree job, when we don't limit freedom of speech, we give the media a healthy, valuable and quality game rules from which society in general wins, and journalists in particular, and the media. It's a shame that this bill wasn't considered in the presidential election, maybe it would change the atmosphere of these elections. And I very much expect that the subsequent elections that will take place in Ukraine will go into an atmosphere that is much better for the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u79	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! I'm very grateful that we finally started talking, including about advertising. And I want to talk about social advertising right now, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for three days now, three times the Chinese are being brutally bullied by the cable monopoly, and nothing is done by the Antimonopoly Committee, and I'm talking to Mr. Kostuyev, nothing is done by the National Council on Television and Radio Talking, the Chinese are kneeling, they're being forced to buy some digital equipment and so on. Look at Odessa, 90 channels at three times the price of cable. That's what monopolism is all about! I'm speaking out against monopolies, I'm talking to the Committee on Freedom of Speech, I hope you don't have founders there, and you're going to look at this question, and you're going to stop what the TVs are now in Kiev -- they're off. The "voluntary cable" is pushing people like that. There's no protection. Well, of course we haven't had a prosecutor's office for a long time, it doesn't have general supervision or it does it on orders if these orders are made by the authorities. Yes, dear friends! To this law, the first article of social advertising has to be supported. As for the addition of the law to article 12 of the prime law. The content of “that political parties and public organizations and advertising activities” would be very careful to do so, because there is nowhere in which you can put anything, because the written political party has to give consent. As the party's head, I won't even sign if the party's central authority doesn't sign, look. This ridiculous formation is the first. Secondly, let's get this over with in society, that Inter is already 8 programs in a row, there is no opposition, there is no opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u82	I'm done. So, dear friends, I'd like us to make demands if we're already on the political party program and we're talking about advertising, equal opportunities for access to that ad and equal time then some kind of adequate. The possibilities are at least comparable, because I see that the oligarchs have captured all the TV channels and are now burning people up to rob them even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u83	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of Regions, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u84	Thank you, Landik, Party of Regions. I signed up as opposed to, well it's to stand up, but I'm behind this law, as I am its co-author. But I cannot help but agree with the conclusions of the Legal Office and this new article, which introduces 12.1 which reads: “Political parties, public organizations and advertising.” It would probably be useful to put it in a new edition and say, “Advertisement of political parties and public organisations” and that would be better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The proposal was one, to accept the bill as a basis. There's no other offer? None. A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on the identification of social advertising and the regulation of certain types of advertising, political parties and public organisations]] Registration number 3002. Please vote. [[11:21:29]] For 353 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your attention is on the proposal of a draft law on the circulation of weapons of non-military use. Registration number 2105. Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u86	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your honor, I will report a bill from the group of authors and from the committee. And, if possible, put to the vote by a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u87	Please, you suggest, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. [[11:22:27]] For 185 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I am already in the third call to Parliament and bills of similar orientation have been submitted from time to time to the Supreme Council, usually they have not found support. At the last assembly, drafts were submitted to me personally again, Mr. Vasil Gretzak, Mr. Yuri Prokopczuk, and were noted for these bills. To this day we have united this bill into one. And I'm going to report it from the authors and so is Boris Mikolaiovich Pudova. Dear colleagues, today there are more than one and a half million guns registered with citizens in our country, and probably not less than a quarter of them are in circulation without registration. The Constitution allows for the possession of weapons. And article 92 defines the legal regime of property in our country. Despite these explicit constitutional provisions, in the country so far the issue of the acquisition of ownership of weapons of nonmilitary use is regulated by legal regulations. First of all, these are the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Departments and other departments. By regulating the legal relationship you are considering, the draft law strengthens the protection of life, the health of citizens, their property, the prevention of illicit proliferation and arms circulation, and strengthens international cooperation in these matters. The legislation on arms circulation, honourable colleagues, will allow full application of the relevant rules of the Forest Code, the laws of Ukraine on rail transport, on electricity, on environmental protection, and on the National Bank, which provide for the right in these departments to have special arms units. Project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u89	Please, you're also from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u90	The project does not provide for citizens to be granted the right to acquire, store and carry short - term firearms as weapons of self - defense. This is a very important position. At the same time, the rules of the project set out the order of circulation of such weapons for ministries, departments, and other organizations. An expanded list of self - defense weapons authorized by citizens is available with pistols and revolvers designed to shoot bullets equipped with rubber or similar metal shells. The characteristics of the weapons are given. It is written down as to which institution has the right to have a weapon. The age of citizens is set for the purchase of weapons. The issue of allowing foreigners to have weapons is being raised in Ukraine. And in the end, I'm going to say, in the absence of time, that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has made a note of the bill, honourable colleagues, but in general, it recommends taking it as a basis. The same is true of our committee. And one more thing. When we were in this room listening to the Protection Act, which is being prepared for second reading, the Private Detective Activity Act, which is not supported by you, we referred to the absence of the Weapons Circumstances Act. So that we can integrate these laws to regulate the activities of the so-called non-state sphere of security. We also need to approve the Warfare Act. Thank you very much, and I ask you, dear colleagues, in the first reading to support him. Such laws are already in force in some.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, report, report completed. Let's move on to the bill. Please sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Prokopchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Valérie Konovaluk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, indeed, this bill has long been outlawed, it has spent more than 10 years in corridors and committees and in the Supreme Council itself. And what the reporter said today is that he holds several more bills that cannot be considered without this bill is, indeed, true truth. Actually, Vladimir Romanovich did not sound where the laws had already been enacted. For example, if we are even oriented toward neighbors, such a law has long been in force in the Russian Federation. In addition, there are a lot of sub-legal acts of various powers that completely balance the entire arms accounting and control system, because the more documents that are made by the authorities and institutions themselves, the more, let's say, those are the moments that allow people who do not have the right to acquire such weapons to obtain them. These issues will be settled by law once and for all, and will be made clear to the legal plane of all institutions and structures that have the right to carry, store and use weapons, and will place the arms circulation in Ukraine under control. Because as one of the drafters of the bill, I'm asking you to support this bill. I also report that all the institutions that carried out the expertise of the bill, in fact and amendments, are all included in the law, which were of three united into one, that is, a fundamental work that will enable all these issues to be settled. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u93	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, the question is complex enough. And it needs to be defined not only with regard to the regulatory rules laid down in the legislation but also with the understanding that there is actually enough shadow, uncontrolled weapons, circulation in Ukraine. And in this regard today, we need to generalize not only the proposals that are in the draft law today, but a clear system that has improved the allowable and controlling functions. I'm convinced that we have many examples, as well as the increase in crime in the country, it's actually caused by this phenomenon. And you can shoot a man with impunity, as was the case in the Kirovograd region, former Lozinski deputy. And many other examples are cited. But the issue really requires a legislative settlement. I want you to just ask the authors of this bill to really make a proposal today and to consider this question for a second reading, taking into account the position first of all the relevant ministries, the authorities that actually have to make a part of their proposals and understanding today, how this needs to be reorganized in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u95	Gennady Hennadiovich Moskal, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you not to uphold this lobbyist law. So look what's going on in the streets. Today we have to have a level of general legal culture, as someone said, in our neighbours. Every day, shootings at cafes, restaurants, and special forces bars are loaded with rubber bullets. Who published it? Absolutely on some kind of temporary instruction and stuff. Today, society is not ready. Look, only in the first quarter of the Ministry of Interior statistics, the increase in serious crimes: Dnipropetrovska – plus 64, Donetska – plus 45, Chernigivska – 41 and so on. If there were 84,000 serious crimes, it is now 120,000 in the first quarter alone. There is no day where children are shot from the balcony, no harm was done. People are unrestrained, many are in a depressed state. Only for the calculation of about 2,000 people with mental illness. How many are there that are not there? Today, in such a difficult economic situation, we still want to give people arms. You don't have to give corneas today, not just guns. I ask you, lobbyist interests of the Fore State Enterprise, let them lobby wherever they want, but not in Parliament. This is purely a lobbyist law in order to increase production. The arms trade, you know, human trafficking and prostitution are the main types of income of international criminal organizations. If we want to go in there again, let's go in with Parliament. Please refrain from voting again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else insists on expressing their position? People's representative of Pudov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, is a representative of the force structure that has been holding back the adoption of this law for two decades. And the fears that they're telling us about weapons, they're handing out these weapons, they're often handing out thousands of uncontrolled cannons, with their own personal benefit. Moreover, they have created a host of structures that have the right to survey people. And tell me what absurd things are being done, let's say in the same Kiev area. In just one populace, one of the durds, at their direction, can issue such a certificate and people have to drive to register smooth weapons. Yet, even at the time of that regime of repressive Stalin, a man could buy a smooth barrel for a hunting ticket. Now there are so many obstacles and so many, I'm sorry, vacchanals. And the militia is in the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u99	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I do not refer to the weapons lobbyists, but I would like to point out the following: The gun has long been in the hands of criminals. And it's often more or less that good citizens are victims of what criminals have weapons. How? I think not without the help of law enforcement agencies, that's the first. But to say that this bill can be adopted today or in the near future in general, well, it's hardly possible. There's enough scientific expertise to make. Well, even such a precise, targeted observation that there are not enough electric shockers involved in the list of these non-military weapons, and they are now being used in the streets by enough thieves, that's what it's called. There are many unwritten things, although the idea needs to be supported, perhaps on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u101	Yes, Victor Ivanovich Ratushnjak is the deputy minister of the interior. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Internal Affairs has been working on a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Circulation of Weapons of Non-military Assignment. [[Registration number 2105]] As a result of the committee's work, an expert conclusion was drawn to the draft Ukrainian law on the circulation of weapons of non-military use, number 3977. In general, I would like to point out that almost 50 comments and suggestions have been put forward to the draft Ukrainian Arms Circumstances Act by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I want to point out that none of these comments and suggestions are taken into account by the authors in the law. Thus, a draft of Ukraine’s Arms Circumstances Act of 09.02. It is not supported with regard to its first reading in 2009, since it requires serious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I can't give you any more, Your Honor, the right to speak. Short-term procedure. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Internal Affairs towards your well-known, distinguished colleagues has been proven. With this in mind, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law on the circulation of weapons of non-military use. [[Registration number 2105]] [[11:37:29]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending articles 5 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law is being announced. [[One minute, don't hurry, please don't hurry. There's a committee, and there's a reporter.]] The draft Act amending articles 5 and 8 of the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance to low-income families is announced for consideration." [[on aid at minimum of living]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number, once again, 1416]] I inform you, Your Honor, of the situation with this bill. As you know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted it in its first reading on the basis of 9.02.2010. At the same time, a decision was made to instruct the committee to prepare it for the second reading under the reduced procedure. Regrettably, I have to say that the committee has not dealt with this issue for second reading and has not properly prepared materials that are not distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Instead, I received a proposal from responsible Alexander Stoyan today: To move to the next sessional week a review of the draft Law in view of the fact that only today will a comparative table, with respect and corresponding signature, be considered at the committee meeting. That's why we have it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute. I can see everything. The Pavlovsky People’s Deputy passed on to me just 15 minutes before the question was considered, a table that was neither in the MPs nor, according to all, was considered on the committee. So, your honor, here's an appeal to the committee if the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u104	So, what are you, a committee member?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u105	So what? So work on the committee. Why aren't you working, the committee isn't holding a meeting? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear fellows, I'd like to ask you now, given that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute. I understand there are no amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you again, calm down, listen to the end. So the proposal is for the committee today to have them hold meetings. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. I. [[B in m in s a l in]] And take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: in case the committee does not consider this bill, bring it up for consideration for adoption in its original form. We've done this once before. But we have a decision to make. Taking into account this offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one. Well, you didn't listen! With this proposal in mind, I ask each faction for one minute to express its position. Please, from the Communist faction. You don't? The faction of the Party of the Regions is Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, on the right is purely technical. What is it? After the vote of this law was placed in the hall and in the second reading he would have obtained only 203 votes, in fact he would have been removed. After that, we asked the regulatory committee how we could proceed. Next, Papiev, as the author of the law, appealed to the Ministry of Finance to request the date of the accounts that had recently arrived. On March 3, there was a committee meeting at which it was decided to reject the law in view of the fact that it had not passed through the Supreme Council. But given the importance of this law, we continued to work on it and asked for suggestions. Suggestions for second reading came in late, and only today has a committee review been made. So allow us today to consider all the suggestions on the committee and to postpone it for the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u107	Yes, please, Oleg Zarubinski. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! It takes a process or a goal for yourself to determine. If you insist on the process to then say something, advertising. More specifically, not advertising, but declarations, declarations, and so on, it is likely that we should consider now, and the bill will be broken. Our faction is not interested in the process, but in the result. We want the right things to be normalized. And so if there is no appropriate decision on the committee today, we need to ask the committee to meet and that is the decision. If this committee is unable to do so, then the Supreme Council, and today we have to determine it, will be without the committee's decision to make that decision. If the process is necessary to then perform on the rostrum, well, then do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u109	Sergey Sobolev, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the position of the Yulia Timoshenko faction is obvious. In fact, the Party of Regions, which now has an absolute majority on the committee, has ruined the consideration of this issue. Moreover, we have just heard in the hall that there was a decision by the faction of the Regions that this bill was rejected. That is why we have every reason, according to the Rules, for a bill that enables us to directly compare living minimums directly to families that are underserved in the hall. We had this precedent when the changes to the Rules were considered by a table distributed by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council without agreement with the Committee, without agreement with the Scientific and Expert Authority. Today, such a table is ready, and the proposal is clear: To adopt the bill that was voted in the first reading. We have every reason to consider. A committee decision has been announced. The committee didn't support it. And the position of the hall will be obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u111	The arduous deputy of Vizevski, the faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u112	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. As committee secretary, I would like to express my position. It is not right to mislead members of our committee who claim to have rejected this bill. In fact, we did not consider him on the committee. This is a fact. Moreover, I would like to say that such practices have been used to block the work of the committee, such as the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and we now see the same practice from the Party of Regions. There were only two amendments that did not actually specify the date of the introduction of the bill. So it would be quite fair right now to accept these amendments in voting mode and to stop at it, as the Party of Regions has suggested, that this bill, together with the Party of Regions, in which they were very plentiful, be accepted with the session hall, and that we put a dot in this delicate situation. Because people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u113	Please, Your Honor, let us now find out, from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, what he will say on this matter, and we will continue to make a decision. Please, the microphone. Vitaly Vadimovich, right? Please. Muschini.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, we also believe that today this bill needs to be finalized by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. That's the first one. The other one. That the general standards of this bill provide that a difference in living minimum is possible only after the financial and economic situation in Ukraine is stabilised. It's a very social bill, but today we would like to point out that its adoption, in our view, needs to be implemented in a very balanced way. Today, according to various accounts, the bill’s price is about 16 billion dollars, and more than 400,000 families will receive such assistance on a low-security basis. And I want to say one more word, I want to say the following, that families with income of 2.5 thousand dollars will also receive assistance at 130-140 dollars. So today we're creating a sustainable mood among the population, it's better not to work, it's better not to get busy, it's better to get government help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u115	Dear National Deputies! A series of suggestions based on what you just said. First. As far as I can see, the strengths on the committee are six by five. So here we are, your honor's colleagues, or five to six, whatever. I mean, respectable colleagues, there's just the right composition of people who can make a balanced decision. There or there, the main thing is that the decision has to be state-owned. The other one. Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan said that the committee had decided to reject the bill, and then a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the law had to be made by the committee. When this is done, we'll put it to a vote. Now there are two suggestions, I ask you to listen to them. The first suggestion is to postpone consideration of the matter by clearly setting a date when we will consider it and oblige the committee to submit it for consideration. No, to consider it in its original form, that is, how it was accepted as a basis, and to judge the President of Ukraine. The second proposal, which also sounded here, is to look at it in its original form. So I'm going to put it to a vote according to the proposals. The committee's first proposal is to postpone the consideration of this bill to the next plenary week, with the committee's obligation to hold separate meetings on this issue and to make a decision accordingly. About the transfer for next week, please vote for the next plenary week of 27-30. [[11:48:57]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Second offer. Dear colleagues, we're on our way. Attention, please. - in a legal vacuum or a regular one. The matter was that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when it adopted the law as a basis, was obliged to prepare for a reduced procedure, that is, a coincidence. So I'm going to put a second proposal for a vote on this bill now in its original form. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't hesitate, and you listen to what I'm telling you, the committee hasn't considered it, and then we accept it, the bill. Once again, we can only accept it in the version that it was accepted as a basis. If the Supreme Council accepts it because there is no discussion, don't wave what isn't. I'm putting this motion to the vote, please be sure. [[11:50:06]] For 186 The decision is not taken. That's why, dear fellows, I ask you again, and I beg you, I beg your attention. I'm asking you, and please, let's vote on the commission of the committee, consider the matter and bring it up for consideration for the next plenary week. Please vote again. Go back to considering this proposal, or we'll burn the bill. [[11:50:57]] For 1 Please return to your proposal. Dear colleagues! We haven't really considered it, we can't rule it out. Change the vote. I'll explain again: we haven't considered the bill in fact, if you don't want to look at it -- next week, there's going to be this war again. Therefore, the committee's proposal to prepare for the second reading, to consult with the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If the committee decides to cancel the outcome of the vote on adoption as a basis and makes the appropriate draft decision, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider it. Now this project depends, Mikhail Vasilovich. So the proposal, because we didn't support any of them, to go back to the first proposal, and to make a decision otherwise would be a reason for political opposition. And then the Supreme Council, if it doesn't vote in the second reading, the bill will be rejected. Do you understand what I'm saying? Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The first time was put to the vote was the postponement of the consideration of the bill to the next week, taking into account the provision of a table to be submitted to the second meeting of the Committee. We didn't vote. At the insistence of the opposition, you put to the vote the bill in the form in which it was adopted on first reading. No votes were found in the end, i.e. they did not vote in favour of the law and did not vote or vote, i.e. the law died, it is no longer there. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! I'll tell you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Please note, let's not give up what we want for real. The point was that today the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a shorter deadline for the drafting of the bill should be considered, and at the request of the opposition. Since there were two proposals: the first is to postpone consideration and the second is to consider it today. Neither offer received the required number of votes. But this does not mean that the law is rejected, for this does not preclude the adoption of the law as a basis. A special motion for a decision should be put to the vote that calls for a vote to be lifted. So, honourable and dear colleagues, either we make this decision, or we continue to have this uncertainty. That's it! One, please, Oleg Zarubinski. Oleg Lazka, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u118	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Please see with what satisfaction the representative of the Party of Regions is saying that “the law has died”! What law, as if “dead”, are the representatives of the Party of Regions talking about? The Papieva Bill, which provides for the provision of State aid to low - living families. They are happy to talk about the bill that “died” on which they were building their electoral campaign! On this bill Janukovic won the election! Janukovic won the election and then the law “dead” and with them millions of Ukrainian citizens must die because of your logic?Oh, my God! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this law needs to be considered today in the hall and let the whole country see who is using it, who is lying to people, who care about it, where they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, Roman Zvaric. I ask you, fellow believers, to listen to wise thoughts and make wise decisions! There will be no pressure!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we really are in a situation, just a circus. The bill was introduced by Papias when he was in opposition. In accordance with this bill, Presidential candidate Viktor Janukovic promised that the law would be passed. Today there is a day of opposition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the insistence of opposition, this bill has been incorporated into the order of today. And it is the Party of the Regions that speaks against its President so that this bill is not supported. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to remind you of the direct rule of the Rules that today's agenda is shaped by opposition. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this law was to be prepared for the second reading under a reduced procedure. As early as February, we still need to consider this bill in essence today and now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u121	Not from the faction, but from the committee, please, Alexander Stoyan, you were responsible for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u122	Dear fellow countrymen, I'd like to tell you who blew the bill. He canceled the Bill of the Yulia Timoshenko. They didn't want to accept the bill. Remember, remember when I called on behalf of the committee and said, "Give us a day today so that the committee will take all the notes into account and look at the second reading." We asked you to give us a week. And if you supported us, and we all voted to move it for a week, we'd take all your suggestions into account, and in a week we'd be back to reviewing this law, and this law would work. You knocked it off, and then you insisted that you do it now, and you didn't vote for it. So the responsibility lies with you. In accordance with the Rules, this law has been repealed. [[B in m in s a l in]] With regard to Janukovic's promise. What Janukovic promised to raise social standards was voted on and will be implemented. Shame on you for breaking the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear, well, so that you're a member of the committee, he's a reporter on the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u124	I'm showing you the documents that are given to Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it easy, too, first! Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs, we will not be able to find a solution in the process of such opposition. The suggestion was that I consulted with lawyers. We're in a traveling situation. Since the law, the draft law was adopted as a basis, and is mandated to consider it as a reduced procedure, i.e. to prepare for the second reading, this decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not implemented, I put two proposals to the vote. The first is to postpone the consideration by instructing the committee to hold meetings on this subject and to make the appropriate decision. If we don't, we're going to look at it in its original form, the way we took it as a base. Second sentence, if you don't go first. The second suggestion was to consider it now, to consider it now, and to put it to a vote on the adoption of it as a whole as a law in the form in which we took it as a basis. But in the first case there was no support, and in the second case there was no support. Yes, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already adopted one law without preparing it for second reading. But we put it to a vote, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported that approach, and then we made a decision. The truth was dedicated by the President of Ukraine. But we didn't solve the problem. The bill remained. If the committee were to make a draft decision to cancel the adoption as a basis, then we would have had reason to put this motion to the vote. There is no project and I have no right to vote on this proposal. You understand that. So I propose that, honourable colleagues, to finish the debate on this subject, go back to considering these two proposals, and I ask you to vote for us to prepare him for the second reading. If the committee decides at its meeting that it is necessary to cancel it, let us make this proposal and then we will vote on it. And so we're going to have fruitless discussions here. So I'm voting for a return to the question of transferring the law to the next plenary week with the commission of the committee to prepare it for consideration. Please vote. [[12:00:20]] For-23 I am voting on the second proposal to return to the consideration of this bill without preparing it for second reading by the relevant committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:47]] For 190 We didn't support the decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 141, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 49, Communists and “Litvina Block” – zero, “Afterfractional” – 0. Please head the regulatory committee, Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you on several occasions that if we are in a deadlock on this issue, we are guided by the legislation we are enacting. I will allow myself to recall article 123 of the Rules, which states that, as a result of the second reading of the bill, the Supreme Council takes decisions on the adoption of the law; the rejection of the law; the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general; the adoption of the law in the second reading, with the exception of separate chapters; and the return of the bill. The draft is considered to be rejected if none of the proposals in paragraphs 1, 3 to 5 of the draft first article do not support the decision. Therefore, under this article, none of the paragraphs that were put to the vote was supported by the Supreme Council, and the law was deemed to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down, dear colleagues. I beg you, give me a chance to say. Dear colleagues, Honourable Alexandre Sergiyyovich, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not consider essentially the second reading of the bill, so your references to these standards are absolutely groundless. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered and voted in favour of adoption in the second reading and, as a whole, did not adopt the law, the bill would have been rejected. We've been discussing the matter of procedure. And the procedure involved moving the matter or considering it today without preparing the committee for second reading. Therefore, I would ask that, my fellow Members, not to treat the Rules the way anyone thinks it is necessary. And I'd like to ask you, let's get to the bottom of this, or we'll get into a conflict again after the break. One minute from the factions, please. I ask you to finish now, because there will be a conflict. Alla Alexandrovska, right? Please. One faction at a time. It'll be a turn. Everybody, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u127	Respectable! Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I'm not actually speaking for the hall, not for my colleagues. I would like the citizens of Ukraine to understand what is going on here. The Act was not considered in the Supreme Council Hall on second reading because it was not prepared for consideration as required by the Rules. There was no consideration of the Committee. I want people to know that most of the committees are representatives of the orange factions that are here today so fiercely. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to you now. Don't put a shadow on your knitting. Gather around the committee. You have a majority. Make your decision. Put the table in the hall and we'll discuss it. So stop deceiving the people of Ukraine. Vladimir Mihajlovich, the law is on the committee, he's not dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u128	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, the passions in the room naturally deteriorated in a state of emotional excitement that neither the opposition can make nor the second decision. That's why I have a specific proposal. Move on in the order of the day. Give it a week to cool off the big heads. A week later, on the Conciliation Council, it was calm, on a fresh head, without emotion to consider the procedure for further adoption of the bill. Until then, the Committee will prepare a table for the second reading. It's just a normal way out. And we will not stop the consideration of bills that are important on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u130	Please, Oleg Lazko. Who Will Speak From? Oleg Lazko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u131	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Once again, I would like to draw the attention of millions of Ukrainian citizens who look forward to this law. What a year this law was run in front of our noses like carrots in front of an ass and scolding our citizens. The factions of the vast majority who today form a coalition, the main of which is the Party of Regions, do not vote and those who have told before the elections how they care about social protection of people today refuse to vote for a law that greatly improves this social protection. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I appeal to you, to your faction, to a faction of Communists who have always been consistent and always declared to protect the interests of workers, let us adopt this law today, let us give people the opportunity to receive decent social assistance, to those who are neglected by states who cannot feed their families who are unemployed. It's up to you and me today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. They're the only ones who got unemployed today, aren't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u133	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wish there were no double standards in our room. As we considered the Electoral Law, you remember, two days before the presidential election, just a table was not signed by anyone and voted because it was satisfying for everyone. I can see how damaging it is today to occupy two chairs and the heads of the Regulatory Committee and the heads of the faction of the Party of Regions. It's extremely harmful. [[Applause]] Because it affects the objectivity, Mr. Ephraim, of your objectivity and impartiality. And today you don't even want to support the bill of your diocese Papiev, which was sent by the Governor to Cherniewec region, so that he probably couldn't ask him whether he could ask questions about state social assistance for low-income families. But this tablet is, now it's in the hands of the deputies. I'm asking you to vote for it, it's small, the law's small, let's unlock this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, relative to the table. Once again, I want to say that this tablet has not been reviewed by the committee or seen by the Chief Legal Authority. And you understand very well that this is simply a document, an initiative of individual national MPs or a group of national MPs. It was not by chance that I, my esteemed colleagues, made two suggestions by amassing your visions and your wishes. First. To have the committee hold a meeting, listen, hold a committee meeting, and for the next plenary week, pass this bill from the 27th to the 30th. [[It's equivalent to having people go to work who get paid for it.]] Let's figure out the 28th date, it's just the day of the opposition. We have a second proposal, if we don't take the first one, the second proposal is to look at it now without any plates and vote it out in the paper where it was accepted as a basis. But since the first and second cases require the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so I've proposed to do so, otherwise we'll have a constant confrontation on this issue. That's why I'm going to put the vote again. Attention, please. – return to consideration of these two proposals. Please vote. Oh, no? Let us conclude our consideration of the matter. I'll put it to a vote. We didn't support it-- to consider the law. [[12:09:28]] For the A break is announced – no decision taken – up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u135	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Please make an announcement. Now we're going to put the question to the vote, and then you're going to say again that we didn't then. Well, I'll put it to a vote, but who should I vote for, what about the law? What will they consider? We have to vote. What are they looking at? Dear colleagues, we have not finished definitively, i.e. we have not decided on a bill to amend articles 5 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Small-Supplied Families. [[on State aid at the minimum of subsistence]] Second reading. Once again, I would like to highlight the suggestions that have been made. The first suggestion was that we should consider this bill. But since we have fallen into such a legal trap, or pause, on the one hand, the committee has not prepared for consideration in the second reading, on the other hand, is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to shorten the procedure for preparing for consideration of this law in the second reading. So I put two proposals to the vote: the first was to postpone the consideration of this bill and commit the committee to prepare for the next plenary week; the second was to consider this bill now, but to vote it, because the amendment committee did not consider and prepare for the second reading, in the same way that it was accepted as a basis. So please think more -- and I'll put it to a vote to cover this topic, otherwise it's going to be a draw. And the third proposal I have already made by Anatoly Grizzenko is to entrust the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in the committee meeting to see who really wants to consider this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? And today, we're going to consider this and we're going to bring it up tomorrow. So three of these proposals I'm going to put to the vote right now, please express your point of view on this point. Please, Anatoly Grizzenko, then Oleg Lazko, then Alexander Stoyan, one by one, not all of your respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is aware that for some reason the committee has failed to implement the Supreme Council’s decision. On the other hand, we need to find solutions, and respecting both the Supreme Council and the Committee, and not making short-term decisions. I propose, today, that we assign Mr. Tomenka, Vice-President of the Supreme Council, to take a personal part in the committee's work so that the committee can take a decision and put the matter to a vote tomorrow, and make a decision that we can make. Then answer the questions and the people who are in the category of underprivileged, and the law will be adopted accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u137	Yes, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u138	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The Yulia Timoshenko faction supports the proposal, to hold a committee meeting today, with the participation of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Mikli Tomenka, and to consider this bill in the first question tomorrow for adoption in the second reading and in general. Why are we talking about tomorrow? Because we're going to require the government to take the parameters of this law into account in the 2010 budget. We think that this law should still work this year, at least from the second half to raise social standards of life, and this is a question where power and opposition can work together when it comes to people's interests, about raising standards of their lives. We hope that the pro-power coalition will demonstrate its desire to keep the pre-election promises by voting for the social. the law of social orientation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u139	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan. One at a time, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to say that the committee has carried out your task of expediting preparations for second reading. By the middle of February, there was a comparative table. But thanks to the majority, and this is BUT and our Ukraine, three times they've canceled the committee meetings, and now they're saying, “Come on now!” Three times, we couldn't look at this table. And to this day, we have not considered the chart on their account. If we could just take a look. They would be in session, we would consider, and today there would be no problems. That is why we also want to adopt this law. But I want to inform you that today the committee meeting will not take place because the head of the committee at the hospital, our colleagues Papiew and Dry. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Our colleagues Papiew and Dry are in second place, waiting for a replacement, so there will be no quorum. I'm asking Tomenka, don't waste your time. When the committee is formed, we will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. Who else is there from the factions that didn't act? Oleg Lazko. We've already made our appearance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down! What are we talking about? We're talking about procedure. What are we talking about? Are we basically talking about the law? They have not yet spoken from “Our Ukraine”. Please, Paul Zebrowsky. Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky. Calm down! Don't get hot! And then we'll continue to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, well, that's exactly what I've been talking about. So now it's clearly predominant that there's a process, not a result. There is nothing surprising about this, for we are witnessing how the seat is defined by the point of view. For this bill, those who did not vote just a few months ago and argued that they could not vote for it, demanded that it be considered and so on. Well, obviously they're right. But not from a legislative point of view, but from a political point of view. And so, I think that neither the second nor the third sentence can be implemented, we see it now. And the optimal option is, indeed, that the committee should deal with this bill, have an official conclusion and bring it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then we could say that we want the result, not the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u143	You're 11 people on the committee. How will you all act? Work on the committee. Jerbrowsky, and we will vote
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, well, actually, I'm talking to Mr. Alexander about being the chairman of the committee. It has been out of work for five months now, and there is no need to focus on the fact that the committee is not happening because of “Our Ukraine” and “BUBU”. Talk to your colleague, start going to work, and start considering drafts. But in fact, respectable colleagues, the point of sitting really determines the point of thinking. I think we need to gather a committee today, and I think it's important that we sort it out. There should be conclusions from the Ministry of Finance. And the authorities need to learn to take responsibility for themselves. We cannot operate with populism, nor can we, nor can we, nor can we, speak honestly with Ukraine. And so just to lick when you're in opposition and you're tilting at socially unprotected levels of the population, it's not a position and it's not good enough to do that. I would still like the committee to come together and consider this. And I think that Nicholas Tomenko is happy to come and try to hold this committee meeting, and we'll see who does and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I'll put it to a vote. I'd like your attention. First. I'll have the committee meet you tonight. There is no head, there is a deputy head of the committee. To have a committee meeting today, but that committee should be sitting today, whether it is the committee’s head or not. Offer to the deputy head. Please. To invite the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in the committee meeting. Consider the suggestions made for the second reading and bring it up tomorrow. What's more, tomorrow's the big deal that we're looking at bills in our second reading. [[1st, 10th]] After considering the program, let's consider if the Supreme Council supports it. Just don't have to make any more offers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u146	There's no motive. We were just talking about motives. Read the Rules for once. Once again, dear colleagues, I want you. Calm down. That's the first offer. A second offer that has already been made. This will delay the discussion for a week of this question, for the next plenary week to be considered after further processing. These are the proposals I'm talking about. The third offer. If none is supported, I will put to the vote this bill on the adoption of it as a law, because all the terms have coincided, the committee ignores the decisions of the Supreme Council, and then everyone will have political motives to make the assessments, agreed? All of it. The first suggestion to entrust the committee to meet today is to consider the amendments and suggestions that have come to this law. And invite the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Nicholas Tomenka, to participate in the committee meeting. Please vote. Vote, please. [[12:54:10]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 138, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 41, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 1, non-fractional – 1. The second suggestion is to postpone the consideration of this issue to the next plenary week, once again with the commission of the committee to deal with the relevant proposals and, again, with the proposal of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Mikola Tomenku to participate in the committee meeting in the consideration of this issue. Please vote. [[12:55:03]] For-47 The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 0, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 1, Communists - 26, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional -1. There's a third offer left, please. I am betting on voting, on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of articles 5 and 8 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Small-Supplied Families. [[correcting the term that this law takes effect from the time it was published]] Registration number 1416. Please identify yourself. [[12:56:02]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 142, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 44, communists – 16, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, non-factional – 1. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question, the chapter on inclusion in the agenda of the session. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, we need to include these issues in the agenda so that the relevant committees can deal with them for consideration. I'd like to support you. It's just about putting questions into the agenda. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On first measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine" is therefore put to the vote. [[on the formation of anti-crisis national food and public medical baskets]] [[Registration number 6164]] Please vote. [[12:57:37]] For 203 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? Oleg Lazko for the reasons for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u147	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I want to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to a bill that has just been passed by a coalition that has not supported its consideration. The drafters propose the establishment of an anti-crisis state food and public health basket. In particular, so that low-income citizens of Ukraine have the opportunity to purchase, at government-regulated prices, the necessary list of medicines installed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and foodstuffs. We take the floor on this bill from the presidential election program of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. So we took everything Janukovic promised, because they were busy dividing power, and we, our deputies, put it in the form of a bill. And today, the Party of Regions does not vote in favour of a bill aimed at the implementation of President Yanukovic's pre-election programme. These are the millions of citizens who voted, so know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u148	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We are certainly grateful to the opposition that they are helping us, but with the help of Julia Timoshenko, that she is not in the presidents or in the Prime Ministers or in the deputies or in the conflict, God, such help that you help us. God forbid, yes. Next, second. All real steps will be taken to fulfil the social commitments made by the President and set out in his programme, but they will be taken into account in the budget to be adopted by 1 May, no vote will be made. And the other. We thought, of course, that we would come to the mountain of money, as Julia Timoshenko had promised, saying that the country was on the rise, the execution was full, and we were in a financial pit: the depths were not yet visible in the binoculars, and at the bottom of the pit were only the debt notes and bills to be paid. Therefore, the real budget will be adopted, the reduction of gas prices will be taken into account, the resuscitation of industry will make money real in the budget and we will raise social standards, as promised, in real terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're one thing at a time, I ask you to identify who the faction should be. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? There is now a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. [[on State aid for raising a three - year - old child]] [[Registration number 6165]] About getting into the daytime. I'm voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u151	They're boycotting. Dear colleagues! It's only about getting into the agenda. [[13:00:48]] For 197 The decision is not taken. With the motives of Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u152	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. As the drafter of the bill, I want to prove, as one of the drafters of the bill, that I want to bring to the well-known citizens of Ukraine the content of this law, which is not voted by a well-established coalition again. It's about predicting state aid for children before they reach the age of 18. Today the state only helps children until they reach the age of three. Then, after that, the kids stay at home, and when the family doesn't work, when the parents don't have any income, then the kid begs, sits at the intersection and the 3-year-olds, and the 5-year-olds ask for charity. So to solve this problem, we've suggested that we set up this state aid until we reach the age of 18 and, secondly, raise it substantially. Today, this aid is 130 dollars a month, and we suggest that it be set to 500 dollars a month. And the dominant coalition, except for the faction of Communists, has to thank, not vote for these social attitudes. Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u153	Thank you. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u154	Don't vote! Again, this is a position to take from the presidential election program a candidate for President Yanukovic. I mean, they don't support President Yanukovic's program and policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u155	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I think it's not just me, but all the people in our country are already overwhelmed by the demagogies that come out of this room every two minutes. I'd like to remind myself that you, distinguished colleagues, had two years to fulfill what you're trying to do today, but then you didn't want to decide. I would like to recall, however, that we voted in favour of the law to increase minimum social standards and its decision will be included in the implementation of the State budget programme. This requires additional funding for minimum payments of more than 6 billion and pension payments of more than 22 billion. You were all over the country saying you had money like that, and we found it and put it in the budget. With regard to the remaining issues that Victor Fedorović Janukovic had with which he had gone to the elections, they would certainly be implemented. But as we parallelly start the economy of our State now, and through the economy, not external borrowing, as you have done, we will resolve issues on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u157	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u158	Addressing the issues of social benefits that the end needs to be addressed and will be addressed. We're not doing populism. If we decide something, we'll do it. And the way you push the country is utterly and unacceptably destructive to any State.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on State aid to families with children. [[on payment at birth of a child]] [[Registration number 6167]] [[13:04:42]] For-200 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons, who? Well, let's get Pavlovsky on the stand. Well, that's it. No, it's not. Well, Pavlovsky raises his hand too, well, Pavlovsky. Now. Then let him speak. Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, and our esteemed fellow citizens, a little mystery to you. Listen to whose words: “I guarantee the support of the Ukrainian family. Since 2011, at the birth of the first child, the Ukrainian family will receive 25,000 dollars, the second 50,000 dollars, the third, each 100,000 dollars.” And these words were put into this bill, which has now been rejected by the cynical Party of Regions. So I want to ask them, who said those words? And who won the election on those promises? Should we stick to it? Should we be honest in front of our constituents? I mean, I guess you all realized what Victor Janukovic said.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u161	Gennady Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u162	And disgracefully, the Party of the Regions does not want to uphold the laws for the execution of its program. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u163	Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Can I have your attention, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I would suggest that we stop mixing people and engage in demagogy. Why? Two days ago, the United Nations announced the situation in Ukraine, which is the following. The people of Ukraine began to live 10 per cent worse than in 2009. 87 per cent of the population of Ukraine live below the poverty line. It's the work of the past government. The Government has now prepared a draft budget to be proposed with you shortly. The Budget Committee, where professionals from all factions are located, will take a professional look if possible today. We'll be the first to vote for this. Yanukovic made his program for five years. And what my colleague has just announced is about to begin in 2011. Let's live to 2011 and see. And I want to tell you this. You can't take your shirt off. So look at the professionals, dig in, and then let's mix the people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the transition to military service under contract]] Registration number 6185. About getting into the daytime. [[13:07:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of July Timoshenko" – 135, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 34, communists – 20, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 1. With the motives of Anatoly Gritsenko, please, and then Oleg Lazko, and then please raise your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I voted against the inclusion of this document in the agenda. Let's tell the truth. What has been written in today's President's electoral programme, and I quote, "The Contact Army since 2011". It was an early lie, and it couldn't have been. But it's too bad. Those who now voted in favour of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, made the same absolutely unfulfilled promise to make a contractual army of January 1, 2008. So let the authorities be responsible for morals, and let the opposition also. There can be no transfer to the contract from January 1st of the following year. We're going to destroy the army at all, so let's not play with such drafts. Moreover, there is no procedural conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and accordingly our committee does not even have the right under the Rules of Procedure Act to consider it. So the question of the agenda was completely unfounded. That's why I voted against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I remind you that this is not about the consideration of the issue, but about the inclusion in the agenda, because it's not about the Scientific and Experimental Authority, it's not about the committee that's not about the drafts that are not included in the agenda. We just have to make this decision. People's MP Petruk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I am the drafter of this bill, and I must say that if this issue hadn't been politicized, if it had been in the process of development, we would have forgotten that we already have members of the professional service. I have an urgent example that we have in our Ukraine. The state’s foreign service had entered the contract service three years ago, and they no longer had any military personnel serving in the State’s Foreign Service. If the President wants him to have an army and he's a real Supreme Commander, he needs to recognize the head of the State Border Service and let him tell him how to do it. 40,000 military personnel have to be called into the army for contractual service, 38 already are. I'm not saying that there's a need to modernize the army, that there's a need for new technology. Yeah, it takes decades. And for the contractual army, 40,000 contract personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u169	I already called the name of Konovaluka, I'm sorry. Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u170	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In general, you know, when we turn the most serious and responsible questions into a farce, it becomes very unpleasant in terms of understanding the prospect of accountability for us as people's deputies. I think that a compromise solution could be found today on all these issues. This would certainly require tripartite consultations, consultations, harmonization. I am convinced that we could abolish this shameful rule, which we place in the budget each year, on the threshold of ensuring a subsistence minimum. If not this year, next year. If the next year is necessary for economic growth, then up to 12 years, well, society would really understand its prospects. If we're really talking about combating poverty. And, you know, the apopheus of all this performance is, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that you vote for all these social projects, and your bloc named after it doesn't vote at all! Then please answer that your position is as fundamental as policy as the Head of the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u171	I'll give you an answer. That I am the Head of the Supreme Council, not the leader of the faction, first. And secondly, I think that if a bill is introduced, the Supreme Council should consider it and make a decision. So please don't tell me how to work. I know that. And you do your job. That's it. Dear National Deputies! Bills that aren't included in the agenda, you know, according to the regulations, they're considered rejected. In the next session, we'll go back to them. But I think Valery Konovaluk is right in the sense that we can't jump in, as demonstrated today. We didn't pass those laws yesterday, the other side proposed social laws. Today, the opposite side offers. And you essentially destroyed the country by working together. Let's think about whether we put our political plans first or our country first. I think the country, I'm sure, and people. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Questions that have been identified have been considered. I have already announced that the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been closed. I've been working on committees for 15 hours. Tomorrow we will continue our meeting, according to the schedule on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-14-m0.u172	That's how we'll look at it tomorrow. She's not in the mood right now, you know? We won't take it now, we won't vote. We agreed on it tomorrow after the budget was presented, and I've already offered to set it up. At 15 o'clock, work on the committees. Tomorrow we will resume the plenary session at 10 a.m.
