ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:33]] There were 424 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Kuzmenko Peter Pavlovich and Samuellenka Yuri Pavlovich. Please welcome the people's deputies, our colleagues, and wish them good health and success in social and political life. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from October 5 to 8, 2010. Five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place, and 53 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws and 8 regulations were passed, 7 bills were passed on the basis, 21 bills and eight draft regulations were rejected, 65 parliamentary requests were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. According to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Yulia Timoshenko of 18 October 2010 and in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I report the exclusion of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich and Osika Sergey Grigorovich from the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. On the basis of part four of article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you that the national deputies of Ukraine, Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich and Osika Sergey Grigorovich, are non-fractional. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals and announcements of applications, reports, queries. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? The National Deputy Nadosha, a faction of the Party of the Regions, will be followed by Andrew Kozemiakin. Dear colleagues! From the faction of the Party of Regions, who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u3	Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dearly-respected are those who are present. From 14 to 16 October this year, the 84th session of the Venice Commission was held in Italy, the entire Commission adopted three conclusions on Ukraine and heard information on the Constitutional Court's decision of 30 September this year, in particular in its opinion on the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the fourth in recent years. This was the conclusion of 2001, 2007 and March 2010. For 9 years, all these findings were dead, no one had implemented them, with the reasons being that either the Supreme Council's rostrum had been blocked or had been introduced, then the bill on the administration and status of judges had been revoked, or the Supreme Court of Ukraine had requested that judicial reform be postponed and so on. It was only after the election of Viktor Federovic Yanuković as President of Ukraine that the judicial reform had begun, that the necessary laws and laws had been passed. The Presidential Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges took into account more than 100 amendments and recommendations of the Venice Commission. In the meantime, the media report on the conclusion of the commission is most controversial. Since I have directly participated and delivered a report on this issue, I would like to inform and inform the citizens of Ukraine, which the Venice Commission has actually adopted. First, the Commission welcomed the intention of the Ukrainian authorities to continue their work on improving judicial legislation. Approval was given to the introduction of an automated system for the processing and distribution of cases in the courts: The transfer of the State judicial administration to the jurisdiction of the judiciary; The establishment of judicial authority over the training of judges in Ukraine; the liquidation of military vessels. In its recommendations, the Venice Commission also made a number of proposals to improve the legal regulation of the judiciary. Initially, the draft contained 33 main comments on the text of the law. Following consideration of my amendments to draft opinion 5, paragraphs of the comments to Ukraine were withdrawn, although the Chairman said that this was not usually the case. However, the Ukrainian delegation was able to convince experts and members of the Venice Commission, and those five paragraphs were withdrawn. Among the main comments of the commission to the law: the recommendation to clarify the grounds for disciplinary responsibility of judges; dismissal for breach of oath; deprivation of immunity for judges; review of the inclusion in the higher qualification. the commission of the representative of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine; to prohibit any form of remuneration of judges; to clarify the procedure for the dismissal of judges by stipulating that there shall be no re-voting of a constitutional majority in the Supreme Council in two thirds for the dismissal of a judge. The Commission also recommended that the competence of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Council of Justice be reviewed. It was suggested that the Constitution should be amended to completely exclude the role of the Supreme Council in the procedure for the election and dismissal of judges. Finally, the Commission considered the request of the PACE Monitoring Committee to prepare an opinion on the constitutional situation in Ukraine and on the known decision of the Constitutional Court. As the rapporteur pointed out, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 30 September was final, in accordance with the law and the commission would not question it. It was noted, however, that the legal certainty problems, the legitimacy of State institutions in relation to the decision of the Constitutional Court required detailed examination. The Commission decided to appoint an expert and prepare its recommendations, with a view to establishing a working group to visit Ukraine in November.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u6	The draft opinion will be submitted to the next session in mid-December of this year. Although the decision of the Venice Commission is a recommendation, I think we need to amend the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u7	Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Last sessional week was marked by the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by the hands of the vast majority, legitimized the constitutional coup d’état in the country. In doing so, he took another step toward usurping power, one man or a small group of people close to the President. In grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, both in 2004 and 1996, laws were adopted: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council, and changes to the Constitution, with the arbitrary extension of parliamentary powers, which contradicted all democratic norms and common sense. People have lost their ability to participate in the administration of the country because of the highest representative body of the state. Now our perspective is a totalitarian regime. As citizens take care of people, they are well - aware of the cost of community services and of buying the most essential food they need. And at this time, the President of Ukraine, the head of the government, especially the majority in parliament, is trying to make a good mine against the backdrop of the total poverty of the people, the galloping rise in prices for products, the decline in the economy and the systemic oppression of small and medium-sized businesses. That's why our faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko has made a decision and has been collecting 150 signatures since yesterday to consider the issue of the mistrust of the government of Azarov. And this is not a pear action, as some of the majority have already commented, and this is our adequate response to events in the country. People realized that power in Ukraine lives in its own special part of the world’s reality and its people. Various calibres of authority, speakers, dictionaries led by a guarantor as a spell repeat: “There is no basis for price increases. Inflation is projected. By the end of the year, the situation in the country is normal.” But from your self-hypnosis, gentlemen, Ukrainian living standards are only falling rapidly. There is a serious risk that the “new” country, which is supposed to be today's authorities, will be out of population. Only those who need the owners of Ukraine to provide their primary needs will survive. Even now, people will begin to feel the devastation of their wallets. The price of meat in Ukraine has reached its highest level in 10 years. Even the beloved prime minister of cabbage traveled nearly 50 percent for September. It seems that Mr. Azarov’s pink dream, when there is one cabbage in the Ukrainian diet, will come true. And this is because the government of Azar is trying to keep prices from being held up. And what will follow them? Today's situation is not caused by objective factors, not by the impact of global economic processes on Ukraine, but is the result of how a team of “professionals” builds a better life today and shows its true face. [[in quotes]] It's a gas question. As early as July, the president and the government promised cheap gas for the population, and as early as August 1, the price rose by 50 percent. In the opinion of experts, the higher cost of housing services planned by the government for October will lead to an even more powerful rise in inflation. Today, authorities are not worried about the sharp deterioration of the state’s general economic situation. The main thing for them is the full concentration of power in their hands at all levels and the enormous desire to deprive or destroy any right of opposition. And the authorities consistently put this idea into practice. That is why the Law on Elections to Local Self-Government Authorities was passed, which prohibits participation in the elections of political blocs and, above all, the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. That is why the new Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was quickly adopted, which, by opposition, did not establish any rights, but those laws that proposed opposition to the protection of citizens during the period. It is not even included in the order of the day. Any proposals by the opposition political forces of Parliament to the laws that determine the country's life are ignored. The fight against the opposition has long gone beyond the Supreme Council. Hard censorship has been introduced in the media, and the authorities are trying to shut down those canals that have the ability to display life objectively in the country. So any statement by Mr. Yanukovic abroad that the opposition. The opposition will be granted rights and they will be legally secured – cynical lies and attempts to look democratic in front of the Western world. In fact, the authorities are cynically afraid of opposition. Because we, gentlemen, are the only effective instrument to prevent any political or oligarchic clan from turning Ukraine into a totalitarian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u9	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk Vladimir Stretovic will be next. What about Mikola Martinenko? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Our political power, the People's Party, like the other parties, is now taking an active part in the elections to the local councils. And today, at the request of the working national MPs of different factions from district to district, as well as our candidates to the MPs and on the basis of citizens' appeals, I want to focus on the most painful issues from the regions. First of all, the wish and demand for the Supreme Council, for the Cabinet of Ministers to begin a concrete work immediately on expanding the powers and basic capabilities of local councils. In particular, because of the changes in the Tax Code that we are currently working on, where we are expanding the list of taxes and payments that would, in whole or in part, remain at the disposal of local councils, and through the state budget, so that the local councils will be able to solve the pressing problems of urban communities and villages, namely, the construction, repair of roads that are often in terrible condition, but that Kiev is not seen in the construction and repair of schools, hospitals, their material security. We're sure that if the regions themselves were able to buy everything they needed for hospitals, schools and other social institutions, it would be cheaper to go to those areas than it is now. There are district hospitals in Volina, for example, Lokachinska, where the 50-year-old X-ray machine hasn't been working for several years, and people can't go through a basic health check. Or like in the village of Luków in the Turkish region, where for many years not a penny has been allocated for repairs to schools, houses of culture, hospitals. And there are thousands of such examples in various regions of Ukraine. The faction also draws the attention of the government to the numerous calls of citizens not to increase pension reform for mothers and grandmothers. The main thing here is the differentiation in the size of pensions according to the contribution that a person made to the economy of the state, that is to say, to the work experience. That contribution to the Pension Fund. We also need to address the issue of the employment of single farmers. They are being consumed by Ukraine. And you can extend the rules of retirement, as is the case in small businesses, to so-called simplifications. Ukrainian citizens also pass on the requirement. And on behalf of the faction, we call on the government to work out clearly the system of work of real estate registration centers called BTI. People complain that they've been in line for months. The organs are state-owned. And the money to be paid for the confirmation of property for an apartment or a house in a village is insurmountable for pensioners and low - wage people. This is the case with the privatization of the land parcels, the land ponds. Thousands of private firms, as they stick to government agencies, suck money out of citizens. In Ukraine it's not millions, it's billions past the citizens' pockets. And for the rest. All levels of the People's Party, as well as our faction, go to the government, take into account when working on the new village development program our proposals. Most importantly, make the credit system available to peasants, increase support for the animal industry, and, most importantly, the cattle. And there must be a red thread to address the social development of the village. Ukrainians cannot be divided into peasants and townspeople who have clearly different standards of living in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u11	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Mikola Martinenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Vladimir Matthew will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the new political reality that arose after the abolition of the political upheaval, left two important issues unresolved. First. The date of the election of the Supreme Council. According to the new old Constitution, they are to take place the following year. And the second. A model of the electoral system that will be used to elect deputies to a higher legislative body. The sooner the definition of the term of office of the Supreme Council, the better. There will be less political turmoil, and Parliament will be able to devote more time to legislative work. Because already in November, the start of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be announced -- it comes directly out of its term of office, which has been reduced to four years. It's obvious that we're going to push away from synchronizing the election of the President and the Parliament. Such an idea is logical, regardless of who is in power. This will allow for a period of time within a few years to be fulfilled by the authority of their promises, and then the voters will give their assessment. And politicians will no longer be allowed to cast into parliamentary elections as the cause of their failures in public office. Obviously, only one date is possible in sync with the election of the President and the Supreme Council: 2015. After all, it is unlikely that the head of state will decide to shorten his presidential term. Last week, Parliament started amending the Constitution to extend its powers until 2012. Then they grabbed hold of their heads, and it turned out that the already voted draft changes were contrary to the Constitution. Now there are two options for future events: the first is to re-vote these changes to the Constitution. But for the elections to be synchronized in 2015, it is necessary to write in the Final Positions that the newly elected Parliament is only 3 out of 4 years away. Are those in favor of such a scenario willing to do so? Option two. Conduct elections in accordance with the current Constitution in March 2011. Then the next composition of the Supreme Council will be completed. Personally, this seems to me to be the most motivated, but the legislative initiatives on this issue are from the deputies of our faction. Now, let's talk about the election system model. It's important to find a balance between social expectations and political reality. In particular, the majority woman promises people much more chances of solving local problems than just a proportional system. But a clean majorityess likes the role of the party as the main expression of social sentiment. This is contrary to European trends in the leading role of the party. Yet, none of the election models in themselves are bad or good, either responding or meeting the requirements of time. Today, after returning to the Constitution in 1996, the most balanced system in terms of the social and political development of Ukraine seems to be mixed. In this way, we will avoid extremes, both in the form of purchasing districts and in the dictatorship of party leaders. The majority component always leaves the chance for fresh blood to flow into politics, and party lists allow for a clear definition of the responsibility of the political forces for the state’s development. The most discussed is the proportionally mixed system. Obviously the most realistic is the 50 by 50 option or close to it. In summary, first of all, we need to define as soon as possible the term of office of today's Supreme Council and its next composition. Second, don't delay setting up the election model. I propose to create a special parliamentary commission with the participation of all factions as soon as possible of the development of the new Law on the Election of People's Deputies. If we are to meet in principle about a mixed system, we need to discuss very thoroughly the model of its major component, because there are many options. Work on the new electoral system should be synchronized with the continuation of constitutional reform, then we will avoid contradictions and agree to develop constitutional and electoral legislation. We need to take a closer look at the long-standing Ukrainian issue of authority and their terms and focus on work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u13	Thank you, too. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, a faction of Communists Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people of Ukraine! Today, from the presentations that were made here from the rostrum, you can see who is concerned about the categories of concern, the life problems. I wish to raise another problem that is not related to political reform that is not related to the reform of the judicial system. I want to raise the question of the disintegration of society and how this is happening. 10 companies in Central and Eastern Europe, with the largest profits in 2009, included the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, nearly 7 billion euros; the Metinvest Group, 4.4 billion euros; the Ukrzaliznica, 4.1 billion euros. [[5th place]] [[9th place]] [[10th place]] Among the 500 leading companies in the region, the results of 2009 were 39 Ukrainian companies. As one economist noted, the crisis does not stem from the Ukrainian business as a whole, but from the Ukrainian economy as a whole, but from its oligarchic and state components. That is, where the maximum concentration of capital has been reached, it is easier to get out of the crisis. At the same time, public debt increased from $41 billion to $45.9 billion by September. What is the reason why the concentration of capital and the increasing disintegration of society are taking place? And by impoverishing another, much larger, part of society that continues despite all the perceptions of the rulers. First of all, it is by increasing the cost of living in Ukraine. Over the past 20 years, the cost of living has increased nominally 15-20 times, while the wages of material workers have increased by 10-12 times. In some areas of life, its value has increased to an extent that does not have a reasonable definition, such as health, education and cultural development. This has become an area far from accessible to all Ukrainians who cannot take advantage of it, even if it is very good and in a new capacity, of the same health. Today, when prices rise, it is about survival of the population and basic foods, such as bread, bread and bread, milk, dairy products, some meat products, as well as children's foods. The situation is threatening to get out of hand, which is why we advocate the need for the most severe State control over pricing. What does the Communists offer? It is necessary to limit trade premiums, for example, for wholesalers – not more than 10 per cent, for retail trade – 15 per cent, for primary producers – grain, milk, vegetables – to 40 per cent and for processors – to no more than 15 per cent of the producer's holiday price. Our proposals are partially taken into account in the new draft government regulation on increasing the range of food to which public price regulation will apply. But that's not enough. The speculative distortion must be eliminated when the trader takes the lion's share of the profits. The share of paid labour in the cost of products should be 30, 40 per cent, or 50 per cent, as in the developed countries of the world, rather than today, some pitiful 7-8 per cent. Today, many are also concerned about the upcoming housing and community reform. People fear they are. She'll make them miserable. Liberal reformers convince people that the root of housing and utility problems is the low cost of services. Alternatively, it is proposed that prices of water, heat and everything else should be raised to the world level and that public services should be paid 100 per cent, as required by the International Monetary Fund. This is in a country that is one of the poorest countries in Europe; in a country where 78 per cent of the population is estimated to be poor; this is in a country that is recognized today: the poorer Ukrainian is only Moldovan. The first is to review the mechanism for calculating housing and utility tariffs, which will automatically reduce electricity prices for the population and for housing and utilities, which will automatically reduce water and drainage and water. Second. There is a need to ensure a clear link between public public payments and the quality of the provision of services to the population, the management of the funds channelled to the JCC, and the activities of these enterprises need to be managed jointly by the public under the supervision of finance, the acquisition of materials, and the quality of the work being done. Third. It is necessary to allocate gas of Ukrainian origin to housing and utility enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u16	Social status, and its price is determined by form: cost plus transportation. This is only part of the measures, but even their implementation, together with a well-thought-out mechanism for providing subsidies and benefits to the poor — pensioners, veterans, disabled persons, the unemployed — will greatly mitigate the harshest social impact. And also, communists often object to us exploiting nostalgia in the USSR. But that's not true. It is not nostalgia, but the urgent social and political demand of most citizens, including the most active part of society. This request, first of all, involves the requirement of social justice and order, order for the benefit of the majority, not for the sake of office and oligarchy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. At the same time, two factions -- the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" -- demand a 30-minute recess to make a statement. Since I agree to publish the statement immediately, the word is John Stojko, please the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Ivan Stojko, Party “For Ukraine”. I want to make an application for my assistant Vitali Orotyuk's arrest on the night of Saturday for Sunday in Ternopol. How this happened and why he was detained, let me brief you. As I went home with my wife and young children — a two - year - old daughter and a six - year - old daughter — my assistant was unreasonably detained and began to demand documents. By showing the documents, the identification of the assistant national deputy, the pensioner of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the disabled person of the war, the police didn't pay any attention to it completely, and it started, as it were, a burnout. [[He became disabled in his duties as an officer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs]] After that, five of the militias, pardon the word, literally twisted the helper in front of his wife and children, dragged him into a garland of fame, and brought him to a drug dispenser. Without looking at it, they set an average level of intoxication and threw it into the cell. At the same time, when he was taken there, he was given a vodka shot, pardoned, and beaten the phone so that he would not be able to call me, and according to Ukrainian law, they refused to notify me of the status of the National MP. They were told that the law was not written for them, and their authority, that it was a direct language, knew about the detention. So they weren't afraid of anything at all, and they took steps like this. But what I'm saying is that they didn't just keep it, they tore the clothes off of it, they beat it. And now, if you look at this person, you can say without any analysis what there is, really, meaning on the face and on the body. And this reminds me of a simple question not just 37 years old, catholic or catholic Gestapo or NCCD, it's a return to the past. And we must all say "stop" to that lawlessness, so all that is being done in our nation. And I am now addressing not only the deputies of different factions, but you, as a colleague, to the left, to the right, to the centrists, to the party of power. And personally to Mikhail Chechtov, who says we've come for a long time and we're going to create democracy in the country. Mikhail Vasilovich, this is not a democracy, and I want you to say that too. I am addressing the President of Ukraine. I want to meet with him and tell him about this situation and personally to take it on his own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u19	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u20	I, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, ask that my statement be made in the form of a request to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the Security Service. Since I don’t believe the police anymore, I don’t trust the minister who today dissolved his department’s statement that he had beaten himself as a helper, he was drunk, God knows what he was doing there, and so on. So these disadvantages must be stopped. And let us all go together, as it was done in Crimea, where both the Communists and the motorists joined together, and all to stop this vachanal. Because it's before the election, we're all on our knees and tomorrow we're going to be picked up by you, leaders of the dominant faction, as it was in the 37th year. And that's why I don't want it to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u22	I want democracy for us to really build Ukraine in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! With regard to John Stoyk's statement, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appeal to the Attorney General's Office, to the President of Ukraine, as you insisted, with an appropriate parliamentary request from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll get the official information, then we'll figure out how to do it. Dear colleagues! As for the other proposals made by representatives of the MPs, I also ask that you prepare, if necessary, appropriate assignments. With regard to the speech by Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenka, about the parliamentary election. Dear colleagues! The parliamentary elections will be held in October 2012. So let's all work, if someone really wants to go to the polls, I think they need to get some patience. It is essential that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be effective. So we're going to have to take two decisions on this issue after the TSC meeting in order to have absolute purity right here. I'm counting on your support. As for honourable colleagues, the proposals for the creation of a working group to work on the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, let us see how we need to find consensus on the electoral system. And we have a project, a nice draft of the Electoral Code, which was created by a working group led by Yuri Klukkowski, and if we agree on an electoral system, and the proposal here sounded like a mixed electoral system of 50 by 50, everything else would be a technical question. And you know that everyone today is saying that we need to create the Electoral Code, by the way, it's a recommendation from the Council of Europe. So I'm convinced that once the local elections are over, we're going to get the election code active. Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that you consider a section on the inclusion in the agenda of a series of bills. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on financial security for the activities of the project]] [[Registration number 7207]] [[government]] [[10:39:03]] For 240 Decision taken. Since, honourable colleagues, the committee has already considered this bill and the Supreme Council has included it in the agenda, we have reason to consider it in substance at the evening meeting. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the reasonableness of the application of a charge under guard]] [[Registration numbers 7084 and 7084-1]] Please vote. [[10:40:01]] For 388 Decision taken. I'd like to ask, there's a committee, so we can look at it, if there's our will, at the evening meeting. Registration number 7097 is a draft Act amending the Tourism Act of Ukraine to inform the consumer of tourism services. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this bill. [[government]] Please vote. [[10:40:44]] For 354 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily drafts of Laws 7221, 7133 on the amendment of the Law on State Procurement and the draft Act on State Procurement on the provision of training and participation in sport competitions and actions at the all-Ukrainian and international level is now put to the vote. [[Registration numbers 7221, 7133]] Please vote. [[10:41:33]] For 326 Decision taken. I ask the committee to prepare this matter for consideration. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity. [[on the sale of allowances at auctions]] MP's Bill, author - Gregory Kaletnik. Please vote. [[10:42:13]] For-47 The solution is not supported, or the question is not included in the agenda. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the abolition of the national jury institution in criminal proceedings]] [[Registration number 7154]] The MP's bill. [[10:42:53]] For 302 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies. [[on the procedure for the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] Registration number 7232. It's a parliamentary bill. Please vote. [[10:43:29]] For 347 Decision taken. I ask the head of the Committee, Alexander Alexander Omelchenka, on Wednesday at the committee meeting to consider this issue so that we can decide on the decision of this plenary week. I'm betting on a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the draft law, government. [[Registration number 7243]] On the amendment of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on the change in duties on certain types of food products]] Please vote. [[10:44:13]] For 241 Decision taken. I would also like to ask the committee to consider this bill expeditiously, this is the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft regulation on ensuring the unhindered activities of the media during the 2010 pre-election period. Registration number 7100. Why not immediately vote on this decision and thus demonstrate our solidarity? Shall we discuss it? Can we vote, no objections? Is there a denial? Then let's find a compromise solution and look at it as a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. The reporter is Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Is Irina Volodymyrna there? [[10:45:20.]] For 218. Decision taken. Irina Volodymyr, please. The spokesman is the head of the committee, Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, thank you for putting this first. I'll save your time. I just want to remind you that a month ago, the 354 national MPs voted in favour of an appropriate decision to introduce a moratorium on the pre-planned screening of the media during the electoral campaign. But cynicism is really a situation, as my colleague, Andrew Shevchenko, said, is that this decision was put to the vote in the room on November 5. So we had to think whether it was a decision to make, or whether it was a decision to make. I want to say that we, as the Temporary Censorship Investigation Commission, have appropriate references to our colleagues' widows, especially from the regional media, who complain that tax authorities visit them from time to time to ask them these questions, for which there is no basis in principle. And our colleagues in the media believe that this has to do with the election. I want us to put in place today in solidarity this decree, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has always adopted in good time with all authorities. And that was in the days of President Kuchma, in the days of President Yushchenk. It is indeed surprising that 10 days before the end of the election campaign, you and I will come to this vote. And so I would also like to ask our distinguished speaker, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, to sign this decree today and send it to the President urgently today, so that there is no funny story that this decision will finally be signed on November 5th by the President of Ukraine, and we'll just put a little note that we've accepted it. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Andrew Shevchenko, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media, and Information, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u26	Colleagues, we've wasted so much time adopting this decision, so I'm going to be as concise as possible. The draft decree is unanimously supported by members of the committee. We're repaying an old debt. I don't think it's very beautiful for the Supreme Council that we're considering this decision 11 days before the end of the campaign. So I urge everyone to be unanimous in their support. This is one of the things that can unite our hall, and the media need it. Please vote, stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergey Podgorny, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u28	Please give the floor to the national MP Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u29	Mikola Tomenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I join in making such a decision. I think there's a shared responsibility here, I would say, a certain irresponsibility that we're considering this decision when the election campaign is almost over. And the only organizational thing to do is to do it the following way. This is the Supreme Council's ruling, it takes effect after the publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, so once we support it, we need really fast editorial, organizational things to decide for the decision to be published, then it becomes valid. And of course, the determination is usually, in fact, good will, because we recommend tax, I think today, of the information that I have, is really a lot of tax abuse with regard to the media, and that's what's going on with the most tax institutions. My travels show that, unfortunately, we have resumed the active use of sanepidemstations, fire stations, other structures that have had to settle the wrong newspaper from time to time with their checks or other matters. Of course, it would be desirable for the Cabinet of Ministers at its next meeting to duplicate the appropriate instructions and, of course, the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting to take into account, although once again, the time is extremely short. Instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to raise the subject of the media, I want to say that today there is enough evil or problem, what I call the abuse of my authority over the heads of the district administrations in part of the district broadcasters. If you look today at the information given by the district broadcasters, I have the impression that soon they will be broadcasting directly as the governor moves from the office to the district administration -- such love and respect for the governors has already appeared. So I want them to understand that they're actually television that shows about the region's life, not about the governor's life, and they're doing it in an appropriate way. Just like the first national to decide that we have a prime time for families to show fights without rules. And I, you know, included on the roof -- one of the most outstanding of the Ukrainian worlds -- and on the Day of Cossacks and I saw two hours at the First National Day honoring our Ukrainian traditions: there were fights without the rule of Dagestan against Petersburg, the cube of the Russian Federation was fought without rules. This is for our money at First National, which has already been declared social, such an attitude toward Ukrainian traditions, family traditions, and budget. What they're showing. So I am in charge of supporting the decision to start doing it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u31	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Unlike our political opponents, who are concerned only with the outcome of the elections, it is important not only for us but also for the process of holding elections, as the result is essential for internal consumption. Yes, it is important who will become mayor of the White Church or Ivano-Frankowska, but more important for the country, because the nature of its democratic process, its freedom, its objectivity will be judged by Ukraine in the international arena. And the President's election, which went through fairly, objectively, transparently, they pulled out of the dirt, washed away the dirt of the country's image. And we would also like the local elections process to be viewed positively by the international public as honest, transparent, objective, and to further strengthen the image and reputation of the country. In this context, it is necessary to consider this decision, as the media provide an opportunity, a space for discussion, an open voice, the views of individual political forces, individual people's candidates in different levels, and thus, on the one hand, ensure transparency, the objectivity of the process, create a level playing field for political competition in the country and, again, I repeat, strengthen the image of the country in the eyes of the international public and, above all, the observers who will monitor these elections, and, on the other hand, give the electorate a clearer and clearer, clearer, more informed and conscious choice and determine the same with effect, as the result. voters are concerned about the outcome, and more as politicians, we should be concerned about the process, the process objective and transparent. Therefore, we will do our utmost to ensure that the elections are conducted honestly, objectively, transparently. In this context, we propose to support this decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u33	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you for what we have already done wrong by shortening our consideration of the matter, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on this issue, by making a brief procedure. Why? Because what is written in the decree? The Cabinet of Ministers will take steps to stop the checks. Apply shutdown measures. Well, who's gonna do it? Or the Cabinet of Ministers? The Minister's office will tell me that the Security Service is in charge. It's out of order. You've passed the law most of the laws you've returned to Ukraine by the age of 37. In article 31 of the Law on the Security Service, you have abolished parliamentary control in general. Who will carry out your decision? At least write: The Security Service, the Public Prosecutor's Office, write at least, the Ministry and other authorities or the Antimonopoly Committee, or the Ministry of Public Health, and so on. This has to be written down. So what I'm suggesting is that we also write down law enforcement agencies like this, so we don't take action, we stop testing. That's the first one. The other one. Well, I'd like to see a colleague of Chechetov speaking out here and saying that there have been transparent parliamentary elections, presidential elections, and now the local elections are so transparent and fair. I'll get to Russian. And you know that Prime Minister Azarov came to Odessa with your representative of the Antimonopoly Committee, several ministers. So what? And she was openly admiring Odessa's slanderousness that she would have turned there 50 years ago. Let there still be roads in Kiev, include heat in time, and water like Odessa. But it's not, unfortunately. And so, Your Honor, I would like the media to have a conscience as well. Not like on September 30, when the theatre took place, Yalta, an international forum, and then the Constitutional Court. And then it's only Lebedino's osero.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u35	Finish up, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u36	I'm done. So we need to make a more firm decision, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we want the calendar to be 2010 instead of 1937. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The fact is, however, that respectable colleagues, the factions, from the factions, may take 1 minute from those factions that did not take advantage of the right to speak. At the same time, we were really late to make such a decision. And on the Conciliation Council, there was a proposal that we establish in the electoral code that there should be an automatic rule of law that there is no media scrutiny in any election campaign. That's the first one. The other one. Why are we so late on this issue? Because the committee asked him to look at it on November 5. And Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov suggested that the Conciliation Council consider it first today. It is for justice's sake that I must say, dear colleagues! The offer was made by Yuri Karmazin. In the second paragraph, recommend that the State Tax Administration of Ukraine write: “law enforcement authorities” through whom it continues to follow the text. No objections? Well, let's decrypt in preparation for publication. With this proposal in mind, I am voting on the decision of the committee on adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft decree, registration number 7100, to ensure the unhindered activity of the media during the 2010 pre-election period. Please vote. [[10:58:07]] For 364 Decision taken. Tomorrow this decree will be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, a number of draft laws are proposed for consideration in a second reading. I am announcing for consideration the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Limitation of State Control of Economic Activity. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Královska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, we are today considering a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation to restrict the state regulation of economic activity, which was presented by the President of Ukraine. The document deals with the reduction of licences. There is no doubt that licensing is an important public function and is also one of the stages of business and power interaction. But in Ukraine, unfortunately, cooperation and cooperation have led to total corruption and has become a system of additional conquests and business trips. Today, 64 activities are licensed under this Act. More than 40 government authorities have issued licences. The licensing system is extremely complex and confusing. Only about 20 laws of industry regulate the licensing mechanism. Surprisingly, in Ukraine, they do not want to invest in money either domestically or externally. Ukraine is a leader in increasing administrative pressure and corruption, which is much less economic freedom in our country than in many African countries. There are two criteria worldwide for the licensing system and appropriate permits are issued. The first criterion is a potential danger to society, the citizen and the State. The second is access to limited resources. That is, in both the first and the second cases, licensing acts as a support mechanism for public policy and protects the interests of citizens in particular and of society in general. It protects people's right to subsoil or any other limited resources and protects the safety of citizens from random or simply unconscious entrepreneurs who might engage in potentially dangerous activities. In Ukraine, about 30 per cent of licences do not meet these criteria. The aim of this law is to reduce their number and allow entrepreneurs to breathe freely, remove additional barriers to corruption. For about three years now, our committee has been carrying out systematic work, and we plan to reduce the number of activities to be licensed. Those norms that are being considered today are really a big step forward. We are reducing at the same time 23 activities to be licensed. This will be a real approach to the entrepreneur and the authorities'desire to show that they are ready to deregulation in the country. Thank you for your attention. The Committee requests that this document be supported and adopted as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the amendments. Amendment number one, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting? And the 2nd amendment is also rejected. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will support all the amendments that are written here. Some are less important, others more important. The first amendment concerns that I propose article 82, part 3, paragraph 1, with the symbol 7 to put it in the following wording: “No transfer in the established order of hazardous chemical sources of electricity with a capacity of 7 amper-hours and more for the disposal of an enterprise licensed to carry out manufacturing activities and the disposal of waste chemical sources of electricity.” I think it's about serious things that you can't just delete. I'd like to support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u41	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u42	This amendment is rejected because the production and disposal of spent chemical sources of electricity should not be licensed according to the concept of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u43	I'll bet you vote number one, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:03:12]] For-32 Correction not supported. Amendment number two, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. I'm really sorry that the concept doesn't predict the dangerous chemical sources that we're polluting the environment, and we didn't support this amendment with you. Well, I'll make sure she gets through. Amendment 2 refers to the title and part of the first article 145 as follows: “Contravention of the conditions and rules governing activities in the field of telecommunications, postal communications and the use of radio-frequency resources in Ukraine, provided for in legislation, licences, permits”. “Contravention of the conditions and rules governing activities in the field of telecommunications, postal communications and the use of Ukraine’s radio frequency resources, provided for in legislation, licences and permits.” It's about the fact that all of this also affects the ability of the state -- it's a radio frequency resource -- and the quality, and even the way they listen to us. Because, you know, it's already disruptive even when you're using the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u45	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 2, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:04:38]] For-34 No correction supported. Amendment by Eugene Kirilchuk, number 4. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment number 5, Scubenko the author. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on. Correction seven, Scooby. Don't insist. Yuri Carmazin, 8th Amendment Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment comes out of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, or of the old or the new one you want. I propose in paragraph 9 of Part Two of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Geological Service, that the following should be published: the issuing of licences for exploration, or the exploration of useful fossils for the extraction of useful fossils from breeding sites that are of general significance and included in the State Fund for Commodities of Useful Mines, as well as for the extraction of precious metals and precious stones, precious organic stones, semi-preferential stones, and verification of their compliance with licensing conditions. Someone has to do this activity on behalf of the state, I'm already explaining it. Because it's not simple things, we can't just treat them like that, you know, like before. To the pie trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u47	I'm betting on the vote for amendment number eight, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:06:22]] For-38 No correction supported. Amendment number nine, Yuri Carmazin, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National Deputies, I propose part of article 10 of Ukraine's Law on the National Geological Service of Ukraine to make such an editorial: monitoring of compliance by users, regardless of the form of ownership, requirements for Ukrainian legislation on nadra, licensing conditions, and established standards, rules and regulations on geological study and use during mining of beneficial fossils, is carried out by a specially authorized central authority from geological research and use by the National Geological Control Service of geological exploration and exploitation of useful fossils, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very important for us to realize that we still have, so far, the privatization and everything else that we've got going on, that's our nadra. That's why I'm convinced that control should be appropriate for users to follow these rules. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u49	I bet the vote on Amendment No. 9 Yuri Karmazin [[11:07:55]] For-43 No correction supported. 11th Amendment, Scooby, does not insist. Yes, the 13th doesn't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 12th? This is the amendment of the People's Deputy Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u50	She's a student.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u51	It's accounted for, this amendment. I'll bet. May I have your attention, Your Honor, to vote on Amendment No. 12, which the Committee has taken into account, for its confirmation. [[11:08:43]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Please, the microphone, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in such a case when we delete the amendments, there is certainly such a procedure, as provided for by the Rules, but I would like them to be. Some explanations were given, particularly by the committee, in this case. It was suggested that licensing in accordance with special laws would be subject to such activities as natural gas. Now the activity in the natural gas market has been eliminated. The committee did exactly what it did, absolutely right. And I don't know, Comrade Chechetov, why did you do it, for the sake of who, for what strength? Because of this, the committee did the right thing. I don't know what Natalia Yuriovna is silent about, she did the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u53	Amendment 13, Scooby, don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u54	I'm silent, but there's a majority. Most decide how to vote. We've given our concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u55	Amendment 14, Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, in the part of the first article 9 – “See the economic activities that are subject to licensing” of the Ukrainian Law “On the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity”, I propose that the deleted paragraph one of this content be restored – “Search or exploration for beneficial fossils”. To restore the deletion of paragraph five of this substance: extracting beneficial fossils from ancestral sites that have a national state — I would stress that people are good! - the state-wide significance and inclusion in the State Fund of Beneficial Fodders. To restore the deleted paragraph 25, which is written on “the conduct of disinfection, disinfection, derational work”. Restore paragraph 64: “produce perfumer-cosmetic products using ethyl alcohol” and restore item. The production, 75, of chemical sources of electricity, cooking and the disposal of chemical sources of electricity. Because it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we've already voted on some of these issues. At the same time, the People's Deputy has the right to request the election of Amendment 14. I'll put her to the vote. [[11:11:34]] For-59 No correction supported. The amendment of Eugene Kirilchuk. Are you insisting on her? Correction of the 15th. No, it's not. Vasil Gritzak, number 17. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. We're going to the 18th. The 18th amendment of the People’s Deputy Korja is considered by the Committee. Please, Natalia Juryovna, because it is required to put it to a vote, your reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, three amendments to the Korja People's Deputy were taken into account in the bill. And the objective of implementing these amendments to the bill was to balance Ukrainian legislation. Literally a few months ago, Parliament adopted the Gas and Gas Act, which provided for a State licensing function. Now that we do not implement this rule in this law, we break up and once again create a legislative conflict. Therefore, of course, the Hall decided on how to proceed, but the Committee felt that balanced legislation and the consideration of all additional laws in the Act would reduce corruption options and reduce the possibility of rereading our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u59	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 18, to confirm it. [[11:13:19]] For the 18th. The correction is not supported, so it is deleted. 21 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I propose an article that provides for the licensing of activities, to be amended, to put paragraph 31 in the following wording: “Activities in the field of visa services and mediation in employment abroad”. So far, it has only been written "intermediation in employment abroad". Life shows that the activity involved in the provision of visa services is in such a way that it requires the same state control. For this reason, I ask that we add these words to this paragraph, “activities in the field of visa services”. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u61	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 21 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:14:37]] For-23 No correction supported. Amendment 24, Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 24 requires that paragraph 42 of part 1 of Article 9 reads as follows: “Action involves collecting, processing, storing, protecting, using information that forms a credit history.” It's broader than what's currently envisaged in this version, it's just the collection and use of information that makes up the credit history, and it's about processing, storage, protection. So these three components, which are a little bit different and larger than the content of credit stories that are necessarily to be accounted for, are somehow not counted. So I'm asking you to consider this amendment, please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u63	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 27 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:16:01]] For 20 The decision is not supported. What amendment? I'd like to keep an eye on you. We're going back to the 25th Amendment of the People's Deputy. Please, Natalia Juryovna, justify the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the Committee supported the amendment of the People's Deputy of the Kraine, and the purpose of support was to ensure that there were two criteria for the licensing system throughout the world. As I said before, the first criterion is the potential danger to society, the citizen and the State, and the second is access to limited resources. This amendment and this proposal were subject to a criterion that works on a potential risk to society, the citizen and the State. We have held long discussions, but the Ministry of Transport has taken such an initiative and we have taken into account the amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, in response to the insistence, I am voting to confirm Amendment No. 25, the author is National Deputy Krajny. [[11:17:36]] For the 15th. The amendment is not counted. Correction 28th. Eugene Kirilchuk doesn't insist? No, it's not. Here we go, the 29 - to - 38 amendment of Yuri Carmazin, and where? It's up to 44.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u66	27 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u67	But we've already voted 27. She got 20 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u68	27 We did not vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u69	27 we voted she got 20 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u70	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we voted 25th Last One, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u71	We voted first on the 27th and then, at the request of Yuri Chechetov, we went back to the 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u72	I didn't sound it, Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u73	I've got a vote, 20 people voted for it, and I'm fixing everything, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u74	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! So you're right. Head's always right. What can I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u75	Please, let's go back to the 27th amendment. No problem. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u76	Then I'll merge with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u77	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u78	This was about what I suggested, Vladimir Mikhailovich, two things to do. First. To re-establish the sixth part of article 12, paragraph 6, as follows: “The provision of radio services with radio frequencies” and the amendment, paragraph 5 of article 7, should be edited as follows: “Licensing legislatively defined activities in the field of postal services”. Because I think it's serious, and by eliminating all of this, we can have other unforeseeable consequences. Similarly, to restore the paragraph of the second part of the sixth part of article 8 after 30 of the amendment, as follows: “The issue of licences and the provision of postal services as defined by the law of Ukraine”, because they are defined by laws, we do not repeal those laws. And also the 31st amendment is to re-establish paragraph two of the eighth part of Article 8 as follows: “Controlling the availability of statutory licences”. That's 31 amendments. Vladimir Mikhailovich, saving time, I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's have the right frequency here. I'll go back to Amendment 27 of Carmine and put it to the vote and then Amendments 30, 31 and 32. We have to put each and every one of us separately. I'll put it to a vote. Amendment 27 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:20:28]] For-25 No correction supported. Now Amendment 29 Yuri Karmazin, I put her to the vote. [[11:20:50]] For-24 No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 30 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:21:09]] For-25 No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 31 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:21:28]] For-25 No correction supported. Now the 32nd Jury of Carmazin and the next, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u80	Amendment 32. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to thank all those who supported the opposition for not supporting them. I propose that the third part of article 8 should be renewed as follows: “Controlling the compliance of postal operators and their separate departments on postal communications, licensing conditions, standards and other regulatory acts in the field of postal services”. And in Amendment 33, please reopen part 13 of Article 8 as follows: “At the direction of the Head of the NHRI, carry out a verification of the reliability of the information in the documents submitted by the applicant in order to obtain licences for the provision of postal services and the conformity of the applicant and the documents provided to the licensing conditions.” And so that we can watch and not be surprised that these services do not match the quality of life of our citizens. And let's not simplify.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u81	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 32 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:22:58]] For-32 Correction not counted. I now put to the vote Amendment 33 Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u82	Fifty-five. [[11:23:17]] For-33 Correction not supported. Amendment 34 Yuri Karmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin. In Amendment 34, Honourable Vladimir Mikhajlovich, the point is that it was destroyed and the rule that was in part two articles 17, which should be restored as follows: “.operators ensure that users have access to tariff information, postal service rules, time-limits for sending mail, postal service modes, non-transferable items, liability of operators to users, the number and duration of the license to provide postal services, etc.”. Without restoring this article, we find ourselves in a situation where we reduce the protection of our citizens and feel that it is better for some mythical business. I definitely don't agree with what we're doing. A loving country makes serious demands for the protection of the rights of its citizens. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u84	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 34 of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u85	Please be supportive. [[11:24:45.]] For-46 No correction supported. Amendment 35. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Honorary National MPs, Amendment 35 refers to paragraph three of article 5, which I propose in the following wording: “. tourist agents are legal persons created according to Ukrainian legislation, as well as natural persons, subjects of entrepreneurial activity who carry out mediation activities with the implementation of the tourist product of tour operators and tourist services of other subjects of tourism activity, as well as mediation activities in the implementation of characteristic and satellite services that have been licensed in accordance with the order established for tourism activities. I invite you, honourable national deputies, and in the 36th amendment, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, there to restore the words “and tourist” and in the 37th sentence in the second sentence to renew the words “without obtaining a licence for tourist activity”, to mention that when our tourists were sitting in Egypt, in Turkey, everywhere. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Amendment 35 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:26:19]] For-39 No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No.36 of Yuri Karmazin. [[11:26:38]] For-24 No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 37 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:26:56]] For-29 Correction not supported. Amendment 38, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, part of the seventh article of article 17, I propose to write in the paper: “the subject of farming is not entitled in his name to use the words ‘touroperator’ and ‘turgent’ without his license to carry out appropriate tourism or tourism activities”. And in Amendment 39, I propose that part five of article 17 read: “No licence may be issued for the tourism or tourism activity of an enterprise subject with the name, the same name, of another business entity to which the licence was issued earlier and the information about it has been entered into the relevant register. And in Amendment 40, I also suggest, which is rejected, that you write: "the tour operator, his whereabouts, his postal props, the availability of a license to carry out tourism activities, certificates in accordance with the legislation and other information. “ I don’t know
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u89	Turn on the microphone. Yuri Anatolyovich, now 41 amendments to make us this group.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u90	Thank you. I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, have come to believe that the Constitution requires the protection of the rights of our consumers, so this information must be written down, and I propose that it be restored, as this is again true of the protection of citizens’ rights. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have now commented on amendment 38, 39, 40. I've saved time. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u91	And the 41st, Yuri Anatolyovich. And let's do the 41st right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u92	Thank you. Let's also put the 41st part of the second article 37 in the 41st amendment in this line: “External legal and natural persons may carry out tourism and tourism activities by creating businesses under Ukrainian law and by obtaining a licence in accordance with the established order to carry out the relevant activity.” I want to comment on this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The point is that foreign tourist companies today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u93	Microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. . foreign tourism companies are using better conditions today than ours. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing? What are we doing? And so absolutely uncompetitive prices in our companies. Absolute non-competitive prices on airplanes and everything else. As a result, taxes are to be made and paid in Ukraine, and our legislation is to be applied. Otherwise, it'll be what's going on all the time. Maybe then you can do everything, like you do right now through Moscow, through Chisinau, through Chinese, through.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 38 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:30:22]] For-39 No correction supported. Amendment 39 of Yuri Karmazin is now put to the vote. [[11:30:43]] For-26 The decision is not made with respect to this amendment. Amendment 40 Yuri Carmazin. I'll put her to the vote. [[11:31:06]] For-29 Correction not supported. Amendment 41 shall be put to the vote. [[11:31:24]] For-28 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 42. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Amendment 42, which has also been rejected, proposes article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the granting of licences for the conduct of the production and the conduct of the lotteries, to be published in such an edition. “The moratorium on the granting of licences for the conduct of commercial activities and the holding of lottery tickets, as provided for in section 23 of section 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, shall be suspended.” And amendment 43. I suggest that part of two articles 15 be made available in such an editorial. “The Bureau shall start its activities from the moment of obtaining the licence.” It's a law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u97	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 42 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:32:42]] For-33 No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 43 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:33:03]] For-32 No correction supported. Amendment 44, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u98	George Carmazin, the Party of Fatherland’s Defenders, continues to insist on the protection of human rights. Paragraph 1, part three, article 16, should be inserted in such an edition. “A fine of up to 5,000 non-taxable minimum citizens’ incomes is imposed for the collection of non-licensed credit stories obtained by this law.” And, well, another point, it's not related to that. Therefore, I ask that this paragraph be voted on separately. And I thank all those who have supported me. I see them by name. Well, I also see those who didn't support it by name. Thank you. I'll act together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u99	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 44 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:34:07]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Amendment 46, we've already voted on it, Yuri Anatolyevich. And there's no need to put it to the vote. Come on, your 47th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! We've been voting on 46 amendments in a different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u101	Yes, we did. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u102	I'll allow myself to notice, to disagree with you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u103	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u104	The point is that it is about amending the Law on Chemical Power Sources. And before that, we changed some of the other laws. So in this law, which we went without other special committees, contrary to what I believe is article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two, in this law I propose to restore. In paragraphs 9 and 10 of the first part of article 2, the words “received licenses for the production and disposal of processed chemical sources of electricity and.” Because it is extremely important what requirements we make in cooking and disposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I place 46 votes against Yuri Karmazin's amendment. [[11:35:45.]] For-21 No correction supported. Carmazin’s microphone, amendment 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 47 also applies to the Law on Chemical Power Sources, which we have also entered into when we consider this law – the Act, which is called “On Changeing the Limitation of State Control of Economic Activity”. So we can regulate that soon the state will have no effect on anything. To restore the fourth paragraph of Article 7 and Article 8 I propose and in the 48th amendment, I ask you to re-establish in the first part of Article 14 the words: “and have obtained a license to carry out activities in the manufacture of chemical power sources according to the law.” Also in this same law, in its 49th amendment, I propose that part two of article 18 and part three of article 20 be restored. And in this law in Amendment 50, I would like to reiterate in the third part of Article 22 paragraph: “Licensing in the field of chemical sources.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the number 47 Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is voted on. [[11:37:15]] For-25 No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 48 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:37:36]] For the 18th. No correction supported. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 49 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:37:54]] For -14 Correction not supported. And there's an amendment to the vote number 50 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:38:14]] For-19 Correction not supported. Yes, the amendments have been voted on. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I very much hope that we are within seconds of a decisive, serious step towards reforming the licensing system in our country, because licensing is often called. Controversy and condemnation, and the damage caused by licensing is seen as seriously narrowing the market base and hindering competition. Licensing has often been only a way in recent years to enhance the authorizing nature of the activities of the authorities. The chronology of the review of laws on the reduction of activities to be licensed begins on 17 January 2008. We've discussed seven bills with you. Several of them have been accepted, several dozen types of licences have already been reduced, but unfortunately we have not yet seen a significant improvement in the quality of services and the quality of life of our citizens. We very much hope that the reduction of more than 20 types of licences in this bill will seriously change the licensing and licensing system in our country. We are now allowing the authorities to show all the possibilities for truly building a business climate and a level of business-State relations. I ask you to support this bill, which is truly revolutionary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts restricting national regulation of economic activity is put to the vote. Registration number 6696. Please vote. [[11:40:23]] For 339 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of an electronic state registration system for operators]] [[Registration number 6261]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailn Leapina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u110	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, this bill was designed to introduce a modern form such as electronic registration. In fact, we believe that this will in some way speed up the registration process itself, although in the course of the consideration of this bill there was a very intense discussion on whether electronic registration can be applied when it comes to amending documents of already existing operators. And in fact, in the end, as a result of this discussion, we did take into account the comments of a colleague of Voropeyev, who proposes to leave the issue of electronic registration only for subjects that are being initiated, i.e. the subject is being created. At the stage of changes in the documents, we suggest that we leave the form that is today, or the paper making of changes. This is primarily due to the fact that, unfortunately, the issue of electronic registration can be used in various raids. And they had to take these arguments into account. So actually, a little bit narrowed down the field of electronic registration compared to what was suggested in the first reading. There are a number of amendments that are considered and not included. Please consider and support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, we have a very happy moment in this law when the position of the committee coincided, and the position of the General Legal Authority. If there is no insistence, we could immediately put a committee proposal to the vote. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u113	Since there is no objection, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of an electronic state registration system for operators]] Registration number 6261. Please vote. [[11:43:17]] For 348 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the rights of concessionaires]] Registration number 4674. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u114	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. Good day, chairman. This bill is submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine after its consideration by the Committee on Economic Policy. The Committee supported the bill and recommends that it be approved. Briefly, what is the point of this bill. Currently, the imperfect legislation that we have in Ukraine allows the concessionaire to purchase land on which the concessions are located, not only for rent, but also for purchase without restrictions, without competition, and so on. Moreover, legislation currently does not limit the size of such land and this may lead to abuse. The bill proposes that the concessionaire be entitled only to the use of the land under the concession and only for the period for which the concession contract is concluded. If he wants to buy this property, please, on a general basis, on the basis of the competition, like all other entities. The bill contains rights, individual rights are taken into account, some are not taken into account, especially by our colleague Karmazin. Why aren't they accounted for? Because these amendments are made to the rules that are not contained in the bill, they are in the laws themselves, but they are not in the bill. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, this is also where the position of the committee coincides with the recommendations of the General Legal Office, which recommends that this document be adopted as a law as a whole. I see. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Vladimir Mikhailovich, “Baby Yaga” does not mind, but suggests. Thus, the first paragraph of the first article of the first sentence of the first sentence is to provide an alternative definition of the word “concession” – “a grant with the aim of satisfying the public and other needs of an authorized executive body, a local self-governance body or other legal owner of property on the basis of a concession contract on the basis of a paid and term basis of a legal or physical subject of the entrepreneurial activity of the right to create, build or manage the object of the concession in the term of payment on the condition that the entity undertakes to create and manage the object of the concession, the property responsibility and the possible business risk”. [[operation]] Since the concessions can also be located on land owned by private property, whose lease also requires legal regulation, that is my explanation, the honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u117	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:46:50]] For-43 Correction not accepted. Correction of the next Jury Carmazin. Please, it's twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you very much to all who have supported the amendment, who have come to realize that the proper definition is to be made. Now, about the second part of the first paragraph, which predicts what a concession agreement is. This is an agreement according to which the authorized executive body, local self - government or other legal owner of property grants, on a paid and term basis, the subject of entrepreneurial activity, i.e. the concessionaire, the right to create, construct or substantially improve the object of the concession and to administer it in accordance with this law for the purpose of satisfying public and other needs, since the concessions may be located on land that is privately owned, whose rent requires regulation. [[or]] [[operation]] And what are the requirements of the treaty, honourable national MPs, I think it's very important that we don't then make legal cases and everything else to be clear in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u119	I'm betting on the vote of Yuri Carmazin, who just put it out. Please. [[11:48:26]] For-50 Correction not supported. Next amendment, Yuri Carmazin, number 4, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 4 refers to the fourth part of the first article, which I propose to determine what the concessionaire is. It is an executive body or an appropriate local self-governance body authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or local self-governance authorities to enter into a concession contract or other legal owner of the property that entered into the contract, since the concessions objects, I have already explained, may be on other lands, first. It's different. I propose to renumber the articles proposed by the authors and to supplement the law with a new article 5.1 “Guarantees of the rights of concessionaires” after article 5 “Legal Principles of Concession”. Instead of supplementing the law with article 24. This Regulation shall enter Set the numbering of the paragraph to two parts of one article 5. Prim as part of two of this article, to be presented in such an edition. No deterioration in the operating conditions of concessionaires in the implementation of the concession contract is allowed as a result of the changes made to legislation in the event of implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u121	Please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 Yuri Carmazin. [[11:49:59]] For-46 Correction not supported. Amendment 7, Yuri Carmazin, microphone, and number 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u122	I sincerely thank all those who voted in favour of the previous amendment. Dear National Deputies! I'm proposing part three, sex five. “ The financial and financial resources of concessionaires who perform concession contracts in Ukraine can only be forcibly removed as an exception to the common necessity on the basis and in accordance with the law and provided that they have been compensated in advance and in full. Forced alienation of such objects, with the next and full compensation of their value, is permitted only under conditions of war or state of emergency.” Dear National Deputies! This amendment protects the Constitution of Ukraine, protects the rights of concessionaires and helps to attract foreign investment into the state. It will help us to avoid the closure of businesses today and to avoid spending money. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u123	Vote number 7, Yuri Karmazin. [[11:51:25]] For-51 Correction not accepted. Amendment 8, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank 51 deputies who understand that a loving Constitution must be implemented, although in 2004, I am convinced that the Constitution of 2004 is in effect and that the coup d'état will not go through, with 16 members of the Constitutional Court. So part four, I suggest, of the 5th Prime. print as follows: “The terms of concession contracts concluded under conditions that are defined in accordance with applicable laws remain valid throughout the entire period of the contract. In the event that after they have been drafted, other conditions are laid down that make concessionaires worse or restrict their rights, such rules become mandatory for concessionaires only if they have previously and fully compensated for the damages that these concessionaires are subject to.” This rule will create stable working conditions and force the initiators to introduce standards that make working conditions worse, to think about the consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u125	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 8. [[11:52:56]] For-56 No correction supported. And amendment number nine. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all those who voted "for" who understands that it is the law, not the mythical legislation, and not the Kabmin regulations, as now, that there are different payments, cards and everything else, and threats. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I propose part five of article 5.1, as follows: “In the case of concessionaires, public authorities or local self-government decisions that violate the rights of concessionaires and the terms of their constitutional contracts, these decisions, taking into account the requirements of part four of this article, shall take effect only after they have compensated concessionaires for the damage they have caused as a result of such decisions.” In all the civilized countries of the world, there are such norms, distinguished national MPs, we have to take into account foreign experience, and we have to avoid restricting the rights of our citizens. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u127	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 9 Yuri Carmazin. [[11:54:27]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Thus, all the amendments have been voted on. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice and supported the position of the committee. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the rights of concessionaires]] [[Registration number 4674]] [[11:55:13]] For 251 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have here a small bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the University Clinic]] [[Registration number 1487]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maksim Georgievicz Lutsky. Let's go straight to Maksim Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u128	After the repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u129	Will you tell the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u130	The committee's decision is positive. But bearing in mind that the Head of the Supreme Council has given the commission to the committee to finalize the bill for second reading, taking into account the Health Committee’s proposals and the comments of the General Legal Authority. The committee at its meeting considered these observations and suggestions and suggested: firstly, to agree with the observation of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority to paragraph 2 of chapter II of the Final Position of the draft law as one which did not meet the requirements of part eight of article 90 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the termination of an unspecified circle of legislative acts in part that contradicted that law and removed it from the draft law. That's amendment number 18 of Kuril. The other one. Agree with the amendment of article 63, paragraph 5, to the amendment of article 63, paragraph 2, of the Committee on Health. Disagree with the comments of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority to section I, paragraph 1, of the bill on the establishment of clinical bases, medical education, university hospitals, and so forth. Because it does not conflict with articles 6, 19, 92 and 120 of the Constitution. The order of establishment and operation of clinics, medical education institutions, university hospitals approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine do not provide for regulation of the powers of the authorities of the State, including local self-government authorities and the way they are implemented. So leave the amendment to Kuril unchanged - amendment number one. The fourth is to disagree with the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputy to Article 30, paragraphs 8 and 5, as these proposals do not address the aim of the bill – to establish rules for the establishment of medical and scientific facilities to ensure the educational process of students with a medical profile and to regulate the relationship between higher education institutions and community health institutions. Amendments 10 and 11. Therefore, in view of the relevance of the bill, the committee supported and invited the Supreme Council to accept it on second reading and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, Olga Gerasimük’s amendments Don't you insist? No, it's not. Next. Yuri Carmazin, amendment number seven, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that this bill is called on to amend the Higher Education Act and it deals with university clinics. Therefore, I propose that article 30, paragraph 8, should be added: “The higher education institution may, on the basis of bilateral agreements with relevant authorities or legal persons, create educational and scientific complexes called ‘university clinics’. [[quotes open]] Because this question is not taken into account, I ask you to vote and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u133	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 7 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:59:09]] For-39 Correction not supported. Who insists on their amendments yet unaccounted for? What is your amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich? 14th. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, 14th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that article 63, paragraph 2, be supplemented by paragraph 5 and that the following should be added: “University clinics, created by higher education institutions, have the right of a legal person and implement their activities on the rights of operational management.” Ladies and gentlemen, throughout the world, existing university clinics are a place where senior students are supposed to advise all those who want to be led by their highly qualified teachers, scientists and practitioners. In fact, student clinics exist not only in medical universities, but also in legal schools. In Ukraine there are legal clinics that exist in law schools or universities and universities. The law clinic is a course that foresees the presence of two components, such as teachers and students. They are organized by the university itself, which employs specialist professors in practical law and formalization as a compulsory or optional subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u135	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No.14 of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u136	Please be supportive. [[12:00:46]] For-34 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that in the second reading, we accept as a law as a whole. The main legal authority concluded that the bill requires a rejection as one that does not have its own object of legal regulation and is conceptually contrary to the Constitution. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on University clinics]] [[Registration number 1487]] Thank you. [[12:01:35]] For-80 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft law. [[Registration number 1487]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:57]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I announce a break of up to 12 hours 33 minutes, that is, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we will continue our meeting. Please invite the deputies in. People's deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues! We must now consider the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to improve the mechanism for the state registration of the cessation of shareholders. Along with it. This is Bill 2260. At the same time, the General Legal Office found that the text of the bill did not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. What is it? The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, passed this bill, which dealt with some articles, and the committee went to other articles to work on it. Therefore, given the fact that this is a violation of the Rules, I ask the committee to bring the draft bill with the law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into line with the next plenary meeting. That's why we can't look at it today. I ask that the secretariat be established and that a committee be prepared for the next plenary week, in accordance with the Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Accelerated Review of Regulatory Acts, adopted by the authorities and officials of local self - government. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Royal Natalia Jurijovna, please. Who will report from the committee? So let's go, dear fellows, and follow the amendments. Eugene Kirilchuk is an amendment rejected by No. 1. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Next. Amendment No. 2 of Eugene Kirilchuk. Don't insist. And the 3rd Amendment of Kirilczuk is rejected. There are no other amendments. Natalia Yuriovna, your bill is under discussion. Don't you insist? Then I'd like your attention, Your Honor. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal administration was concerned with observations. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on Speedy Review of Regulatory Acts Adopted by Authorities and Officials of Local Self-Government. Registration number 7030. Please vote. [[12:37:03]] For 241 The law is passed. I bring to the well-known head of the committee and vice-chairman of the committee that you should bring the bill into line with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, because the committee has stepped out of line with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. [[Registration number 2260]] He can't be seen. Please bring it into line for the next plenary week. We need to look into it. The same applies to the draft Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities. Again, a violation of article 116 of the Rules. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine offered suggestions for one article, and the committee freely went beyond the law. For the next plenary week, please prepare an appropriate committee assignment. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for child delinquency]] Registration number 2327. Reporter: Secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Behaleriy Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your point is to consider a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the increase of responsibility for child delinquency]] On 19 May 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on 19 May 2010. [[on the increase of responsibility for child delinquency]] At the same time, on June 6, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the second reading and, in general, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of 6.7.2010, which regulates the distribution of powers to deal with administrative offences provided for in article 156 of the Code on Administrative Offences, is a violation of the rules of trade in beer, alcohol, soft drinks and tobacco products. Other changes made by the authors of the legislative initiative are also included in the current legislation. In view of the above, it is suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be recommended to recognize that the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 19 May 2010 on the adoption as a basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences in connection with the loss of the project of relevance and its removal from consideration. [[No. 2271]] [[on the increase of responsibility for child delinquency]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, no objection to the committee's proposals? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council resolution on recognition of the Ukrainian Supreme Council decision of 16 May 2010 on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the increase of responsibility for child delinquency]] [[Registration number 2327/P1]] Please vote. [[12:41:06]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. The committee is a technical issue, and the committee proposes that the draft law be withdrawn because the rules proposed in this law are regulated by other legislative acts. I am voting for the return to the issue of registration number 2327. Please vote. [[12:41:47]] For 270. We're back on the subject. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 2327/P1. Please vote. Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[12:42:12]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving bankruptcy procedures and licensing features for the activities of arbitrators]] Registration number 6612. There is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:42:49]] For 197 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economics, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich. The focal point is the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your consideration is given in the draft Ukrainian Law, which deals with the very important question of the activities of arbitrators in the process of restoring the ability of debtors. The purpose of the law is to strengthen control over the execution of arbitrational directors of property managers who manage the sanctions, liquidators in the conduct of bankruptcy cases of borrowers, and to increase the role of the State in the conduct of bankruptcy cases of state-owned enterprises and enterprises whose statutory fund exceeds 25 per cent. In particular, the draft provides for amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code, the Law on Restoration of Payment of the Debtor or Recognition of It as a bankruptcy, and also to the Act on the licensing of certain activities, on insurance. It is proposed that the types of responsibilities of managers, officials, businesses for non-payment of salaries, ownership, waste or possession of property be extended to arbitrators. The law on the recovery or recognition of the debtor by bankruptcy is supplemented by a separate section which defines the features of licensing and control of the activities of the arbitrators, and also reinforces the requirements for their qualifications and retraining. In order to enhance the role of the State in the bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises, and companies in statutory funds with a share of state-owned property exceeding 25 per cent, the State bankruptcy authority has been assigned to appoint arbitrators to carry out the authorizations of property managers and liquidators of the specified category of enterprises. That's what the bill is proposing. In the proposed bill of completion on the establishment by the Cabinet of Ministers of the order of sale of property, it is against admission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is prepared on the basis of the practice and the facts that are already in the process of implementing the law and the activities of the arbitrators. And we also pointed out that these businesses have a growing debt of wages and there are no weights in the state to influence this situation. Therefore, a request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u143	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u144	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, was discussed in detail on the committee's bill of government and a compromise decision was found on two issues. First. The observations of scientific and expert management, many of which have been decided, and this has been agreed by a government representative, to work on the second reading and I, as a national deputy, will submit them personally and they will all be taken into account. Both members of the committee and the government agree with everyone. comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The second problem is a 25 per cent plank that starts to interfere with bankruptcy. Indeed, it is now a critical situation to pay off the debt of wages for those enterprises that are in bankruptcy, and the state should have an impact. On the other hand, this violates the equal treatment of various forms of property in Ukraine, which is provided for by legislation, and it is necessary to seek compromise. I think that by the second reading this compromise will be found between the government, the committee and the coalition representatives, first and foremost, and the law will be adopted in the second reading. I would like to support the committee's decision to adopt this bill on the basis of its further processing of all the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration and the resolution of the issue of plank 25 or 50 percent in the State's involvement in bankruptcy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes that the State Bankruptcy Authority be given the right to appoint an arbitrator and terminate its duties in cases of bankruptcy of state enterprises and companies in a statutory fund in which a share of state ownership exceeds 25 percent. I agree with the observation made by the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar, that there are legal coalitions in the relationship between the state as a shareholder and other shareholders. Well, I think in our view, the faction of second reading is going to be settled, and now we're going to propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u147	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I am addressing you from this rostrum, so that we can explain to the government, I ask most of you to explain to the government that if we intervene in the legislative mechanisms as the government intervenes, I mean voting for those famous changes to the Government Act and to 33 legislative acts, we will soon destroy the entire legislative field and we will do nothing to improve it. And today this bill, which is being passed, is a model of such a bill. First, they propose to amend the Code of Administrative Offences, not to introduce a new bill, a new Code of Administrative Offences, but to supplement it. Secondly, they're interfering with the Criminal Code, and they want to solve something different about attracting arbitrators to responsibility. I emphasize that there is no need for this, because the arbitrator is, if he exercises or misuses his rights improperly, his powers, he may be drawn to criminal responsibility under the valid code provided for in articles 175, 191, because he is a service person, and we have given the decryption of the service person in article 364 of the Criminal Code. It's all written down -- all the crimes in the field of service. There is no need, I would stress, to change the Criminal Code. The same applies to changes in administrative offences. I would like to stress to you that the Scientific and Experimental Authority has concluded that this bill should be turned back to work to take into account the mass of comments they have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u149	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u150	So I think that the bills that are currently under consideration, in particular the restoration of capacity, have continued to do more harm than good. So I would be very careful to approach them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u151	Thank you. I got it. Deputy Vetwicki People's Party, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u152	Vetwicki People's Deputy, Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherskina. Such a restriction would result in the immediate final bankruptcy of enterprises. We need to talk, not about bankruptcy, but about developing enterprises, especially large ones. Instead of legalizing another corruption scheme, it is necessary to start developing, modernizing and creating new jobs in state-owned enterprises, which is vital in a crisis. I propose rejecting this bill and inviting the Government to finally deal with it and start investing in public enterprises rather than destroying them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office thinks it needs to be returned to work. I would like to elaborate on the committee's proposal, on the adoption of a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving bankruptcy procedures and on the specificity of licensing the activities of arbitrators. Registration number 6612. Please vote. [[12:53:00]] For the 250. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 174, “Timoshenko Block” – zero, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 10, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 20. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There was a meeting of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare proposals for changes to the current legislation in connection with the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a decision on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the Act of Ukraine on the amendment of the Constitution of 8 December 2004. The TSK has taken a decision and makes such a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 8 October 2010 to include in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of successive elections of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, city, rural councils and village heads and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[of the village]] [[of the village]] And according to part six of article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, Bill No. 7226 is regarded as such that it has been withdrawn from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is this a technical question to discuss? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. There'll be a chance to discuss it, there'll be more. It'll be a possibility. [[12:54:50]] For 254 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 176, "Club of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 26, "Club of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on leases, registration number 7098. The rapporteur is Head of the State Property Fund Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[12:55:46]] For 210 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we'll give the speech from the committee first. The head of the State Property Fund is now approaching. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u154	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was passed by the previous government of Timoshenko. Then, for political reasons, he was not supported. I served as an MP with Deputy Osaka in the same way. Now we have kept our bill, and the government has passed a bill that takes into account all the comments that were made during the discussion of these bills. So this bill generalizes all the inadequacies that now exist in current legislation regarding leases. He takes into account, once again, all the comments that have been made in previous bills. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Masters, the Law on Renting State Municipal Property, the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the List of Property Complexes of State Enterprises and Organizations, their Structural Units, the privatization of which is not allowed for rent. These changes are aimed at harmonising the standards of these legislative acts and further improving the legal regulation of leases. In particular, the introduction of competitive principles for the transfer of state utility property to rental, the refinement of the valuation of the property. As a result of the adoption of this bill, it has a progressive nature, increased budgeting and more transparent conditions for the transfer to the lease of state utility property. That is why the Economic Policy Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u155	Is there a reporter? None. Please sign up for the national MPs. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u156	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill removes, with the adoption of this bill, duplication of restrictions on the rental of property and objects provided for by a valid legislative base by defining exclusively the special provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, to the fullest and specific list of objects and property prohibited to rent. The adoption of this bill will increase the effectiveness of the resolution of rental arrangements by reducing the time-limits for the transfer of property to lease terms. Information about objects that may be leased, as well as the cancellation of the non - marketed wage limit for rentals of entire property complexes. The proposal for a faction of the Party of the Regions to the session hall -- to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u157	Katerina Vaschuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u158	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party, Lithuanian Block. Indeed, the positive effect of this bill is that competitive rules for the transfer of state and municipal property to rentals are being optimized, namely, through the introduction of a preliminary study of the demand for such objects. And the publication of lists of objects that may be leased. That's a step forward and a good one. It is also positive that the increased efficiency of the organization of leases is done in a way that shortens the lease time. However, there is a remark and by voting on this law in the first reading today, we wanted the second reading by both the committee and those who would work on the law to be more clearly defined the conditions for assessing the rentals of state and municipal property. Because this is being done today in accordance with the master code approved by the Cabinet, and the rent assessment is being carried out at a cost. And in the paper, there is no clear method in the bill as to how the assessment will be carried out, or, as stated in the Code of Masters and in accordance with the Cabinet's decree, whether there will be any other position in this regard. And this is a very important question, because it can be decisive, decisive in what kind of people it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u159	Dmitry Vetwicki, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u160	Dmitry Vetwicki, Yulia Timoshenko, Batkivshina Party. The bill substantially limits the right of State enterprises to rent their property. State-owned enterprises will now be able to sell it to no more than 200 metres of their area. In practice, this restriction will mean the inability of public enterprises, which are virtually not funded by the State budget, to hold on somehow to the money of tenants who normally need accommodation. After all, there is often nothing left in the premises of the state-owned enterprises. Such a restriction, we believe, will lead to a rapid and permanent bankruptcy of enterprises, especially large enterprises, which will later sell to the business people in need and sell for kopecks. I propose to reject this bill and start investing in public enterprises rather than destroying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to adopt a bill on the basis of which the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority holds the same position. The proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on leases is therefore put to the vote. [[Registration number 7098]] Please vote. [[13:03:32]] For 246 Decision taken. By factions, please: Party of regions - 170, Block of Timoshenko - 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" -12, Communists - 25, Block of Lithuania - 20, non-fractional - 19. Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed in the draft Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas. The rapporteur is a member of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, Merkusz Viktor Timofiyovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Romanyuk Mikola Prokopovich. The proposal is similar to that of a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:04:28]] For 203 Decision taken. Yes, please, reporter Victor Timothy Merkusz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, there is the Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act, which aims to introduce 100 per cent of all consumers in Ukraine, with further reductions in natural gas consumption and reductions in government spending on subsidies and benefits. As of September 1, this year, 13.3 million domestic consumers in Ukraine. And only 8.1 million are equipped with accounting devices, or 61 percent. This means that about three billion meters [3 billion m] of cubic gas is consumed without calculation. First of all, it's 173,000 consumers who consume complex natural gas, including heating, about a million for heating water, which is a gas column, and a gas plate. And about four million are consumers who use gas to cook food. The law is calculated in a step-by-step manner, starting on 1 January 2011, by 1 January 2018, to ensure that absolutely all consumers of Ukraine are provided with accounting devices, namely: consumers who consume comprehensively – by 1 October 2011 – for heating water and cooking – by 1 January 2016 and only for cooking – by 1 January 2018, for all other consumers, as I have already said – by 1 January 2011. This means that after these terms, if the consumer refused to equip his apartment with an accounting device, he would not be given gas, but that is the norm. Order will be further established as to how this will be determined, so that there will be no abuse, by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The result will be full volume.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u164	The other one. There will be reduced consumption of natural gas. The amount released will be allocated to the population for the purpose of costing them and, as I said, will be reduced expenditure from the budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u165	Thank you, sit down, please. Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u166	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the committee at its meeting on September 22, 2010, reviewed the bill on the provision of commercial natural gas accounting, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is aimed at introducing commercial natural gas accounting for all consumer categories to control the use of resources, natural gas and natural gas in order to meet the needs of the population and energy enterprises. The main scientific and expert management, supporting this legislative initiative as a whole, believes that the solution to the issue of the provision of natural gas accounting for the population is to be implemented through the development, validation and implementation of the relevant target programme and the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes. As for individual suggestions and comments that were not included in the bill and that our committee is working on in preparing for the second reading. In the Committee’s view, it is useful to establish the ratio of financing the work with the provision of natural gas to the population by natural gas operators at regulated tariffs, its distribution to the relevant territories, and the cost of the state budget. It is also necessary to establish not only the responsibility of natural gas consumers but also the rules governing their rights. It is important to expand and clarify the range of issues related to the overall responsibility of the participants in the work with the provision of natural gas accounting. In general, the discussion committee noted that the bill had largely achieved the objectives of controlling the use of natural gas resources to meet the needs of the entire population and the thermal energy companies that provided services to the population using this gas. The bill will also help to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation on common rules for Ukraine's internal natural gas market. The Committee recommends a security bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u167	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u168	The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to ensure the commercial accounting of natural gas is adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u170	Yes. Please record the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Andrey Pavlovski, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, is referring the right to the speech to Alexander Goodimi, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u171	Yes, please give Alexander Goodimi your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u172	Alexander Goodima, Timoshenko Street. The next thing you know, the party's gonna be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u173	People's Deputy Gudima, Timoshenko's House of July – Fatherland. Only my speech will be with the minus badge, I will convince the hall not to vote in favour of the proposed bill for the following reasons. During the committee’s discussion, the bill found that there was no source in the budget to carry out well - intentioned purposes: to ensure that both the population and the budget are accounted for, as well as individuals. But it was found that there is a source and this source is called the target tariff supplement. So what comes out of this is that, apart from the increase in the price of gas from September 1st, the declared increase in the price of gas by Vice-Prime Minister Tihypk from April 1st, we're going to have another bonus from January 1st. Who's going to pay for setting up counters for categories that don't have them? Of course, those who have long ago had counters that will go, do you think, to whom? It was a long time ago when Mr. Firtash on the Inter channel stated that he controlled 75 percent of all district gas supply companies. During the work of the government of Yanukovicz-Azarov, he already controls 90 percent. So the target tariff allowance will go through the financial flows to the Firthash Empire and Mr. Firthash will set up the counters for someone. The bill should be suspended because a grandmother who will be terrorized by having to set up a counter by paying money for it will be told: “Grandmother, pay, because from January 1st we will disconnect you from the gas supply.” Before the fair rules of the game are established, who, at which cost, from which budget, and after the sanctions have been deleted, cannot vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u174	Vladimir Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to stand up to the previous speaker, and I want to say so. Throughout the world, and in countries of the European community, people pay for everything: electricity, water, natural gas. We have a strange country. We don't have a tax code for 20 years, and we don't know what we have to pay for in this life. Therefore, our faction of the Party of the Regions, and I ask everyone, all the factions of our Parliament to support this bill, to adopt it on first reading. It needs to be finalized and adopted so that our citizens know what they are paying for in this life. But they have to pay with a guarantee to keep the gas going, so there's always electricity to keep the heat in our homes. Without this guarantee, today all emergency situations are: the disruptions of the water supply, the gas transport system, i.e. the people themselves do not know what to pay for. Therefore, I would like once again to call upon everyone to vote in favour of this bill, to adopt it on first reading, to finalize it and to make life in our Ukraine European standards accordingly. Thank you for your attention. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Just recently, we discussed with you the decision to do what after the government raised the price of gas. Then I made changes and offered to vote for them. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for putting them to the vote. This was to ensure that the owners of the networks and the owners who supply both gas and water to ensure that they install the counters. Regrettably, the text of the decree then failed to allow the owners to put it. The only thing left is that these counters have to be their own production. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to stress this, may lift up the transcript and see. That's why I'm talking after reviewing this bill. So what's going on? It's private property. And we from the state budget are going to fund the future installation of everything, all the counters. I ask you, in what other country is this being done? They want to sell goods. You're here to buy milk that's spilly, and you're buying metrics, and you're not buying metrics. Have them set up the counters, it's not hard. And the second problem is, and the projects have to be done in private homes and for everything. You figure out how much this population costs. This law will get millions and tens of millions of dollars out of people's pockets, not hundreds of thousands of dollars. Because of this, the supposed responsibility of refusing physical persons, entrepreneurs, and thus closing down 20 percent every month during the reign of your authority. Responsibilities are foreordained by others. That's why I agree with Goodyma: you can't vote for this bill, let Firtash pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee's proposal is that you accept the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office made a number of comments to this bill, which must be considered when preparing the bill for second reading. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act. [[Registration number 7024]] Please vote. [[13:17:30.]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party - 173, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 3, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional - 15. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. [[on State-to-State-to-State-to-customs benefits]] [[Registration number 6506]] A motion to consider this issue is put to the vote under a reduced procedure. [[13:18:15]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Muštinin Vitaly Vadimovich. Oleg Anatolyovich of the Kings will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u179	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, which is designed to ensure the proper performance of the labour authorities and the social protection of the population, as defined by the Ukrainian legislation, in the handling of disputes in judicial bodies. It is proposed to amend article 4, paragraph 7, of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs, which was adopted in January 1993, in part of the establishment of state-of-the-art benefits. I want to point out that our organs, our organs then had social security. But in 1997, social security agencies were reorganized into labour and social protection agencies. Accordingly today it is necessary to amend the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs in order to bring into line with current legislation the very names of the authorities entitled to benefits on payment of government duties. The bill also provides for a new edition of article 4, paragraph 7, of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers in part of the exemption from the payment of State duties by the labour authorities and social protection of the population, the applicants and the defendants for appeals to the court for the appointment and payment of all kinds of state social assistance, compensation, payments and allowances established by the Ukrainian legislation. The importance of the bill is also that today, in order to carry out the procedures for the prosecution of judges' decisions, it is necessary to pay a stick to which the cost of work and social protection of the population is not foreseen. Dear National Deputies! Please support the draft amendment to article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs and adopt it on first reading as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u180	Thank you. Yes, Oleg the Kings. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u181	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, allow me to allow the position of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy on the draft Law amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 09.06. [[on State-to-State-to-State-to-customs benefits]] [[Registration number 6506]] 2010 The bill proposes to establish that public service payments are exempt from the employment and social protection of the population, prosecutors and defendants for appeals to the court for the appointment and payment of all kinds of state and social assistance, compensation, payments and supplements established by Ukraine's legislation. The current legislation exempts social insurance and social security authorities from regressive claims against the person who caused the damage, the sums and benefits, and pensions paid to the victim or members of his family, and social security agencies from the claims for wrongly paid assistance and pensions. In connection with the liquidation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Social Protection and the establishment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on their basis, it is necessary to introduce the provisions of the above - mentioned decree in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine in order to properly carry out the work and social protection of the population of tasks defined by legislation in the handling of disputes in judicial bodies. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u182	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u183	accept as a foundation and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Andrew Pavlovsky, please. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u185	Respectable compatriots! Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party of “The Fatherland”. The bill proposes to exempt public authorities from the payment of government duties when they act in charge of matters of appointment, payment of social assistance, compensation, payments and so on, as established by the Ukrainian legislation. Who responds to the other side of the court? Is he the plaintiff? And there are our low-security citizens. Why, then, do we go to such injustice by this law? Government authorities should not pay taxes, but low-income citizens, those who just receive this social assistance, if they believe that it is wrongly counted or underpaid, should. There's got to be one of them. This payment. They'll be skinned by three skins. I think it's unfair, and that's all the more so, that the international agencies of Europe have reported for days that Ukraine and its citizens are the poorest in Europe. Only Moldova is even poorer in front. And according to the UN, 78 percent of the population is poor. So why are we freeing the state from paying the tax, and the poorest citizens have to pay the tax. That's not fair. I believe we should not adopt this law. If accepted, let the poorest, the most destitute, who receive and judge this social assistance be freed from payment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u186	Please, Yuri Carmazin. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National MPs, this "social bill" which has been tabled from one sentence. [[in quotes]] It costs 10.2 million dollars in the budget. But right now I would like to point out not what my colleague Pavlovsky said, although he is absolutely right. I would like to say that by this bill, we encourage the courts' decisions on behalf of the citizens, on wrong payments, on everything else: on pensions, on regressive charges, not to be implemented and accused repeatedly, because no one has to pay for it, no one is responsible, nothing is at risk. Well, you'd think we were wrong. Well, let's wash up. Well, it's nothing that a man walks for three years. And now, with the actual liquidation of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, these lawsuits will go to new courts: the Supreme Court of Civil and Criminal Affairs. That's why I'm against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. There's a committee proposal: to take it as a whole. The main scientific and expert office says that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the committee's proposal: the adoption of the draft Law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs. [[on State-to-State-to-State-to-customs benefits]] [[Registration number 6506]] Please vote. [[13:27:44]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes not only to accept as a basis but also as a whole. There's a denial, isn't there? There's a denial. Then, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare for the second reading on a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:28:24]] For 236 Decision taken. So for the next plenary week, I ask the committee to prepare this matter for consideration. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the settlement of legal relations between custody and care bodies and natural persons in need of care and care]] Registration number 6408. An urgent proposal is being made to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:29:06]] For 204 Decision taken. Reporter, Deputy Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Tolstouchov Svetlana Valentinovna, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Right-wing Politics, Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u189	Dear Head, honourable members of the people, you have a bill for amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Today, many legislative acts, such as the Civil Code, the Family Code, the Ukrainian Children’s Protection Laws, the Family Violence Warning, the Laws on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Persons, and others contain positions that define the functions of care and care authorities, add certain powers to them. But none of these legislations have any idea what kind of bodies are the ones that are responsible for caring and caring. And so this bill regulates two rules: first, article 56 of the Ukrainian Civil Code clearly states that the authorities of care and care are district, district, city administrations in Kiev and Sevastopol, city executives, district authorities in cities, rural, village councils. And the second rule that we want to settle is in article 58, 59, the missing category of children that can be cared for, care is children who are orphans. There are only two categories: minors and minors. So in 58, 59 articles, introduce categories like orphans. The bill is accepted without any comments from Minpraci, MOH, MON, Minfin, Mineconomy, Miniust, supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and accept the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u190	Thank you. Vladislav Valeriovich Zabarski, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u191	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Civil Code, registration number 6408, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes the definition of a system of public administrations to which care and care are provided and the introduction of the rules of the Civil Code of Ukraine into the definition of categories of persons subject to care and care in accordance with the laws governing the protection of children. The Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the proposed draft law in the first reading and adopt it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u192	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if there is a need. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Mishchenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u193	Thank you. I have advice to the hall and to the deputy minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u194	There's only one man left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u195	Indeed, we need to identify both the authorities in the country that care and care for them and the category of persons who are subject to this care and care. But before this bill was drafted, the Ministry did not take into account the following: not only should these amendments be made to the Civil Code, but changes should also be made to the State Administrations Act, because. And then it's going to be a complete change, a complete change. And there will be no conflict between these laws. Because I'm offering you today how to get out of this situation. In addition to the Act on State Administrations, we have the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is 116 articles of the Rules. So when the committee, and I can tell you as chairman of the committee, we will not be able to prepare this bill for your second reading, to amend the Law on Local Government Administrations. So the way out here is the next one. Or send this bill for further work and then prepare for changes to both the Civil Code and the law that I said. Or, secondly, it is now to accept it as a basis, but not to put it in the hall for second reading until you reach the Supreme Council Committee with the Act on Amendments to the Law on State Administrations. Then we can synchronize the second reading and the law as a whole to adopt a new one that you will prepare. So these are my proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance anymore? Olena Bondarenko, microphone, please. For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u197	Respectful colleagues are certainly vital to clarify the list of care and care bodies, as well as what kind of physical persons they will be. Especially in terms of orphans, because today, when the country is consumed by economic collapse, unemployment and social despair are increasing, the number of orphans is increasing. At the same time, in view of what my colleague Mishchenko has just said, it should be noted that it is appropriate to say exactly in which cases the bodies of care and care and district administrations and in which cases such bodies are the appropriate executive bodies of rural, village councils. In addition, the Law on Local Government Administrations needs to be amended, since today the law says that care is possible only for adults. So I think, and the faction supports me, that we should send this bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. It's a major science-expert facility. And what Sergey Mishchenko, chairman of the committee, said, suggests that we return the law for further work in view of the fact that we will enter into a conflict with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I would like to take this into account, but, at the same time, again to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the settlement of legal relations between custody and care bodies and natural persons in need of care and care]] Registration number 6408. [[13:36:29]] For 242 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[dealing with the payment of one-time leave in connection with the adoption of a child]] Registration number 7019. Dear colleagues! Once again, the proposal to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:37:06]] For 212 Decision taken. Reporter: Deputy Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Tolstouchov Svetlana Valentinovna. He is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u199	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s Act of 23 September 2008 on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine introduced a leave in connection with the adoption of a child from January 01, 2009. [[No. 573]] But this law also introduced state aid in the adoption of an orphan child, a child who was deprived of parental care, but this law did not set two rules, it was not settled, the first is the source of expenses and conditions for calculating the salary for employees on leave in connection with the adoption of a child – 56 days. And a category of children who may be given such a vacation when they are adopted. The bill foresees: first, determining the sources of cost coverage and how to calculate the salaries of employees on vacation in connection with the adoption of a child on the basis of the cost of the enterprises involved in the work, or on the basis of the costs of the individual working under the employment contract. And the second. To clarify that a marked social leave can only be given to a person who adopted an orphan child, children deprived of parental care. And this rule will not apply to cases where adoption is carried out by one of the spouses -- this is interfaith adoption if it adopts a stepfather or stepmother. The bill is accepted without the attention of Minpraci, Minfin, Mineconomy, and Minyust, also supported by social partners. In particular, the All-Ukrainian Association of Employers, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Privatized Enterprises of Ukraine, the Association of Renters and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Please support this bill and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u200	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelova, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u201	At its September 22, 2010, meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to regulate the payment of one - time leave in connection with the adoption of a child introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The author of the legislative initiative by amending articles 18-1, 21, 23 of the Law on Leaves and Article 182 of the Code of Work of Ukraine proposes to identify the sources for the payment of leave due to the adoption of the child, the conditions for calculating the salary during the vacation and clarifying the categories of persons entitled to such leave. The members of the committee support the legislative initiative and believe that the adoption of the bill will contribute to improving the protection of the rights of citizens who adopted the child, as well as the creation of conditions for the realization of the right of orphans and children deprived of parental care to family care and will allow the removal of gaps in legislation and agree on separate articles of the Ukrainian Law on Vacations and the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. The joint representative body of employers at the national level and the side of the trade unions support the bill. I also remind you that the bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine as a whole. [[dealing with the issue of payment of one-time leave in connection with the adoption of a child]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u202	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovna. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. So there are no willing speakers. Dear colleagues! We've got to record, we've got a recording, one minute of Helen Bondarenko. Calm down, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! It would be blasphemous to claim that the situation is greatly improved in this way. It is getting worse because, contrary to the requirements of article 52 of the Constitution, the cost source associated with such a vacation is determined by entrepreneurs and natural persons. Thus, the State in the person of today’s authority is squandering itself from the guarantees it is obliged to make in accordance with the Constitution. A leave for an adoptive parent is a State guarantee, which means that the State has to pay for the expenses of these holidays. In addition, it is known that the Ukrainian Vacation Act provides for the financing of maternity leave and maternity benefits from state social insurance. Child adoption benefits are also set at the expense of the funds. We thus discriminate violently against adoptive parents who adopt children deprived of parental care and care.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! Question completed. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. The main scientific and expert office has concluded that it is appropriate to send a draft bill for further work. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on payment settlement, one-time leave in connection with adoption of a child]] [[Registration number 7019]] [[13:43:26]] For 231 Decision taken. The committee's proposal was generally to adopt a bill. Is there a denial? There is a denial, so I ask the committee to prepare him for consideration in the second reading, this bill. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Post Office Act. [[about deposits not allowed to be sent in mail]] Registration number 6577. In view of the proposal to consider the bill on a reduced basis, I put it to the vote. [[13:44:16]] For 204 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Krasnokutsky Sergey Valeriyovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Transport and Liaison with Morocco, Yuri Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft act is designed to implement the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to regulate the provisions of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act, which provides that the order of removal from the postal services prohibited before dispatch is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Article 6 of the Act provides that a ban on the transfer of deposits in postal services shall be removed by operators from the post office in accordance with this law in the presence of a consignor or an authorised person, except in cases established by law. According to article 14 of the Law, objects that threaten life, health, destruction, or damage to property cannot be transferred. A list of items that are not allowed to be sent by mail is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The procedure for removing items that are forbidden to be sent by mail and the order of their disposal is determined by law. According to the conclusion of 22.09.2010 by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications, it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Postage Relations as a basis. After entrusting the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subjects of the right of the legislative initiative to prepare the bill for the second reading and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u206	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich Moroko of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, the Transport and Communications Committee, at its meeting on 22 September, considered a bill amending the Postal Law of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6577]] [[tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers]] The bill proposes to amend the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to establish a list of investments prohibited from sending mail, as well as the procedure for withdrawing them. The Profile Committee supports the bill, taking into account the finalization of the text of article 14 in preparation for second reading. In this article of the bill, it is proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers be given the right to order the withdrawal of contributions prohibited from sending and managing mail. This may be contrary to the provisions of article 41 and 92 of the Constitution, which states that the compulsory exclusion of private property objects can only be applied on the basis and in accordance with the law. The Transport and Communications Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? It doesn't, does it? I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act. [[about deposits not allowed to be sent in mail]] [[Registration number 6577]] Please vote. [[13:48:01]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am introducing a draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Organization and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime. [[on Investigation Units]] [[Registration number 6384]] The proposal is also to consider this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:48:38]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich. The correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u209	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You will have before you a draft Ukrainian Law amending Article 9 of the Law on the Organised Crime. The bill proposes to exclude from the Ukrainian Law “On Organizational and Legal Basiss for Combating Organized Crime” the position that investigation teams are part of the structure of units to combat organized crime. The changes will allow the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to bring out the Special Investigation Units to combat organized crime from the direct subordination of the knowledge body and to bring them into the sole structure of the investigation apparatus of Ukraine's internal affairs. This will have a positive impact on improving the internal affairs structure and, as a result, increasing the response to crime, including its organized forms. In support of the need to adopt an act, I would like to point out the following. The Ukrainian Act of 23 October 2009 No1692 on the amendment of certain legislative acts by Ukraine on the improvement of the institutional and legal bases for prevention, opposition, cessation of corruption and organized crime introduced investigation units to combat organized crime in Ukraine's internal affairs. The processing of statistics provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine show that 517 posts in the Departments of Investigation and Crime have been reduced to 517 posts in the Departments of Internal Affairs and Internal Affairs, organized by groups and criminal organizations, and have been transferred to the units of the Special Units in charge of the fight against organized crime. It should be noted that this practice has already been applied at a time when investigators were in the units of the interregional combat agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u210	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u211	Statistics show that this has had no positive effect on the fight against crime and, more than that, has brought some difficulties. In addition, according to the Criminal Procedure Code, Ukraine's special division in the fight against organized crime is the body of knowledge and the establishment of investigation units in their structure contradicts the essence of criminal and procedural legislation. To sum up the above, I stress that the implementation of the law will remove the shortcomings of legislation on this issue and allow the structure of the investigative apparatus of internal affairs to be improved. Please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u212	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, the Corruption of Zabzaluku Roman Omelanovic. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to be included. Exclusion from the Ukrainian Act “On the Fundamentals of Organised Crime”, the provision that the structure of units to combat organized crime includes the following units. In particular, it is proposed to make the following changes: delete the second part of the sixth paragraph, the second part of the seventh part of Article 9 and the first part of the seventh paragraph of this article; delete the words “the investigation unit” in the first part of the seventh paragraph. It should be noted that during the discussion of the bill, the members of the committee agreed with the arguments of the subject of the legislative initiative and with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the current rules of law violate the principles of procedural independence and the independence of the investigator and therefore withdraw them from the direct subordination of the Chief of the Special Unit, we refer to the knowledge body as contributing to a comprehensive and objective investigation of crimes committed by an organized group or criminal organization. In view of the above, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, at its meeting on 7 July 2010, decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a review of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime, of 13.05. In 2010, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Zabarski, to support and accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session for 15 minutes. Please sign up for the bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u215	Honourable deputies, indeed, at the time of the adoption of Ukraine’s 23rd Law Ten. In 09, a mistake was made to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the legal framework for prevention, opposition, cessation of corruption. The bill and the law now violate the fundamental principles of criminal proceedings regarding the functioning of the separation of knowledge and investigation agencies. The following came into direct administrative, material, and other dependence on the head of the special department of the learning body. And these changes have violated the principles of procedural independence and independence of the investigator, as provided for in article 114 of the Criminal Procedure Code. So today, we really need to make these changes. And I propose that we all support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u216	Yuri Odarchenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u217	Yuri Odarchenko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “The Fatherland Party”. Dear friends, well in general supporting this bill, it should be said that it solves only a very narrow bar of problems. Today, dear friends, we must point out that in fact the state today is built on a stabilizer called corruption. Today, our nation is holding on to essentially stable corruption, not on a national patriotic vector. Did the Constitutional Court’s decision on a constitutional coup not show corruption? Corruption. These are our respectable colleagues, aren't they the kind of men who sit in the back row, carcases? Isn't that corruption? Corruption. Dear friends! Today, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, in his papers when he was assigned to office, has declared a house of 10,000 square feet [10,000 sq m]! Dear friends! I'm talking to the radio and the TV set. These are the two Supreme Councils. It's essentially 200 apartments for regular fighters of the Security Service or the Service or the Service of the Ukrainian Army. Dear friends! So now, of course, we have to ask about the declaration of the income of property and the expenditure of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, their families and their close relatives, as well as the effective system of state, financial control over such declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! Yes, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! The authors of the bill were absolutely right about what they were proposing. But there is one important but. The bill was introduced in May 2010. He was reviewed by the Professional Committee in July 2010. Let us not forget that since October 1, other constitutional provisions, including appointments, have been in force. Here, according to the day this draft decision was written, I'm sorry, the bill was, of course, about what they appointed the heads of the Cabinet of Ministers. But now, according to new constitutional regulations, there are no such powers in the Cabinet of Ministers. So I propose either that I send you to work, or that when they prepare for the second reading, I completely censure you with the rules of the 1996 Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u220	Dear colleagues! Zabarski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u221	The point is that this bill does not apply to the appointment of heads of government. The bill deals exclusively with investigation departments, special departments to combat organized crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u222	Excuse me, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The fourth part of article 9 says: “The Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is assigned to the post and is relieved of office by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers for filing internal affairs with the committee” and so on and so forth. He is now appointed President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as the main draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime. [[on Investigation Units]] [[Registration number 6384]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:59:34]] For 289 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 191 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability for illegal control of a legal person or his assets. [[Registration number 3225]] The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Take down the vote. Dear colleagues, the author proposes to postpone consideration of the draft law. Is there no other reason? No objections? I'll cancel out then. Then the draft Law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the increase of responsibility for knowingly false testimony or refusal to testify is announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Olijnik Svetoslav Vasilovich. The narrator is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. The system's not working, my dear fellows. Take it off, please. [[14:00:50]] For 203 How much is there? Because I don't have a computer. “For” – 203, decision taken. I ask our computers to see why they don’t work for me. Dear colleagues, the reporter – Olijnik Svetoslav Vasilovich, co-rapporteur – Moysik Volodymyr Romanovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've moved on for 15 minutes! Dear colleagues! I continued my morning session for 15 minutes in five minutes to 14 hours. Please, we're working! Yes, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I continued the morning session for 15 minutes. What, what? If there is no reporter, let's sit down and wait for the reporter to get to work. There's a committee. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u224	Vladimir Moisik, political party “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Fellow Members of the People's Parliament! The reporter wouldn't tell you anything but what I'm going to say on behalf of our committee. proposed in an article in the Criminal Code, which deals with the responsibility of knowingly false testimony, the knowingly false conclusion is to reinforce criminal responsibility. To date, only correctional jobs, fines, or arrests are available. The authors of the legislative initiative suggest adding restrictions or waivers. And honourable national deputies, you know how terrible a weapon is in the hands of the investigating authorities, the court is a human testimony. It is always perceived that man's displays are conscientious, honest, Christian in the end, because “do not deceive, do not shave your neighbor” – this is a commandment, one of God's commandments. So when a person deliberately gives a knowingly false witness, he or she is deceiving another person and, worse still, he or she is directing him. State policy in this area should be stricter before it ends up in prison. And that's why the committee supported the proposals of the drafters of the legislative initiative -- our colleagues Olijanik and Andrija Portnova -- to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention. The conclusion of the expert management is irrelevant – it is the legislator's will: whether to strengthen or not to increase criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up for a discussion. You don't? Well, then don't write it down, please. Ivan Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u226	Honorable colleagues, really, when are changes appropriate, such as the Criminal Code for the purpose of increasing punishment? Well, of course, only in cases where a study of judicial practice, whether pretrial investigation or execution of sentences, indicates the inadequacy or inefficiencies of the penalties already in law. Failure to comply with this rule leads to a balance between the provisions of the Criminal Code and the inadequacy of the penalties imposed in the law for the actual dangers of the criminal acts for which these penalties are foreseen. Regrettably, the project presented and the relevant documents submitted to it do not provide sufficient justification for the proposals put forward to increase the penalties in these articles, although these proposals constitute a major part of the project’s provisions. The Explanatory Note states that the dangers of mild punishment are quite easily outweighed by instruments of influence that are unlawfully applied to witnesses. And this statement is the only argument that the initiators of the project justify the need for the project. And that's not what I think is convincing. It would be wrong to believe that an increase in the minimum age of 3 years and a maximum of 7 years would lead to fundamental changes in the assessment of this crime and have a significant preventive effect. Well, we can give examples of getting bribes: although increased responsibility, the number of these crimes does not decrease. So I propose that all the deputies vote in favour of rejecting this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The Chief Research Administration recommends that the bill be rejected. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for knowingly false testimony and refusal to testify. Registration number 4424. [[14:06:19]] For the four of us. How much? For -4. The decision is not taken. In view of such effectiveness, there is good reason to reject the bill. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. After 16 hours, we will continue our plenary session.
