ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:23]] The 419 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukraine’s national deputies, Babayev Oleg Maydanović and Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let me give you some information. I've just had a meeting with entrepreneurs, more specifically representatives of entrepreneurs who work for a simplified tax system. They disagreed with the possible decision to refuse a simplified tax system. In this regard, I have proposed an action algorithm so that we can translate all our emotions and resentments into a constructive plane, which is now being approached by the deputy director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they should agree on the definition of a group of representatives. And this group of representatives is going to meet on the committee, on our profile committee, which is working on the draft Tax Code, so that the representatives of this category of entrepreneurs will see what proposals, comments and changes are made to the Tax Code project, and also make their proposals to make a decision in the decision-making process that will be accepted in a society that will find support. I would now like to ask the head of Valentin Zajchuk's apparatus to organize a proper job and ask Vitalia Homutinnik to also meet with representatives of entrepreneurs to find an acceptable solution. Is there no objection? I'd like to arrange such a job. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, two factions are calling for a recess. Will you make a statement? Please, Sergey Sass has the right to make a statement on why it took a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of the faction “Blank of the Yulia Timoshenko” I am addressing you because most in the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not care about how the Ukrainian people live today and what vicious issues have arisen before them. They're at an additional time in the Supreme Council, increasing the rights and powers of the President, so-called majority have completely forgotten the rights of citizens to a decent standard of living, and they only follow the instructions of the Bank. In the country, daily prices of essential food are rising, government is uncontrollably printing money, currency is dwindling, economy on the verge of collapse. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council, along with the majority, puts into order only matters that are convenient to them, not what the Ukrainian people today need. And they don't care that it's going to happen soon enough for citizens who have their own homes to have a choice: to buy what they need so as not to starve to death, or to pay for an apartment so that they don't get thrown out on the street. That's why it's the only way we can get the majority in Parliament to get over it. To provide for the need of the people was to block the work of Parliament. But as we can see, since yesterday, the Party of Regions has blocked Parliament itself so that the opposition will not be able to put social laws on the table. So any statement made by the majority about the rights of the opposition, as you hear, is a cynical deception. The laws that we are urging are called upon to keep the price of emergency food from rising, to reduce the cost of housing services to the price that our citizens can pay. That's why we don't understand the opposition in the Regional Party's session room and their partners against the laws that ensure that citizens' lives are at an elementary level. Instead, we see a deaf wall. In fact, power and most people in Parliament are more afraid than of the economic collapse, not of the total poverty of the people -- they are most concerned about the local elections today. The authorities fear their own electorate. That is why preparation for the local elections takes place in conditions of unprecedented hard pressure on the opposition forces. They're getting out of the election race, candidates from political parties who don't agree with the politics of active power. The members of the electoral commissions have been attacked openly by the opposition. The authorities, who have consistently lost confidence in the people, are doing everything they can to deprive the people of their right to choose their own representatives. That's why he's mad.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u3	Finish up, please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u4	Thank you. The government today is resisting the adoption of the second reading of the Law on Investigative Commissions. It blocks the creation of a commission of inquiry to deal with what's going on in the elections today. Our political power is convinced that today the authorities are fighting against us, against the opposition, in Parliament -- tomorrow they will defend themselves against their own people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before starting work, I stress that yesterday, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, Wednesday was "the day of opposition". I emphasize that all the questions that were proposed by non-most factions were included in the agenda. And if we were concerned about the people, we had to consider these issues yesterday. Now, let's take care of the people for the next Wednesday of the plenary week. So let's stop the Pharisees and start working at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'm asking the speaker to stop the pharisaic. Announcing the issue of inclusion in order. Well, no. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, in the order of the day, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Well, it's very difficult for me to imagine, to imagine, in which Sirka, the person who came down from the rostrum immediately borrowed his eyes as they blocked the rostrum yesterday, and today he tells us that it was the "regions" and their allies. But I asked for words not even for that matter. Last day, he was in the daytime. There were two bills, mine as the Ukrainian national deputy, namely 6441 and 4535. I understand that those who stood on the stand before this and pharaohed, they don't care, the questions they discussed, whether they were being considered. And I insist that the issues that were not dealt with yesterday by the Supreme Council due to the blockade be put into the order of the day and considered. In particular, Bills 6441 and 4535. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Energy Regulatory Act is under review. Dear colleagues, we're talking about the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, registration number 7231, of regulation in the field of energy security. Please vote. [[10:11:28]] For 272 Decision taken. I refer to the committee head, when the committee is ready, we can consider him at the evening meeting. Then at the evening session, according to the Rules, we will consider a bill of contents at 16 o’clock. Dear colleagues, the second reading of the draft Law on the preparation and implementation of investment projects is announced on the basis of the principle of “one window”. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailna Leapina. Kseniya Mikhailna, please, we just did. She probably communicates with people who do. I will now, my honourable colleagues, report to you in person that the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Some comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. Let's do it. Xenia Mikhailvna, please. Come on, let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u8	I'm sorry. It's about the bill. This bill is designed to sort, first and foremost, the issue of a system of permits for a specific field of work, such as “purpose activity”. In principle, the issue and the problem were accepted by the appropriate professional association. A second reading may be followed up on this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, what's the law? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u9	7032, about the "one window".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u10	Aah! Excuse me! I was thinking different. Then I just don't have a tablet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u11	I'll be talking to you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u12	And I'll comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, the 10th of Eugene Kirilchuk. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 11th, Yuri Carmazin, do you insist? No, it's not. Eugene Kirilchuk does not insist. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? None. Then I'd like to have your attention. I'm voting, I'm proposing to the committee, I'm adopting a second reading, and as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law on the Preparation and Implementation of Investment Projects, based on the principle of a single window. Please vote. [[10:14:47]] For 298 The law is passed. Thank you. Please, Turmanov. Yeah, no, that's how we're considering another law right now. Just a minute. We're looking at another law right now. Well, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to support and submit to the Supreme Council Act 7157 on the amendment of the State Budget 2010 Act on the settlement of the debt of electricity and the carriage of coal by Ukraine. All the issues related to the transfer of 160 million to the Ministry of Coal have been agreed upon, and the Ministry of Finance has done likewise to address this issue. I would like, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to include him in the agenda, to consider. This law is very important, and miners are waiting for this law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking the initiator to negotiate with the faction leaders right now. When the will of all factions is done and the documents are presented, we will return. Because if there's one proposal now, another one, we're going to break the process. Please talk to the faction leaders and give me all the documents. If they are prepared, we will make decisions. I'm asking you to give me all the papers on Bill 7157. Dear colleagues, I am introducing a draft law supplementing the Ukrainian Land Protection Act on the issuance and cancellation of special permits for land-cover removal and transfer. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Bebezenko Valerij Fedorovich. At the same time, I bring to your well-known, distinguished colleagues that the Chief Legal Authority has concluded that the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. Please, here's yours. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes that this bill be transposed into the next plenary week in order to bring it into line with Rule 116 of the Rules. Is there no objection? I would ask all committees and all committee heads to abide by the Rules, particularly in the part of article 116. Dear colleagues! I'm announcing a draft decree on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Registration number 5044. Reporter is the deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Zubov Valentin Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u16	Valentin Zubov, National Labour Union of Ukraine Dear colleagues! Pursuant to the commission of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Decision on the National Military Memorial Cemetery was prepared for consideration in the second reading by the Ukrainian National MP. In preparing the draft for the second reading, proposals were examined by the legal entities of the legislative initiative and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all, there were five suggestions that were included. A number of comments were made to the draft decree by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the fact that the Law on Funerals and Funeral Affairs already defined the powers of State authorities and local self-government authorities to create burial sites and regulated the order of departure of sectors for honorable burials, burial sites and the creation of burial places. Therefore, the creation of the National Military Memorial Cemetery can only be resolved by amending Ukraine’s relevant law. But taking into account the state-wide significance of the feat of the veterans of the Great National War, the internationalist soldiers, the military, as well as other persons who have committed heroic acts in the name of the Ukrainian people and have special merit before the country, the national deputies, the members of the committee support the idea of creating the National Military Memorial Cemetery and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decree. Please be supportive. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt a draft decision, along with the report by Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov, the Chief Legal Authority believes that this issue is already regulated by the relevant legislation, and therefore there is no need to adopt this document, it should be rejected. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u18	Thank you. The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, as the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and as head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, I would like to thank, firstly, the author of the draft decision, as well as the National Security and Defence Committee, for preparing this problem, it has to be decided. There are two of my suggestions, both of which are taken into account, I think that this document, even accepting it, will improve the situation, because there is a problem and it needs to be solved. Perhaps in another way, but by making a decision, we will reaffirm the need to solve the problem. Because it's about burying truly well-deserved people, it's about disabled people, war veterans, war veterans, military veterans, and it's a matter that needs to be resolved not only on Kiev scale, but on Ukraine's scale, by creating the appropriate cemetery in district centers and large cities. I mean, I'm offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u19	I bet. Mikhailo Chechetov. Dear colleagues! We're still the second reading there shouldn't be any here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I absolutely support Peter Stepanovich for the enormous patriotic burden of this document. It is on such documents, on such bills, on such decrees that true patriotism - love for his country, love for his country, love for his home, love for his people. We therefore propose to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt a draft decree on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Registration number 5044. [[10:22:58]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions, please, one minute. Region Party - 162, Block Timoshenko - 2, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 1, Communists - 24, Block of Lithuania - 20, non-fractional - 8. I bet the vote on the motion to return to the draft regulation [[Registration number 5044]] [[10:23:33]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water, Heating, and Water Supply Facilities. Registration number 2320. The rapporteur is Valerius Baranov, deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Regional Policy, please Valerius Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u22	Honourable MPs, a bill on specialities and leases and concessions for central water, heating and water supplies in municipal property were sent for re-reading on 9 September this year. During the drafting of the bill, proposals were made by the national deputy Carmazin, and it should be noted that the amendments were prepared for the text of a bill adopted as a basis, but not for the last edition that was considered at the meeting of the Supreme Council on 9 September, that is, out of 16 proposals, 9 had already been considered by the Committee and the Supreme Council. In accordance with article 124 of the Rules, 7 amendments are included in the new edition of the comparative table. In addition, with a view to taking into account the previous comments of the Chief Legal Authority, I was also amended as a national deputy. I want to explain to the last conclusion of the General Legal Office since September 30. The main point is the participation of the Ministry of Housing and Utilities in the preparation of competitive terms for rental and concession of relevant objects and the registration of their contracts. I will point out that this is the principle of money in this bill, which is essentially very important, because this condition will ensure the control and protection of the interests of the State and the local community, and the renter or concessionaire will be able to participate in programmes to support budgetary financing. Note that tariffs and prices are not valid; today the tariffs for central water services, heating and water supply are regulated by a state special authority. According to the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market, these functions are carried out by the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity until the Commission is established. The bill does not in any way change the procedure established by law, but merely specifies that the tenant or the concessionaire is fixing the tariff at the time the contract is made and the business plans are developed, and that the tariff review mechanism is defined, because their automatic adjustment is due to higher minimum wages, energy prices, etc. I will also point out that the bill requires technical and legal work, and I will explain that this refers to the replacement of the term “entity of entrepreneurial activity” to the term “hosting entity”, which can be corrected with the consent of the Supreme Council. On September 22, our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill as a law as a whole. It's from me. I call on the MPs to support this law, because it's the only way to bring investors into the water and heating industries, because the state will never be able and will never be able to provide such money to modernize these utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, now as amended. Carmazine - 2 Amendments. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, thank you to those who. For the part of the amendments that's taken into account, but for others, I'm going to stand up for them. Amendment 2. I propose that part of the first article 2 put forth in such an edition “the operation of this law extends to relationships related to leases and concessions only to those centralized water, heat and water supplies that are held in municipal property and can be privatized, including those of unfinished construction and well-preserved buildings, which can be added for the purpose of their use to provide services for centralized water and hot water supply, water supply and central heating.” The point is, if we don't point out that only objects that can be privatized include completely different mechanisms that we've already seen in practice today when they're privatized, but they didn't have the right to privatize.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee has considered the proposal by Yuri Anatoliyovich and disagrees with it, since this proposal will actually allow the privatisation of the objects involved, and the concession refers to a long-term lease with investment. That's why we didn't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u26	I'm betting on the vote on the amendment number Yuri Carmazin. [[10:29:15]] For-7. No correction supported. The next 5 amendments by Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u27	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to understand why we are adopting this law. If we adopt a law to simply rent or concession objects, then we can do as it is written here, that is. You can also pass it on to an entrepreneur. And I propose that the words “or the natural person of the entrepreneur” be excluded. For everyone, it must be obvious what must happen. The concessions or rentals of only powerful organizations are financially viable, not so that they can quickly declare that they have bankrupted or then put up with other problems. And that is what I ask to rule out “or an entrepreneur’s physical person”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee disagrees with this offer by Yuri Anatoliyovich, as this rule will allow an effective manager to be found in small settlements, since large concessionaires will never go to work in small settlements. And only natural persons who have licenses and everything else will be able to work there, and they will be able to operate effectively in villages, villages and small populated areas by these utilities. The committee therefore disagrees with this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u29	I'm betting on amendment number five, authoring Yuri Carmazin. [[10:31:15]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 7. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u30	Thank you, my opposition colleagues for their strong support. Thank you. Amendment No. 7 refers to changes to part three of Article 5. In principle, the point is, who are we doing this for? We work for people, not just to bring in an investor, as was stressed today. I want to emphasize that this is about centralized water, heating and water supply. I mean, there's nowhere to go. Therefore, to what it says: The conclusions need to be drawn by the Antimonopoly Committee, I would like to add: a special authorized central executive body in the field of consumer rights on the possibility of rent or concession, and the terms of the lease or concession contract, that this conclusion must be binding so that we can protect the rights of citizens and foresee how they may be violated. Thank you. Please hold while you're at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u31	The Committee does not support this amendment because we believe that everyone should work within the framework of existing legislation, which states that this is not provided for by this legislation. And the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy does not have to draw such conclusions, according to a committee approved by the President’s decree. If we do so, as Yuri Anatoliyevich said, we need to change their legislative base and introduce new mandates. Therefore, the committee does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u32	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 7 of Yuri Carmazin. [[10:33:29]] For-44 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. No objections? Dear colleagues! Your attention, please. I'm betting on voting a proposal, a proposal for a second-reading committee, and generally as a bill of the draft Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water, Heating and Water Management Objects, which are in municipal property. Please vote. [[10:34:44]] For 243 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! The National Deputy Turmanov proposed to include in the order of the day a bill relating to the repayment of the debt for electricity consumed, a coal that arose from coal and energy enterprises. If there's no objection, we'll put him on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Then it will be possible only at the evening session to consider it. Is there no objection? I'm voting on a proposal to include in the agenda a bill on inclusion in the agenda. Huh? The standard, yes, for inclusion in the agenda. It's consistent with the rules. Please, dear fellows. We put it in the agenda, we don't take it. And at the next meeting, we can consider. Especially given that all decisions of the committee are made. And the conclusion of scientific and scientific expertise and the main legal administration is. [[10:35:47]] For 246 Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! We just put it in the agenda, we don't look at it. Well, we can't change the order of the day all the time, well, Peter Stepanovich, a little later, a little later. Dear colleagues! A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Landing is being introduced. [[on the building of educational, cultural, medical, sports and health facilities]] Registration number 6023. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Valeriy Alexiyovich Baranov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Construction, Urbanization, Housing and Regional Policy, at its meeting on September 22, this year, considered a comparative table prepared for the second reading of the Law on Planning and Construction of Areas (for the construction of education and culture, physical culture and sports, medical and health assignments, adopted by the Supreme Council on 7 September of this year. The bill, and its essence, is to be freed from the commercial participation or contribution to the creation and development of the engineering and transport social infrastructure of the population of the contracting authorities, the building of education and culture, physical culture and sports, medical and health-care facilities. So that's the whole point of this. The committee rejected the proposals of counterpart Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich, who offered to release from the food market the customers of the construction of industrial objects if their elements of the engineering and transport infrastructure were to be provided to the customers or would be created at their expense. These proposals do not contain the need for legislative regulation. And the rejected proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovitch and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich for the release of contractors for the construction of educational and cultural buildings on the condition that these buildings are used on a non-profit basis, Karpuk suggested. And if services in these buildings are provided to all residents of this population, that's Karmazin's offer. The proposed proposals cannot be taken into account because they do not comply with the basic concept of the bill, which provides for the requirements of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine for the protection of all property rights and for the creation of equal conditions, both public and private builders, in the construction of these buildings, education and culture, physical culture, sports, medical and health assignments. Two comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. The first is the need to establish by law the basic criteria for the formation of a list of types of establishments that are exempt from market share. This observation is not valid because the special laws on higher education, on secondary education, on preschool education and others have settled this issue. And the second observation of the Legal Authority refers to the term of validity of the law. Since the construction of these objects will not be carried out in all locations, which will not significantly affect the income of local budgets, nor will it be possible to create a level playing field in the construction of educational and cultural buildings, the committee considers that the law cannot be delayed and that its standards should be applied accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u34	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u35	The following year, in 2011 private constructions will be an incentive for the construction of education and culture, physical education and health education and sports. The committee suggests that in the second reading and in general it adopt as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u36	Yeah, let's do some repairs. Dmitri Sandler insists on correction? No, it's not. Vladimir Karpuk. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, amendment number five, insists? Microphone, please, Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to note that this is an explanation that all property rights subjects are protected equally in this case cannot be taken into account because it is only for those who provide these services free of charge. That's why I'm proposing part 4 of Article 27. The Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas should be supplemented by paragraph 3 of the following content: “the building has established education and culture, physical culture and sports, medical and health services that are provided free of charge to all residents of the population”. [[Comma]] And there can be no equality between those who pay for it, of course. So I would ask that we think about fulfilling our constitutional position, which should be given free of charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u38	I've already mentioned the position of our committee. It may be controversial, but the committee believes that all forms of ownership are the same. And if we are to create such objects and make preferences, without exception, for the construction of these institutions that our society needs, we must approach them all equally. This is an opportunity to create and build such objects. This amendment is therefore not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u39	I'm betting on the 5th vote, Yuri Carmazin. [[10:42:30.]] For-28 No correction supported. Amendment 7, Yuri Carmazina. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you with the fact that you have absolutely no support for this amendment. We are doing everything to ensure that less and less services are provided free of charge, and the Constitution of Ukraine is being implemented to guarantee free of charge and education and culture and medicine. We'll get to the pen. Well, that's all right, then we'll find out. So far, I propose in Amendment 7, paragraphs two, three in the seventh part of Article 27. The Planning and Construction Act reads: “10 percent of the total cost of construction, reconstruction of the construction site for nonresident buildings and buildings, except for cultural and educational facilities, medical and health services that are paid or free of charge to all residents of the area. [[or]] 4% of the total cost of construction of the building is for residential buildings, buildings, cultural and educational facilities, medical and health purposes.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that construction has already taken place in Ukraine. Thus, the additional pressures that are offered will further destroy our construction industry. Therefore, the committee does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u43	I'll put to the vote the amendment to the seventh Yuri Carmazin. [[10:44:25]] For-21 Correction not supported. Correction of the eighth Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you all for your support. I propose after part fourteen that the article be completed with a new part of 15 such content: “In the event that cultural and educational institutions, medical and health services, which have been released in the order defined in part four of this article from the rations or contribution to the creation and development of the engineering and social infrastructure of the population begin to provide paid services with restrictions on access to these facilities to all residents of the population or to the payment of services with open access to all residents of the population, the owner of these facilities is obliged to pay the monthly payment to the relevant local budget for the creation and development of the engineering and social infrastructure of the populated area in the amount of the amount of compensation he has been paid in accordance with what is defined. determined in accordance with paragraph 2 or Part Three of this Article.’ You realize that the point is that if you have not met the requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u45	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, since you and I have already voted in favour of what is paid or free - it doesn't matter, this amendment. She's already losing her mind. That's why we don't support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u47	The eighth amendment of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[10:46:12]] For-21 No correction supported. The ninth amendment, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. The ninth amendment, paragraph 1 of Part One of the two closing positions is proposed in the following wording: “This law takes effect as of 1 January 2012, since according to article 27, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the laws of Ukraine which affect the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budgets should be officially published by 15 August of the year preceding the planned one. Otherwise, the rules of the relevant laws affecting the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budget shall not be applied before the start of the budget period following the planned period.” Because of this, my amendment is entirely based on the Budget Code and wants to bring the Supreme Council back to compliance with both the Constitution, my dear, my dear, my dear year, and the laws that we had adopted before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u49	The honourable MPs are probably from a legal point of view, Yuri Anatolyevich is right and right, but since we come out of what we need to do and do more quickly, and people are expecting us both to build, and some specific things, we can take a stand and do some kind of framework that is from us to paper. But work and people insist that we start building these objects tomorrow. That is why we ask you to support us and to reject this amendment by Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u50	Amendment 9 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[10:48:15.]] For-27 No correction supported. 11th Amendment, Karpuk doesn't insist. Sandler doesn't insist on the 12th. Yuri Carmazin, 13th Amendment, microphone. Who insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for having voted by the 21st opposition, thank you. It's a small amount of opposition, but that's normal. It's paradoxical that the Karmazin Constitution is right, by law, but we won't vote, because that's the point. This, which is of relevance, has led us to what is now in the state. Because of this, part three of the two Final Positions please put it in this version. The provisions of this law on the release of contractors from the construction of educational and cultural buildings, physical culture and sport, medical and health services, which are provided free of charge to all residents of this residential area from the fuel sector's participation in the creation and development of the engineering and social infrastructure of the population sites, are also extended to cases where local self-government authorities have decided to establish the construction of educational and cultural, physical and sports facilities for the construction of buildings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u52	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u53	The committee doesn't support this amendment, I've talked about it. That's why we turned her down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 13th amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[10:50:09]] For-33 The amendment is not accepted. Yeah, 14th Amendment. It's partially accounted for. There's no objection, Yuri Anatolyevich, to the 14th Amendment? None. Yes, please, Valery Alexiyovich, the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u55	The committee at its meeting considered the bill, 6023, and recommends that it be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories, registration number 6023. [[on the building of educational, cultural, medical and health facilities]] [[10:51:21]] For 294 The law is passed. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. [[on the regulation of the order of participation and the voting of representatives of the State in the meetings of the Economic Associations]] [[Registration number 4474]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Bill 4474 is very simple, very short is just two points, if you have noticed. And it regulates the situation where a representative of a State, as we have had in the past, is unfortunately voting on the part of the State, on the part of the shareholders or on the part of the founding members of the State, not on behalf of the State, but on behalf of individuals. In order not to allow this to happen, the Cabinet of Ministers proposed to introduce an additional rule in article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Management of Objects of State Property and to make it clear that such an authorised representative should only act on the basis of the credentials in which specific voting tasks should be specified. Such a mandate shall be vested either by the Housing Fund or by another authorized authority of the Kabmin. The draft law was amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! The amendments are practically all taken into account, one rejected amendment by the national deputy Shamanov. Are you insisting on this amendment? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the law in second reading as a whole as a law. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the document needs to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u59	If I may comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u60	Please refer to the comments of the General Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u61	With regard to the observations made by the Chief Legal Authority. With regard to the first observation, that the rule was already settled in the Civil Code, in the Law on Economic Associations, and in the Act on Shareholder Associations. Yes, that is the norm, however, but there is no emphasis on the fact that in the case in question there is a share of the State and that the word “State” does not exist at all, this time. Secondly, the Act on the administration of public property objects does not comply with the Act on Shareholders. And by this bill, we bring it into line and order, that's the first. And with regard to the second observation that the draft law contains internal contradictions, such as conflicting claims on the prohibition of abstaining while voting and voting in a manner determined by the Government. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the remark is written to a standard that is not in the bill at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u62	I would like to ask the secretariat to find out why there was such a misunderstanding. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. In this case, I'd like to. I have an amendment that actually applied to this, it's essentially taken into account. I want to say that the People's Deputy of Voropayev correctly gave the assessment absolutely, because the remark that was written on behalf of the Legal Authority does not apply to the text. And in this case, the reporter correctly said that it was a matter of protecting the interests of the State because it was a matter of trust in voting in the general congregations of a society that was obliged to give or to a fund, or another subject of the administration. Nothing of this is written anywhere in the law. That's why both oil and gas and all the other issues were voted on absolutely not in the interests of the state. As a result, this law is designed to preserve the interests of the State in the parts where it remains. It's extremely necessary, and it's just a waste of making the same conclusions that we've been given that conclusion. I support this case and I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Change the vote. Alexander Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just wanted to say in support of this law, it's very necessary. Now this system only works in the holding fund, where only by confidence a State representative has the right to vote. Other executive authorities do not have such an obligation, so there are things that are not invested in the interests of the State when a representative goes and votes for his own judgment. So I would like to support this bill, which is very much needed to protect the interests of the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u66	I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property objects. [[on the regulation of participation and the voting of representatives of the State in the meetings of the Economic Associations]] Registration number 4474. Please vote. [[10:57:13]] For 308. The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the State registration of commercial concession contracts]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's committee of legal policy, Elina Viktorovn Shishkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u67	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy considered the final text of the bill. The committee had only 5 rights of Ukrainian national deputies, all of them editorial and 4 of them were counted, only one of Oleg Zarubinsky's rights had been rejected. But on the basis of part one of article 116 of the Rules, since changes were made to an article that was not the subject of a bill adopted in the first reading. Therefore, in essence, the committee does not deny this amendment, and requests the Supreme Council to adopt this bill on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! The committee called, I'm sorry, Chief Legal Authority, there's no comment. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the State registration of commercial concession contracts]] Registration number 2334. Please vote. [[10:59:02]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 4, Block Timoshenko - 56, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 17, Communists - 16, Block of Lithuania - 20, non-fractional - 1. For the sake of legal clarity, I am voting for rereading, although it is not clear what to read. [[10:59:41]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Bill, registration number 2334, rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 242 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on representation by law]] Registration number 3317. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u69	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is a bill for which 295 votes were cast in the first reading and even proposals were made to vote in general from Yuri Anatoliyovich, because he has not raised any warnings in the session room. But then we agreed to take into account, when preparing for second reading, the editorial proposed by the Scientific and Expert Office, which said that this kind of unnecessary detail, or more accurately recalculating the detail in part one of the first article 242 “The Rights and Duties of Caregivers” would be unnecessary, because to some extent it duplicates the standards already in force in the Civil and Family Codes of Ukraine. And then we basically accepted this story, and given this, two suggestions came to the committee, two amendments, the authors Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and Yavoriwski Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, who actually represent the same standard as Science and Experimental Administration. So the committee unanimously supported the amendments, and this, for me personally, has improved the quality of the rule that is proposed for the second reading in the session room, so unanimously the committee's decision to adopt this law as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on this bill. I would like to vote on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending article 242 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on Representation abroad. [[Registration number 3317]] Please vote. [[11:02:08]] For-80 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 24, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 28, Communists – 26, “Litvina Block” – 0, non-fractional – 2. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. Well, I get it. So I'm not going to do the agitation right now. Obviously. [[11:02:39]] For-36 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities. [[on the activities of tissue banks and human cells]] [[Registration number 5196]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Yes, please. Yeah. Dear colleagues, the committee to adopt this bill in the second reading and generally as a law, and the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill is subject to rejection in connection with the adoption of draft Law 6696 and the whole as a law. Please, from the committee. Oh, from the Security Committee. Oh, the author, please, yes. Yuri Haydayav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u71	The great colleagues, indeed, were adopted yesterday in the first reading of the Presidential Law, where virtually all the positions that have been laid down in our bill have been taken into account. Therefore, the request is to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u72	But no, they wrote, "is subject to rejection in case another law is passed." He's already been admitted. Dear colleagues, we can do this. I'm going to put a vote on the motion for a motion for a bill if the Supreme Council supports it -- if it doesn't -- I'm going to put it to a second reading vote and as a whole as a law. It won't support -- it will also be removed. No objections? I am voting on the first motion to withdraw the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities. [[on the activities of tissue banks and human cells]] Registration number 5196. Please vote. [[11:04:59]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing the draft Act on Access to Public Information. [[resecond reading]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Shevchenko Andri Vitaliyovich. Please, it's Edward Pavlenko's microphone. Microphone, please. I'm sorry, Andrey Vitalyovich. Wait a minute. Edward Pavlenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u73	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I think it is necessary to report that the information provided by the head of the Shewchenk committee on the Committee's consideration of the Committee's second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information does not correspond to reality. As the subject of the legislative initiative, I made more than a dozen proposals to the bill. I have repeatedly asked to be informed about the committee meeting when this bill is being considered. On October 04, I was invited, but when I arrived, I was informed that there was no quorum, so there would be no committee meeting. The following day, however, a comparative table was distributed to the deputies. Most of my proposals have been rejected without any justification, i.e. the ordinary service floor, the misleading of Ukrainian national MPs and the violation of my rights as Ukrainian national deputy, the subject of the right to legislative initiative. In this regard, I urge you to postpone this bill to the sessions of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u74	Please let me finish the speech. Did you say everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u75	In order for me to be able to prove my position at the committee meeting, and the committee, as it is under the Rules of Procedure Act, has taken the appropriate decision. Also, I'd like you to conduct an investigation into the fact that the service floor is the head of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u76	Andrey Vitaliyovich, please note what you have to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u77	I'm going to say thank you very much to colleague Pavelek for the amendments to the bill, he's one of the most active deputies in that sense, part of his amendments are taken into account. In fact, the committee supported the bill, the table voted, a decision drawn up by the protocol of September 15, 2010. Of the 11 members of Committee 8, 8 voted in favour. The signatures of all these committee members are documents, so you can look at the position of each individual MP. And as for your amendments, I think there's going to be room time for each of them if you don't make a decision by a committee that's been approved by 8 votes to 11. I think we understand what this is really about, or the willingness to adopt this law today at last, this law for two and a half years here in the Supreme Council, or the unwillingness to vote for it. I'm willing to present it on behalf of the committee if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u78	Now, Irina Heratschenko demanded this. We, dear colleagues, will need to make decisions, not just go through the process. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I would like to support my colleague Andrew Shevchenk and say that it is quite obvious that this is not about the amendment. We have witnessed in this room the consideration of such, for example, a law that is important, irrefutable to the country, as the principles of foreign and domestic politics, where 2,000 amendments were made to the second reading. None of the authors of these amendments were invited to the committee headed by Mr. Omelchenko, and most of them accepted it with hammuse. And then let's look at the violation of the rights of all deputies. I also want to say that although I am in opposition, I am in favour of making our President of Ukraine, Mr. Yanukovic, appear worthy in the outer arena. This is Mr. Janukovic’s commitment, which his advisors have heard repeatedly. And last week, Ms. Hanna Herman at a very high-level conference of the international organisation of the OSCE, the Council of Europe said that this law would be passed, most would vote in full next week. Then let's do it. We will now, the opposition, support Yanukovich and vote in favour of this bill so that you don't feel ashamed in the international arena.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u80	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, we have, by law, not voted in the Basic Principles of Internal and Foreign Policy Act, you have opposed, declared that the course for European integration is non-alternative. By the way, you were against it. In this context, we will adapt all our legislation to European standards. You're against it. So we will step by step approach the day when we are fully integrated into European space. Economic legislation and humanitarian, including information policy issues, should therefore be adapted. And because there is a complete misunderstanding today, the document now states that the committee was at one time and actually held another, people were deprived of their argument to speak. And the document is very serious. Please put the bill to the vote so that we do not burn it so that we do not engage in purest propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u82	Yes, anyone else insists on the point of view? It doesn't, does it? Please, what's the committee's proposal? And I'm going to propose an approach so we don't burn the question. Please, Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u83	Colleagues! Well, I think we need to understand what's going on in the hall right now. And I think it's important for the country to understand that too. There is no man in the room who would question the need to adopt this bill. But every time we find a reason not to vote for him. I would now like to address the representatives of the parliamentary majority. And also to the representative of the President in Parliament, to the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers in Parliament. I think for most people it's a test for your ability to keep your word. Because there is a whole package of public obligations to vote in favour of this text this week. This commitment was made by the president, the deputy head of the Administration, of the BSS, who said publicly that he did not support the bill. So today it's very simple: either we tell these words beautifully to European representatives, or we vote in favour of this bill here in the session room. Now essentially. Why is this bill so important? He's changing the philosophy of the relationship between an official and a citizen. If a citizen or a journalist is to be chewed with his teeth into the official’s information, philosophy changes. It's very simple, all the information that an official owns is available to citizens, except in cases clearly defined by law, such as state secrets, intelligence, counter-intelligence, etc. You know there are 80 countries in the world that have a law on access to public information. There are three countries in the former Soviet Union that do not have such a law, namely, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. This law took several years of work. You know, he was registered in Parliament two and a half years ago. A year and a half ago, he was supported by all but factions. The head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, sent this bill to an expert in the Council of Europe, he came back with positive conclusions, and all the amendments are included in this edition. From our committee, I and the national deputy Vladimir Landik worked there, for which I am especially grateful to him. The Group of Deputies has been amended, Yuri Karmazin, Mr. Pavlenko is the most active member of the process. The working group considered all the proposals, starting with the Kharkiv Law Protection Group and the SBA and Minust. Imagine how difficult it was to find a compromise, consensus solution to take into account the interests of defenders and the Ukrainian Security Service. Believe me, right now in front of you, you have a compromising consensus text in your hands, which I think is best done by no one in this room. So I think the question is very simple. We must now make a choice between the interests of the citizen and the interests of the official. I think that the real power, the real politics, the real official has nothing to fear from transparency and there's nothing to be afraid of to have access to information from his citizens. On behalf of the committee, which, by eight votes out of eleven, supported that table before you, I urge you to make the Law on Access to Information today finally a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put two proposals to the vote: the first, of course, is the committee's proposal, and the second, Edward Pavlenko's proposal, our colleague, and other deputies. I will be the first to put to the vote, taking into account the importance and sensitivity of this issue and taking into account that there are a number of points that we need to live through in dignity today. But at the same time, I would like to say to you, Your Honor, that we don't have to show both the Security Service here and the President's Administration, we, the Supreme Council, have to make a decision. So I will put to the vote the first sentence of "signal voting" to determine how this law is treated. If the signal vote is given by 226 votes, we'll consider it essentially. No, I will put the second to the vote on the postponement of this issue in connection with the statement made by the Ukrainian National MP on the grounds that there was no committee meeting. Therefore, I am the first to put to the vote the proposal for a "signal vote" to demonstrate the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding acceptance. Regulation! concerning the adoption of this law. I have the right under the Rules to place a signal vote to see the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. Please. Regarding the consideration and adoption of this Law on Access to Public Information. [[Registration number 2763]] Please vote. [[11:15:28]] For-174 The decision is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, “Timoshenko Block” – 98, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 52, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20, non-fractional – 3. Second offer. I'm betting on the vote on moving the issue to November 2nd this year. On November 2nd of this year. Please vote. [[11:16:10]] For 251 Decision taken. But I would have asked my fellow colleagues not to let us deal with this issue again, and I would not personally lend my eyes to Sirk, talking to the representatives of the European structures, and explaining that we are tightening the wagon, and we will soon reach the finish line. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures concerning the annulment of the registration of the declaration of conformity. [[Registration number 6234]] The committee introduced a motion for a regulation of this content: “On the recognition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment” on the annulment of the declaration of conformity “with which it became invalid”. The committee's motivation is the following. With regard to the submission by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning the registration of a declaration of conformity, which coincides with the provisions of the above-mentioned document and has one purpose, the members of the Committee have decided to introduce a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recognition of the Supreme Council Regulation of 15 June 2010 on the adoption of a draft law amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Regulations and Procedures for the Evaluation of Conformity, on the non-registration of a declaration of conformity, which has become effective. [[No. 2323-6]] I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[11:18:21]] For 236 Decision taken. Honourable People's Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the procedure for the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] [[Registration number 7232]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:19:02]] For 208 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valerius Volodymyrovich Pisarenko. Correspondent is Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government Yuri Bogdanovic Klukkowski. Please report to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is proposing a bill concerning you. amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of National Deputies. [[on the procedure for the replacement of national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] This is not a novelty for this session hall. I want to remind you that this rule of law has worked before, at some point in time, the Supreme Council has repealed this rule. But today there is an urgent need to return to that standard when. and give the parties and constituencies the right to change the situation with that list of deputies, as they have not yet gained authority in the session room. That is, it is suggested that political parties be given the right to exclude from their lists those who have not become deputies but are on the list to date. Such a decision may be made in accordance with the party’s statute, the party’s assembly, or the party’s interparty assembly, which were part of the bloc on election day. The decision will be made by the Central Electoral Commission, or by a decision block. The adoption of this law will extend the rights of political parties and constituencies. Please consider this bill today. We tried not to change the laws that were in force, and we took the standard that worked before. It was practically applied earlier, and you remember that this was used in 2006-2007, this is a provision of the law. It's practically implemented, yesterday we had a discussion during a committee that was then brought to the Central Electoral Commission, where they also agreed on this rule of law in that way. And so I'm going to ask the session room today to vote on this bill not only in general. Not only in the first reading, but in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u86	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, from the committee, who's gonna report it? The committee considered this issue and decided to recommend a basis. Please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? National Deputy Cassianuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u87	Alexander Cassianuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the floor to Demchisten Vasil Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u88	Basil Demchischen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u89	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I will not stop at the mechanism that one of the authors of the bill has sounded. Yesterday, really, we were looking at a bill that was controversial, let's say a project. But I want to point out that the election process ends on the date of the election. Thus, the electorate may decide to exclude his candidate from the list only during the electoral process, until the election day, in view of what the proposed adoption of the law would be of no use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u90	Sergey Sobolev, BUT faction. Roman Zvaric will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the understandable logic of this law would be, if there was an imperative mandate, the right to exclude traitors from factions who have gone to the majority without the will of the people who are actually distorting the political map after millions of citizens have voted for one political power, and these traitors are running to other political powers. Then the logic of this legislative act would be understandable. And in conditions where, literally, for days, one of the leaders of the Party of Regions said that at the end of the day, we got rid of the MP slavery, when no one would move us now, and now comes out with the voices of the Regions, and I'm convinced that they're now voting for the slavery that he's just announced. In fact, they again want to be slaves of their party leaders, so that party leaders can determine who can and who cannot be chosen according to the list that was given to Ukrainian citizens. So you can imagine the situation: a list was printed. Everyone clearly understood that there was going to be a regional, other vote, and now it would be a right, once a year, two, three after the election, to throw out people who, according to that list, should become Ukrainian national deputies. In our faction, this is blasphemy, this is once again a distortion of the will of citizens, and this is one attempt. Since the Party of Regions is afraid not only of its deputies, but even of its candidates, there are those who are singing to them – Pisarenko and Pilppienko, who have submitted the bill. Accordingly, I think it distorts the political system, it distorts the electoral system in Ukraine, and this bill cannot be voted on. The key question. If this bill is voted on, in fact, it is introduced in Ukraine when there is no choice of citizens at all. I'm not anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u93	I'm not talking about legal technology anymore. When there was an election three years ago, the lists were formed, the voters were identified, and now, you see, party leaders will determine who to include and who to include.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u94	Roman Zvarić, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. The line is at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I will still be telling the truth. Because I can see that there is so much wickedness in this room that I just can't stand it anymore. In fact, we don't vote in favour of this bill in this case. We are actually voting for a permanent suspension of the powers of those national deputies who are combining their position with that of executive authorities. And I'll explain why. For several weeks now, the opposition has, in fact, demanded that this issue be raised regarding the early termination of the voting powers of fellow deputies. Why does it not? Because there are not entirely loyal people on the Party of the Regions, there are not entirely, let's say, certain people, and they certainly would not want to see them as Ukrainian national deputies. And so today we need to carry out this legal abracadabra, which is practically contrary to the Constitution, contrary to common sense, to carry out this law. I'm sure he'll be held, I'm sure the President will sign it immediately and he'll take effect. And after that, and just after this law has become effective, the question of the early termination of the powers of co-sponsor deputies will be considered. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking a different question. Let's now ask the question of dismissal, about the early termination of the powers of the co-conspirator deputies, and then let's just vote on this bill. It will be right, it will be just and it will be honest, and otherwise it will be evil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I see, I just realize that sometimes it's hard to bear, but we have to come to work and put up with it. And then when the question is being considered, including the release of your accomplices, and you came to work and immediately ask you all the questions. There's a schedule, let's go on schedule. Dear colleagues, calm down. But not for reasons, you have the right to speak, one minute, Jaroslav Suhi, then the non-fractional Taras Cranovil, and then from the committee we'll have a speech, and then we'll have a line after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! First, after the people’s election, there was a vote, no change to the lists could be made. The other one. And Ukraine’s political parties will never become adults unless they learn to take personal responsibility for their own lists. No other political party is doing this, just the political party that was then given a mandate of trust. Third. In Ukraine, 225 constituency constituencies, 225 national deputies from Ukraine will be here and will be in order in Ukraine. We need to get 50 by 50 right away. And the last thing I want to say. If the Law on Calling the National MP of Ukraine is properly written and developed, we will have no more trumpets, walks and crossings, everything will be clear and the same. So, for example, I don't think I can vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u98	Taras Cranville, it's Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! With regard to this bill, especially in the context of a rigid, proportional electoral system, I have a question: how much does it correspond to the basic article of the Constitution, which determines that the only source of all power in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people. The people have chosen the list. Perhaps we can claim that no one has read the list, no one knows the next five. But according to the Constitution, the people chose the list. He gave someone the right to represent someone immediately after being replaced in the power of one or another MPs. It seems to me that we need to carry out a verification of the Constitution of this law. And there's one last one. I think the Venice Commission here, as she once said, under an imperative mandate here, will do the same for us. And it's perfectly correct, because the parties themselves have to be responsible for the composition of those on the lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski of the Committee and then will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Yesterday the committee considered this bill, and notice, yesterday – 20 numbers. The bill is registered on the 19th, and the 21st we're already looking at in the session. I therefore conclude that it belongs to a group of bills that are of particular political importance and are being considered by the Supreme Council in contravention of the Rules. However, yesterday the committee made serious warnings about the contents of the bill. It reproduces the standard that was once in the Law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” and once fired in 2007, which led to the invalidity of the Supreme Council and the successive elections. It was then that this rule was ruled out so as not to repeat such a situation. It was questionable, from a legal point of view, when it was incorporated into the law, because it provided that the party could exclude candidates who were not elected. However, both colleagues Demcishen and many other colleagues who entered parliament, not in 2007, but later, have one. is written in the decision of the CEC that they were elected in 2007. Thus, every candidate on the list is elected in 2007, only not yet entering the hall or taking an oath. That's why we don't have this phrase "no chosen ones." In this regard, the committee under majority pressure on the committee agreed that the bill should be adopted, but only in the first reading. The drafters promised to consider whether it could be redrafted. I understand that most people in the room today agree with my position yesterday on the committee that this bill cannot be adopted. However, once again, the committee believes that the first reading can be accepted. I won't vote for him myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I think the Supreme Council is about to decide. But we obviously need respectable colleagues to start with the main -- what Taras Crnovil said, how much the electoral system corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine and human rights, and everything else is derivative. With this approach, when everything is given to the parties, it can be brought to a logical conclusion and given to the parties, and now it's all for redemption, because it's given to the parties. And then we have problems when people show themselves to non-loyal parties because of certain trials that come under some kind of political power. Since it has been included in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the agenda, the Committee and the Committee have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis, I put to the vote this proposal, namely: the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the procedure for the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] Registration number 7332. Please vote. [[11:33:38]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the right to reply is given to Philippeenko. Microphone, please. Just a minute. Now, lady. Well, Filipenko has already announced, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, using my right to repeat, I would like to point out to the distinguished Mr. Shadow Prime Minister that he has forgotten in 2007, when our formerly-born Yulia Timoshenko Block completely cleared the list of candidates for the National Deputies, which has kept Yushchenko adverting the debates, from the point of view of law, the elections that have led to his party with the minus rating “Reforms and Orders” to come to this Parliament, and now he has the right to be shadow prime minister. So you don't have to say the opposite things right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, we are under review. I'm sorry. Huh? What, what? There is an offer to accept in general. Is there a denial? I can only put to the vote one proposal -- the commission of the committee to prepare it for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure. May I, Yuri Bogdanovich? I can. I'll put this proposal to the vote. [[11:35:06]] For 234 Please provide information on the factions. Region Party - 164, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 3, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 21. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. [[on the subjectivity of social pay-related matters]] [[Registration numbers 7134, 7134-1, 7148]] I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[11:35:56]] For 210 Decision taken. Rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Schustik Olen Jurijivna, Filipenko Vladimir Pilipovich, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovitch, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Justice of the Committee on Justice, Mr. Dmitry Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Your opinion is proposed a bill aimed at settling the legislative gap and introducing the provisions of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and the Code of Administrative Justice in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is declared to be an unconstitutional transfer to civil jurisdiction of the consideration of social disputes. In accordance with the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, cases concerning social benefits will be dealt with by administrative courts only on January 01st of the following year. And the issue of dealing with such disputes since September 09 remains unresolved. There is nowhere for citizens to go today, in fact, to go to trial. But at the same time, there are more than 200,000 such cases in the courts of the first instance and the appeals. In the Supreme Court, over 19,000 cases. Since the bill has not been considered in time, I invite the administrative courts to start dealing with such cases as they relate to social payments from November 01, this year. The project was foreseen since October 01. Thus, our citizens have lost a month. In the Final and Transitional Situations, the project regulates the transfer of cases at different stages of the trial to the appropriate courts, which will avoid the return of complaints to citizens and the procedural confusion. The Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine propose to adopt this bill as a basis. Instead, the Committee on Justice, of course, proposes the adoption of the Ephraim project as a basis. Because of the extreme relevance of the bill, I would suggest today that we adopt this bill as a whole in order to give our citizens the right to charge actions, the inaction of the state authorities and to disprove their small costs in court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u107	Thank you. The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, is invited to your consideration by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the procedure for dealing with specific categories of cases]] The currentity of this bill is due to the fact that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine’s decision of 9 September of this year calls for the settlement of issues related to the transfer and further consideration of social pay cases that have been opened up in civil proceedings, as well as cases that have been transferred from administrative to general courts. In order to resolve the issues noted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Ukrainian law was proposed. [[Registration number 7134-1]] Compared with other bills aimed at settling disputes over social pay, we believe that the bill is more perfect and covers a broader range of practical issues related to the consideration of such disputes. Let's take the draft law for example. [[No.7134]] It contains internal contradictions, which in fact undermines the purpose of its adoption and lays the groundwork for further disputes over the jurisdiction of judges. Thus, the proposed draft law provides for the exclusion of paragraph 2 of paragraph 3.6 of section XI, paragraph 3, of the Final Positions Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. It is this sub-paragraph that provides for amendments to article 15 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code for the deletion of paragraph 2 of Part One, which states that civil litigation deals with social expenditure disputes. Thus, if Section XI, paragraph 3, of Subparagraph 2 of paragraph 3 of the Court of Justice Act, is excluded from the Court of Justice and the status of judges, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine will re-examine its rules on the examination of disputes over social payments in civil proceedings. The draft law introduced by me and the People's MP Pisarenko, in our view, is more perfect again, because it settles all questions about cases that have been opened and are before the courts of all institutions, as well as appeals, appeals and complaints that have been brought before the courts, but the conduct of which has not been revealed. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill 7,148 will be reported by Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Honorary colleagues know that on September 9, this year, the Constitutional Court passed a decision on the Constitutional application of the Supreme Court on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine, constitutionality, or provisions of the Law of Ukraine to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the subjectivity of social pay cases. This decision recognizes the unconstitutional status of Ukraine’s law as a number of them. That is why it is necessary to consider the issue of standardizing the operation of the relevant law. In view of the requirements of article 152 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the provisions of the above law have ceased to be valid on the day of the Constitutional Court’s decision on their unconstitutionality. Thus, there is a need really, I reiterate, to urgently regulate the relevant social relations of the Supreme Council. However, the Supreme Council has already amended the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice by adopting on 7 July of this year the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which provides for the transfer to the jurisdiction of administrative courts and the removal from civil jurisdiction of disputes for the purpose of calculating, recalculating, making, granting, receiving pension payments, and social benefits to insolvent citizens, etc. In view of what has been said, we consider the proposed amendments to our bill to paragraph 11 (1) of section 12 of the Final Provisions of the Judicial Status of Judges Act to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u111	With a view to bringing about the entry into force of changes to the Ukrainian PKK and the Code of Administrative Justice, take today to address this problem for our citizens who are awaiting a decision, a corresponding decision to Parliament. Therefore, I ask your support, Your Honor, our bill number 7148. This will help our fellow countrymen to resolve in court the very difficult problems associated with and the corresponding payouts for this category of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u112	Thank you, please, from the committee. Head of the Committee on Justice, Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u113	On 18 February 2010, Act No. 1691 amended legislation to allow the handling of disputes relating to social payments to date in civil proceedings. By decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 9 September 2010, the number 19P was declared unconstitutional. The Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges already provides for the return of cases of social benefits to the jurisdiction of administrative courts. However, in accordance with the final provisions of the law, these rules entered only on 1 January 2011, i.e. from the date of the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 2010 and until 1 January 2011, the question of the jurisdiction of social payments cases was out of the legal order. All the three bills that we are considering today are intended to expedite the referral of the relevant cases to administrative courts. However, Bill 7134, according to the Committee, is inadmissible, section one amends the final provisions of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, section two of the bill is intended to establish a procedure for their implementation, i.e. it will have to be guided by two regulations, which may lead to problems of application. Position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: The bill can be adopted on first reading as a basis for comments. Bill 7134-1 provides for a transfer whereby all cases before a court of first instance must be dealt with in reduced proceedings and in courts of appeal and cassation in writing. In addition to the question of the jurisdiction of welfare cases, the bill contains a number of amendments to article 183-2 of the CASU, which are not related to the problem and should be subject to the regulation of a separate law. For example, article 183 of the CASU, which regulates the reduced proceedings, is intended to be supplemented by a provision to send the respondent the recommended letter of delivery. This caused a negative reaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u114	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u115	in the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, as it will require additional financial costs. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council also does not support the bill. Bill 7148 was the best draft and was better suited to the purpose of the bill. Changes are only made to the final provisions of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which does not violate the integrity and consistency of the act itself, nor will it cause problems in the enforcement. The Institute of Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the adoption of the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council made several comments to the bill. The comments made to the bill will be taken into account in its preparation for second reading. The Justice Committee considered the bills at its meeting on 20 October 2010 and decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 7148 on first reading as a basis, Bills 7134 and 7134-1 to reject. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u116	Please sign up for the performance. Please, Shustik, get Cybenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u117	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko Street. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we listen to the observations of the Science and Technology Administration and today we adopt this bill as a whole in order to allow people to receive their payments by way of obtaining a court decision. I want to remind you that this is about the most vulnerable sections of the population -- people who often get a minimum pension, which today amounts to 723 bracelets, by the way, instead of the new President's. Let's take a look at the comments given by the Scientific and Expert Authority and adopt the bill today as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u118	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u119	Thank you. Communist faction Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Matthew Valentine Grigorovich, for passing such an extremely important and timely bill. This is about the fact that in Ukraine as a whole there is a fairly good legal framework in part of the social protection of veteranism, but the problem is that much of this legislative base is unfortunately not being implemented. If it had been implemented, if not by 100%, at least in most of it, the standard of living, the level of social protection for most veterans would have been slightly different. And Valentin Grigorovich put in a bill that sort of solves this issue. Since tens, hundreds of thousands of veterans are forced to go to the courts today -- that's true, and the disabled and participants in the battles of the Great Homeland War -- that's true of war children, that's true of many of these categories from other categories of veteranism. Today, then, the bill submitted by colleague Matthew deals with the issue of those lawsuits that, in connection with the decision - making process, have been somewhat dependent and are not being resolved today. So on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I would like to ask my fellow dignitaries to support this bill, first of all. And secondly, given the warnings, and the comments made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, on behalf of the faction, I propose to accept this document as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u120	Thank you, dear fellows, for discussing the issue, we have completed each and every one of you, and the reporter and speaker emphasize the need for adoption of this bill. So let's define. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 7134 amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges (as regards the subjectivity of social pay cases). The author of the shustik bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:57]] For-38 The bill is not supported. The following bill, an alternative, 7134-1, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges, is put to the vote, and the author is Filipenko. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:51:27]] For the four of us. Not supported. Bill 7,148, registration number, Efraemov authors, Matthew reported, and others are put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:51:56]] For 244 The bill is supported. Dear colleagues, I am addressing both you and the committee of profile. You see, from the findings of the Chief Science and Technology Administration, it turns out that other bills have the right thoughts. Therefore, when preparing for second reading, consider what is in the bill. Shorten the preparation period. Let's vote in favour of shortening the deadline for preparation for second reading, I think the committee of profile is also interested. Nothing. Please. [[11:52:42]] For 232 No, we're still doing a little bit of shortening, although it's not a plenary week, but we won't be able to take 14 days anymore. Thank you. Bill No. 7021 on amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act is under consideration. [[concerning the determination of the size of the licence assembly]] Governmental. Reported by the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Education, Plaxjuk Yuri Aleksandrovich. Shevchenko will report. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:53:34]] For a hundred and The decision is supported. Please have 2 minutes, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u121	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, draft Law amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting, prepared by the State Committee on Television and Broadcasting for the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers. The need for the adoption of this law is due to the change made to article 31 on June 25 of last year, thus cancelling the agreement on the method of accounting for the licensing congregation with the Ministry of Finance. [[on reducing the impact of the economic crisis on media activities]] Instead, the law prescribed a formula that determined the order of the licensing congregation. As a result, licenses for software providers, satellite language, cable, multi-channel language, conductive language were not taken into account, and the extension of licences, the redesign of licences, and this was also reflected in the financial component. Because if we take the last few years, the licensee's office will also have the 7th, 8th, 9th years -- 40, 50, below 60 million dollars, this year's license assembly will be 15 times smaller. The amendments to article 31 provide that if the law is adopted, the Cabinet of Ministers will continue to agree, to determine how the licence assembly will be counted for extension, and to redesign the software provider’s licenses. This bill is agreed upon and supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council with a profile and scientific expertise of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u122	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shevchenko Andri Vitaliovich is the committee. I'll have the microphone out of the room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u123	The committee considered the bill and decided to recommend that the first reading should be based on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u124	Yeah, we're signing up for the show. Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u125	Please give it to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u126	And he's unfactionable!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u127	And you can pass it on from any faction, Adam Ivanovich, even to MPs like me, non-factional. Dear colleagues, the idea that the government has proposed is correct, because in fact article 31 of the Television and Broadcasting Act, which I think, contrary to the general logic of the legislative process, has written down in detail the mathematical formula and all the nuances associated with how the licensing assembly is calculated have created many problems, because it was clear that it could not take account of certain circumstances in which the radiospace works. On the other hand, it has created additional motivations for possible corruption in decision-making, because there are nuances that allow for calculation, such as dividing broadcasters or broadcasters into theirs and strangers, so in general that this procedure should be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and the order of payment to determine the Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, it corresponds to the logic of the management model in the field of television and radio broadcasting. Instead, I think that in the discussion and in the direction of amendments between the first and the second readings, we should have taken into account one position that is contained in the current norm. This applied to aids in a licensed congregation for those providers who were obliged to provide services free of charge for socially vulnerable species. If we can't reduce the protection of the social rights of citizens under the Constitution, it looks like, for example, the Cabinet of Ministers might not see this coming, and so some category of people will lose this social benefit. So I think it might be possible to keep this line between first and second reading and find a formula that would oblige the Cabinet of Ministers in defining the rules, the methods of calculating the license assembly to take into account the possibility of benefits for those providers that protect socially vulnerable populations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, since the country fell asleep on September 29th in one country, and has actually woke up to the sounds of the “Lebed Lake” in the execution of the Yaltic dance and the decision of the Constitutional Court, when a constitutional coup was taken and we were returned in 1996 and they are trying to return in 1936, after which there is a sequential withdrawal of all the powers that still exist in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please monitor this very easily. Amendments to the Rules of Procedure Act - takes the right of the people - what? - to determine who the MPs will be. One. And so the cross is put on the stand in general as such. The other one. Amendments to 33 laws that seem to result from changes to the Government Act. All powers are removed from the Supreme Council, all the way to the Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u130	I'm sorry. Turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please speak on the subject of the bill. Tomorrow will be the “Victory” – you will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u131	Thank you, dear Adam Ivanovich. I'm asking you to give me back my time, and I'm asking you not to comment on my speech as prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u132	And I'm asking you to follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u133	I also speak with the Rules, which are broken, on this Rules. So, there's another new take of powers here and in this law in Parliament. And in this law it is proposed that the right to determine what is defined by law be transferred to the government. What, you can't pass and define here? Next. That remark that Mikola Tomenko made. He's absolutely right it doesn't just have to be counted, it has to be left behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u134	Finish, five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you don't have to be so petty. Because I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u136	Turn off the microphone. Have a seat, please. Question completed. I put to the vote a bill amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. Registration number 7021. Please vote. [[12:01:48]] For 242 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Maybe we'll take it right away? What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u137	There's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u138	In Carmazine, Carmazine has a denial, we won't take it right away. Tomenka? He agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, there's a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, we are considering the election and release of judges. I ask those who have a bearing on this to come to the session hall, the judges. Why aren't they in the session room? Do they not want us to consider them? [[B in m in s a l in]] There isn't! We need to be there in advance so we don't wait for them. Bill 7,271 on the election of judges is under consideration. Reports the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u141	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is drawn to the candidates for the post of judge, whose materials have been returned by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the issue of justice to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on 29 September this year and to the State Judicial Administration. At its meeting on 18 October 2010, the Commission discussed the matter and decided that since the new Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges established a procedure for the consideration of decisions of the Higher Qualifications Commission, and a review of decisions was not provided by law, we decided to make a submission of recommendations to the judges for their election as judges on an open-ended basis. According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the Higher Qualifications Commission, after carrying out a review, asks you to take a decision and to elect judges on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Finagueyev Valerija Alexandrovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u142	Project 7271. Please read on. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u143	The Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Boyko Svetlana Mikolayevna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Djakovitch Viktor Petrovich; The Industrial District Court of Dnipropetrovska Grishchenka Volodymira Mihajlovich; The Kirov District Court of Dnipropetrovska Leonova Andrija Anatoliyovich; Amurosius District Court of the Donetsk district of Fedchenka Volodymyr Mikolaiovich; The Kirov District Court of Donecka Dorosenko Victoria Grigorovna; The Provincial District Court of the Zakarpat district of Seshen Mikola Alexiyovich; The Energodar City Court of Zaporozhye district of Fedorenko Alexander Ivanovich; Brody County District Court of Lviv, Borodijchuk Olga Igorovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u144	By Borodychuk? Yeah, okay. Please move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u145	The Marchneguvat Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Mishchenka Hennady Viktorovich; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Polishchuk Irina Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u146	Okay. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u147	The Plain City Court, the Plain District of Panas Oksana Volodymyrna; Kupyan Regional Court of Kharkiv District of Skradjelova Victoria Volodymyrna The Novochakov City Court of the Hersonian District of Boyko Marina Eugenyevna; The right-wing district court of Chernigova Karaputo Lin Volodymyrna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev Kormushina Kiril Alexanderovich, Gumenjuk Alina Ivanovna Kharkiv County. Ruben?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u148	On Gumenjuk? Kolenchenka, after Humenjuk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u149	Kharkiv District Administrative Court Spiridonov Mikhail Alexanderovich, Ralchenk Igor Mikolaiovich; Herson County Administrative Court, Varnak Sergey Alexanderovich; The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Vrontsov Natalija Vladislavna; The Economic Court of the Donetsk Region of Morshagina, Natalia Stanislavna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Bill number 7271 received three comments. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Since we have the Constitution of article 89 in any form, 96 or 2004, you know that the constitutional coup d'état, which is not taken seriously. That's why I have a point. I'm going to give a little bit of an explanation for Dry in Finague, for Boyk, for Djakovitch, for Grychenko, for Leonov, for Fedchenk, for Doroschenk, for Shishen, for Fedorenko, for Jermakow, for Borodijchuk, for Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u152	Wait, wait, don't rush.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u153	By Polishchuk, by Jakimchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u154	Stop, turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatoliyovich, we've stopped, I've reached you in the name of Fedorenko. After Fedorenko, please slow down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u155	Jermakow, Borodiychuk, Mishchenko, Polishchuk, Jakimchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u156	Jakimczuk, I've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u157	Got it, got it, got it, got it, got it, got it,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u158	What court is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u159	Kajimchuk District Court of Ravenna Region
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u160	What's that? We don't have Jakimczuk in this decree, we don't have Jakimczuk in this decree. Yes, turn off the microphone, you'll figure it out, and then you'll talk. Dear colleagues, you can see why there are comments. Because the reporter said that the Higher Qualifying Commission in this regulation is proposing to our judgment today, to our consideration of those candidatures, more loyal to those judges who did not go through our profiling committee, when earlier, in accordance with the Judicial Act and the Status of the Judge and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the previous preparation of the matter was through the Justice Committee. Now the Justice Committee isn't doing this, so according to the law, it's being done by the High Qualification Commission of Judges, so it's recommending us. So there are two options: Your Honor, listen! Either we're after each of the candidates who are in this regulation, we're going to make a statement and we're going to define ourselves individually, or we're going to vote in general on the draft regulation that we've proposed, except for those candidates that were given by my colleague Koleshnenko. How are we going to proceed, Yuri Anatolyevich, on your point? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u161	Adam Ivanovich, let's do things legally. I don't do functions here, I don't know any of them in my eyes, and I don't have any relationship with them. But as the first deputy head of the Justice Committee, I answer thousands of letters from Ukrainian citizens who address their problems. We then direct these references to the appropriate institutions. There are representatives of the High Council of Justice, we're directing them there, we're directing them to the Council of Judges. I have to ask that question today. If I don't say it, they'll say I'm not interested in saying it. I trust my people, the citizens of Ukraine, and they believe me. So I am obliged, Adam Ivanovich, to say that there are observations on these figures and I am willing to tell them what the point is. Then take it. You see, the committee put them all down and didn't put them off, they sent them away.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u162	Finish it, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u163	I'm done. And now they're taking, and where there are serious things, serious problems, or where the introduction of the Higher Council of Justice has begun, they're all presented to each other now before the election. Let's think about what the Supreme Council of Ukraine does in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u164	Finish up. Yuri Anatolyovich, please. Let's go as you say. What comments regarding the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of the province of Finaguieva Valerija Alexandrovich? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u165	The Supreme Council of Justice is the application for the release of this judge. One. It was delayed because there were objections, documents returned. Besides, there was a letter from the head of Rabbit's Pension Fund about accounting, and it's extremely rare that even the head of the Pension Fund has turned out to be something like this, like, a complaint about a violation of legislation. That's why I'm leading you to your reputation and let's ask the High Council of Justice how it looked at that submission. I led you to your reputation. I repeat. I've never seen this person, of course I couldn't have any personal relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u166	Yes, please, who's with the High Council of Justice? Please, Izvitova.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! The Supreme Council of Justice did not file for acquittal for violating the oath of Judge Finaguieva. Any complaints and suggestions that are before the High Council of Justice regarding the judges who are currently in this room are no obstacle to the question of the appointment of these judges. Then, when the time comes when these questions will be put on the agenda of the High Council of Justice, we will make appropriate recommendations that will be considered, including by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, there are no objections to the appointment of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have once again made sure that something was wrong with you. But it is written in the law, so we will act according to the law. Because we can assign a judge now, and in two or three months we'll be freed, because there'll be another, so to speak, institution talking about another. But the law is the law. Then I vote for the prize. I bet on the vote that the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in the region of Finagueyev Valerija Alexandrovich will be elected on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:46:25]] For 276 Decision taken. Please note Boyko Svetlana Mikolayovni. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. I'm very sorry that you didn't give me the last time you spoke to the deputy head of the High Council of Justice, because on September 8, it was the head of the High Council of Justice that denied Mr. Finagueve's election. That's what I'm trying to prove for the stenographer, just to be clear. And that's what he told you, I told you. As for Judge Boyko Svetlana Mikolayevna, there are documents. It was also September 8th that the Head of the Supreme Council of Wheeler’s Justice denied it. One. The other one. The committee had citizens' complaints about the wrong actions of the judge. And the papers went back to the Higher Qualifications Commission. It's an extremely rare case when we did that. But we had these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u170	Thank you. Rope microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u171	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Anatolyovich, you're going to read the problems, and I'm going to take them and deal with them. For example, regarding Judge Boyko. It's very simple. In Lviv, Boyko Svetlana Mikhailovna works in one court and Boyko Svetlana Mikolayovna in another. And they work together in appeals courts. When the computer presented documents to us, the committee, the Supreme Council of Justice, made a mistake, wrote the wrong judge. I took care of it, I wrote a letter to the Head of the High Council of Justice. He checked, he said there was no problem with it, they just wrote the wrong judge, because it sounds like Boyko S.M. And this S.M., and this S.M. There's no problem. The answer came to the committee that there is no complaint on it, no problem on this court, just Boyko Svetlani, which we are currently considering. Again, it should not be said that she had been brought before the committee, since the committee had no complaints against the judge who had been closed, who had not been closed. So this is how they deal with the problem. I think the same judges we read are the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u172	Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u173	And I also want to say, Your Honor Yuri Anatoliyevich, that I have such data that the committee gave its recommendation on 28 April 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u174	I see. The computer can also be wrong. Then let us vote in favour of the election of the Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Boyko Svetlana Mikolayovna. [[12:49:20]] For 260 Decision taken. Please give it to Viktor Petrovich. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to inform you that the Justice Committee has decided to return these documents. This decision was made by the entire committee. You know there's no advantage, there's not even a third of the opposition on this committee. This was the case with the abuse that took place before the headship of the Lviv district’s administration of justice, and therefore we did not consider it necessary to recommend. That's what I want to say to you. She is a citizen of Jurchenk. According to the previous judge, a citizen of Osovsky, among other things. It's me before we have the apparatus to fix these references, and they're also completely fixed. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u176	Please, what will the reporter say? Igor Leonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u177	I mean, I've told you from the beginning that we've studied all the materials that came into the committee's qualifications. That's what I can say. On June 25, 2009, the Senior Qualifications Committee of the last cadence made recommendations. On July 3, the materials were transferred to the Supreme Administrative Court, and on December 7, 2009, the materials were transferred to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've looked at the materials, the characteristics are positive. We haven't had any complaints from the committee about any of Viktor Petrovich's wrong actions. There's absolutely nothing I can say about anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u178	I understand the situation. I put to the vote the election of the judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Djakovitch Viktor Petrovich. Please be supportive. [[12:52:01]] For 246 Decision taken. Please, Grishenko Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u179	George Carmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. Judge Grishenko Volodymir Mihajlovich. The committee's warnings and the committee's decisions were all returned because of the facts that the members of the committee had published. That's why. I don't know about this judge myself. I've never seen him before. That's why I'm bringing to you the opinion of the committee that I should return the documents to the High Qualifying Commission. If the Higher Qualifications Committee has considered them and has any idea, I think they'll tell us about it if they look at these observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u180	The Higher Qualifications Commission recommends that I choose, so I put to the vote to elect an untimely judge of the Industrial District Court of Dnipropetrovska Grishchenka Volodymyr Mihajlovich. [[12:53:22]] For 256 Decision taken. Please take Leon's Andrew Anatolyovich. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u181	George Carmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. After Leon’s Andrew Anatoliovich, the committee first received complaints, beginning with complaints. The complaints were from 2008, 9th and 10th years, which means there was a lot of complaints. That's why in May. On May 19, 2010, a letter was sent to the High Council of Justice to check whether there were grounds for breaking an oath. On September 8, this year, a decision was taken by the committee, the entire committee, to return to the Higher Qualifying Commission. I don't know if I've been tested for that decision today by the committee since September 8, 2010. At least this is not the case in the committee today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u182	The Higher Qualifying Commission recommends that the judge be elected on an uninterrupted basis by the Kirov District Court of Dnipropetrovska Leonova Andrija Anatoliyovich. [[And in the draft determinations it is]] Please vote. [[12:54:57]] For 241 Decision taken. On Fedchenk, please, Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u183	George Carmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. Honorary colleagues, according to the judge of the Amurosius District Court of the Donetsk district of Fedchenk, have repeatedly considered the matter. And there have been reports that the Ukrainian Security Service has committed a criminal offence. The deadline for this report is April 14, 2010. We are not informed about the criminal case, the final review by the Security Service. On September 8, 2010, the committee decided to return the documents to the Higher Qualifications Commission and asked about information on a criminal case violated by the Ukrainian Security Service. Obviously, without such answers, I do not take responsibility today. To the Ukrainian people, it is possible to appoint a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u184	Igor Leonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u185	I want to make a point, and that's what I've been saying that any information, even the facts that Yuri Anatoliyevich mentioned, has not come to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, there are two thoughts. There are two, more faithfully, positions. First position. Both the committee and the national deputies confirm that the criminal case against the court is instituted. And the second position of the Qualifying Commission is that they don't have any material on it. Don't scream, please. Fedchenko present? Please come to the microphone, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Is that the case or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u187	No, there isn't. The U.S. committee was misled by the fact that there was no case concerning me under article 364. And there was a refusal to violate the criminal case of the Amurosian District Attorney’s Office on May 14 of this year. In this connection, the district attorney’s office of the Donetsk district appealed to the Council of Judges in the Donetsk region to ask me if I should be brought to disciplinary responsibility. Decision of the Council of Judges of the Donetsk Region of July 15, 2010. Well, I will read out the second paragraph of the final part: “To limit myself to discussing a letter from the deputy prosecutor of the Donetsk district.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u188	Closer to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u189	“To limit yourself to discussing a letter from the Deputy Prosecutor of the Donetsk Region at the Council of Judges meeting and to indicate on the dock. Consider the initiation of the question of attracting Judge Fedchenk V.M. to disciplinary responsibility.” All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u190	Yes. But it's a decision. I see. I'm betting on the vote, choosing an untimely judge of the Amurosiev district court of the Donetsk district of Fedchenk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[12:58:26]] For 221 Show the factions, please. Region Party – 160, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Communists – 25, “Litvina Block” – 20, non-fractional – 14. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, dorošenko's microphone is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u191	George Carmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. Honorable National Deputies, Judge of the Kirov District Court of Donetsk Dorosenko Citizens were approached in connection with a gross violation of the law. The judge did not appear on the committee; the judge did not appear. On March 8, a decision was made to return the documents to the Higher Qualifying Commission for verification. Regarding the following, there, Sheshani, the judges, the committee postponed, more faithfully, returned the documents in connection with the judge’s beating the man. And that's why we wanted to know what's going on. 'Cause there's been a citizen's appeal. And this. It's not just a joke, I'll tell you the facts that are, were the subject of discussion and the decision of only the committee, just by following up on the committee's decision. I don't know why National Deputy Koleschenko of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u192	Thank you. Yes, please, then I would like to vote to elect the judge of the Kirov District Court of Donetsk untimely Dorosenko Victoria Grigorovna. Please vote. [[13:00:21]] For 242 Decision taken. Please come to the microphone of Sesheny Mikola Alexiyovich. Does it really fit the first deputy head of the committee of profile for what you've made a manhunt?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u193	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u194	Step closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u195	I can explain the following about the traffic. Yes, November 11, 2007, was the result of the accident. The woman suffered bodily harm and died in the city. Yet, I, Sessenja Mikola Alexiyovich, have no relation to the accident. I don't have an adventure, because there was another person driving, and I was a passenger. So, indeed, a criminal case was committed, but the result was that the criminal case was closed on June 27, 2008, in the absence of a driver, not me, as a criminal offence. On December 9, 2009, in connection with the coming of a complaint by the Kaskov People’s Deputy of the Zakarpatsky District, the decision was annulled and the materials were sent for further examination, the result of which was closed on July 14, 2010, in connection with the absence of drivers, and I am not paying attention to me as a component of the crime. So, honourable national MPs, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that I didn't have any relation to this traffic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u196	Thank you. Well, I think I got the information. I am voting for the election of the judge of the Perecen district court of the Zakarpat district of Seshen Mikola Alexiyovich. Please vote. [[13:02:18]] For the 250. Decision taken. Fedorenko, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u197	George Carmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. Honorable National Deputies, Judge Fedorenko, September 8th, report to you on the committee’s decision to return the documents to the High Qualifying Commission in connection with appeals and appeals, as a result of checks on the request of the National Deputy Kaltsev for unsatisfying work. And these materials were directed, also directed to the High Council of Justice. We have no answers from the High Council of Justice today on the committee. This morning I checked whether there were answers or not to be completely objective, open - minded. Because I've never seen this judge before, and I'd like to have people who are elected on an untimely basis, absolutely on constitutional grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u198	Thank you. I understand the situation. I'm betting on the election of the Chief Justice of the Energy City Court of Zaporozhye district of Fedorenka Aleksandra Ivanovich. Please vote. [[13:03:49]] For 259. Decision taken. Please use the Borodijchuk Koleschenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u199	Honorary colleagues, members of the High Council of Justice, are being tested for information provided in addressing Ukrainian national deputies Olijnik and Grač on the existence of grounds for the release of Borodichuk from office for breach of oath. In addition, the Office of the High Council of Justice of September is now addressing the National Deputy of Ukraine, Philipenka, as regards the actions of the judge of the Brodov District Court of the Lviv Region of Borodijchuk. I would like to find out what condition this examination is in, and is it not a warning to vote for this judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u200	Yes, the Council of Justice must answer, that's what I understand. But the High Council of Justice will tell you that they're still looking at it. Please, Lydia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u201	Once again, I would like to point out that it is the commission to carry out a test, the very proposal of a member of the High Council of Justice to release for breach of oaths, the complaints that come before the judges, is not a legitimate obstacle to the consideration of this issue by Parliament, that is, the question of the appointment of judges for office. Only in the case of the release of a court for a violation of an oath, which may take place after the appointment of office on an indefinite basis, will the Supreme Council of Ukraine take its decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u202	There's Olga Igorovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u203	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u204	Do you know what your comments are?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u205	Twice at a meeting of the Supreme Council's Committee on Justice, it sounded, "I have a comment", which was the first time that Mr. Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich spoke. After that he had no comments to me at the next meeting, Filipenko Volodymyr Filipovich said “I have a comment”, that was all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u206	What's the point, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u207	They did not express the substance of the remark.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u208	They didn't say. Maybe they didn't like your hair.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u209	Maybe I'll fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u210	I put to the vote the election of an untimely judge of the Brody District Court of the Lviv Region of Borodijchuk Olga Igorovna. Please vote. [[13:06:45]] For-300 Decision taken. Please, Mishchenko Hennady Viktorovich, Carmazin microphone. Is it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u211	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! As for Mishchenko, judge, the District Court of Bérezneguvat, Mikolai district. On 08.09.2010, the committee returned the documents to the Higher Qualifications Commission, according to the High Council of Justice. We are not informed until now by the Supreme Council of Justice. I would like to point out that this was not an initiative of the committee or of one of the members of the committee, it was an initiative of the head of the High Council of Justice. And in this case, we need to be informed about how to look at these materials. We make very responsible decisions, and I think they are now making political decisions, that is, having them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u212	Yuri Anatolyovich, I understand that this previous head was a remark. Activating, of course. A motion is made for the election to be made on an untimely basis by Judge Brezneguvat District Court of the Mikolai district of Mishchenka Hennady Viktorovich. Please vote. [[13:08:40]] For 269 Decision taken. By Polishchuk Irina Aleksandrovni. Carpenter, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u213	Honorary colleagues, a member of the High Council of Justice, at the request of the High Council of Justice, are being tested for the information provided on 14 June of this year regarding the existence of grounds for the dismissal of Judge Polychuk for violating his oath. In view of the delay in checking, it seems that someone is hiding something or pressure is being exerted on someone. So I would like the Justice Council to state the status of the test and let the judge say what the test is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u214	And Karmazin has a note. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u215	Carmazin has the opinion of a committee. I'm informing you that these were specific remarks made by the members of the High Council of Justice, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Kuzmin, who made a proposal for the release of Panas from the post of judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u216	I'm sorry, we're talking about Pollychuk Irina Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u217	Polish, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u218	Microphone, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u219	I read the wrong line, then according to Panas, Kuzmin, and here we have information that there have been observations by the High Council of Justice, including those of which the People's Deputy Koleznichenko has now spoken, regarding the existence of grounds for exemption for breach of oath. We have not yet received an answer as to whether there are grounds for exemption or not? I think Adam Ivanovich, you've just confused with us. The High Qualified Commission has changed leadership, and the Chief Justice Council has been working longer. That's why I'm talking about the thoughts of the acting leader, Mr. Kolesnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u220	I know who's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u221	You get it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u222	It's just that you might have thought before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u223	And this is where Samsin changed, and this is where the leadership changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u224	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u225	This also calls for a final consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u226	Thank you. Please approach the microphone, Polishman Irina Alexandrovna. What comments were made to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u227	I didn't hear any comments they didn't make. I feel that this is the result of a civil case review of the decision I adopted in December 2005. It's a case for a job renewal suit. The answer to the case was the Odessa National Law Academy, after the decision had been annulled 10 months later, I reinstated the person at work. And the decision was overturned and renewal refused. If I'm not mistaken in January 2007, a complaint came from the High Council of Justice. This was the head of the Legal Department, and she suggested that the High Council of Justice initiate questions about my dismissal for breaking an oath, as a result of a case. Civil affairs was required by the High Council of Justice there in 2007 and by June 2008. When I arrived at the Higher Qualifications Commission in December 2009, I personally saw in the count the entry against this complaint: “The foundation was not found.” When I arrived at the meeting of the Supreme Council Committee in June this year, the honourable Mr. Koleshnenko announced that there was again such a motion, a proposal for submission, for my dismissal as a result of this particular case. There's nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u228	Yes, of course. I am voting for the election of the Chief Justice of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Polishchuk Irina Alexandrovna. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:13:12]] For 310 Decision taken. By Panas, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u229	Yuri Carmazin. Panas, Raven City Court, Oksana Volodymyrna Kuzminim, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, is about to file an acquittal for a violation of an oath. I didn't know what the results were, the committee didn't know about it, but we were just running the animals through the committee and the High Council of Justice, and we see that there's a discrepancy. That's why I'm going to report to you, you know, that we're in breach of the procedure that used to be, when everything could be reconciled, now it's coming together in the hall. Of course it's not normal, Adam Ivanovich, I agree with you, but I must inform you that this is an initiative of the Attorney General's deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u230	Yes, please, Oksana Volodymyrna, what claims you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u231	In 2009, such a request was made. I was explaining. It applied to the fact that from February 2008 to August 2008, I served as a deputy judge of the court, that is, Kuzmin was filing, which applied to all the judges who were appointed to office by a decision of the Supreme Council of Judges of Ukraine. That's it. There were no further references.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u232	I see. I mean, you suffered for our mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u234	That the Supreme Council did not determine who was to be appointed, some did so on their own. I understand the situation. I put to the vote the election of an untimely judge of the Raven City Court of the Plain District of Panas Oksana Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[13:15:36]] For 299 Decision taken. Is there a note in Kradjelový, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u235	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u236	None. Boyko Marina Eugenena was gone. Lina's caraput was gone. Kiril's stern was gone. Spiridonov, Ralchenko, Varnak, Vorontsov and Morschagin. There were no comments on those nominations, were there? Then, please, those candidatures, except for. No, let's do this differently. Rubber. The remark was made by Humenjuk, Koleshnichenko. And we'll vote on the rest. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on September 9, 2008, Lapicsky, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, was addressed to the Council of Judges of Kiev regarding the judge of the Shevchenkov District Court. Neither the Council of Justice nor the committee were informed of the outcome. In addition, the Registry of the High Council of Justice gives a statement to Gaius, directed by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice concerning the judge of Shevchenkov’s District Court of Humenjuk. I would like to find out how the first complaint ended and what the situation with the complaint in the Justice Council is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u238	Yes, please, Alina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u239	Good afternoon. As far as I know, in the case where the complaint was written by Lapitsky, it was a member of the military, my decision gained legal force, it was confirmed by an appeal. In addition, in regard to the complaint against Gaius, the decision in this matter went through all three institutions. The legality of his decision was confirmed, and the Council of Justice found no basis for initiating the question of drawing me to disciplinary responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u240	This is how I vote to elect an untimely judge of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev, Humenjuk Alina Ivanovna. Please vote. [[13:17:50]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there were no comments to the nominees of Skradjelov, Boyko, Karaputa, Kormushina, Spiridonova, Ralchenka, Varnak, Vorontsov and Morscagina. I am putting all these candidates listed by me to the vote for election to the respective courts, which are listed in Order No. 7271. Please vote. [[13:18:35]] For 293 A decision has been made. And there was an offer, dear colleagues, to return to the vote on Fedchenk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich's candidacy. This is the Amurosius District Court of the Donetsk Region. Who's in favour of coming back to vote on this candidature, please vote. [[13:19:08]] For 247 We're back. I'm voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Amurosian District Court of the Donetsk district of Fedchenk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[13:19:34]] For 247 Decision taken. Thus, the honourable colleagues, as a result of our hard work, who were proposed in Decree 7271, received the support of the Supreme Council. Please sign the factions in a minute, because I can see what they're insisting on. Please, Matthew. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again we have found that, as Adam Ivanovich said at the very beginning of this consideration of the matter, the election of judges by the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot continue. It all turns out, I'd say so, maybe you'd agree, to the theater of absurdity, and more often to the theater of one actor. In adopting the Law “On the Courtship and Status of Judges”, we may have rushed and allowed a number of inadequacies, to be said, to say the least. There are many conversations and discussions in our society now around this. But right now we just have to clearly define the procedure for the election of judges by Parliament. So I think that Adam Ivanovich needs to be given a protocol commission, perhaps by the Committees on Rules and Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u242	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u243	on the preparation of appropriate proposals, whether these will be changes to the Rules and at the same time to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and so forth. But this must be done and done, in our view, urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u244	Anyone can do that. It is not necessary to give the commission to the committees, and each member of the national committee can make such an offer. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u245	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear to you that part two of article 89 of the Constitution, I quote: “The Committees of the Supreme Council are carrying out legislative work, preparing and pre-exposing issues relating to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, has found itself in a position of independence from the Law on the Status, the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. It's not the law under the Constitution, it's the Constitution under the law. That's why I'm calling on Ukrainian citizens to let them know that we don't have any opportunity to draw these thoughts here today. I fully agree with my colleague and Matthew's proposal, and with his colleague Martinyuk's suggestion that this should be standardized, but brought about. Either change the Constitution, or perhaps change the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u246	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u247	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, today our consideration has once again emphasized one truth that Parliament is always right. If he's wrong, he's correcting a mistake. One judge made a slight mistake, then thought and corrected the error. And they've got a man in office. As far as procedure is concerned, I think she's going to work. If there's any nuances, we're going to have to adjust a little bit, of course. And I suggest we move on to the next question. Because we have a big agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u248	Thank you. We'll keep going, we'll keep going a little bit easier, I think. Because we were really looking at the first decision that we were looking at, in every particular case, at the one that we were looking at. Next, I think, is less. So let's move on to the next decision. In the end, I'm going to give another opportunity to speak to those who want to. Please, 7271-1 Project Decision. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u249	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Under part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act. She also discussed all the appeals made by citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities of local self - government. And on the day of consideration, the question of recommending the appointment of a judge on an indefinite basis and asking to elect judges previously elected on an open-ended basis to serve as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Trakalo Valentina Volodymyrna; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Mikolayovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Haydar Andrija Volodymyrovich, Himon Mikola Mihajlovich, Hanov Raisa Fedorovna, Chebanov Alexander Olegovich, Chumak Sergey Yuriovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Chuck Evgen Vasilovich; Donetsk's Court of Appeal, Tupicky Alexander Mikolayovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Targonia Darya Alexandrovna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, I have not seen the warnings of the candidates. That's why I'm putting the vote to a full decision on the election of judges. Please vote. [[13:26:03]] For 279 Decision taken. The draft Order No. 7271-2 is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u251	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of the City of Valentina Sergiyevna, Peteshenko Marina Yuriyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Djaruk Mikhail Petrovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Zabotin Svetlana Volodymyrna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Parinov Andrija Borisovich; The Ravenszna Farm Court of Appeal by Demenchuk Yuri Grigorovich, Savchenka Grigory Ivanovich, Timoshenko Oleg Mihajlovich; The Kerchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Tsurtsev Vadim Mihajlovich; The Lenin District Court of Dnipropetrovska Scripnik Karine Olegovna; The Pavlovgrad Regional Court of Dnipropetrovsk District of Golovin Valerij Aleksandrovitch; The County City Court of the Donetsk Region of Mamedov Leila Murvatovna; The Kramator City Court of the Donetsk district of Haponov Andrija Viacheslavovich; The Shakhtar District Court of the Donetsk district of Dnistrian Olen Mikolayovna, Karabaz Natal Fedorovna; The Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Schlikova Sergia Petrovich; The Kirov District Court of Donetsk, Ivanov Aleksija Hennadyovich; The Illchid District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk district of Topchy Tetjan Viacheslavna; Kuibyshew district court of the district of Zaporozhye, Malovány Vitali Aleksandrovitch; Vasilkov City Court of Kiev Bilokon Olen Valerievna; Kyewo-Svetoshinsky District Court of Kiev Usatov Dmitry Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u252	By the Bilocon? Ustava? Right. Usama’s observation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u253	Obukhiv District Court of Kyiv District Kravchenk Maksim Volodymirovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u254	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u255	Squirovsky District Court of the Vigo region of Vigowiy Ivanovich; The Kirov District Court of Kirov City, John's Natalia Yuriyovna; The Red-Cuth district court of Kharkiv district of Vuk Ludmila Volodymyrna; The Citynian District Court of the district of Limansk, Volodymyrna; The Cosellet District Court of the Chernigiv District of Ivanjuk Taras Ivanovich; Novgorod-Several District Court of Chernigiv district of Baranek Sergey Mihajlovich; The District Court of Chernigiv County, Ilchenk Alexander Ivanovich; Talalaiiv District Court of Chernigiv County, Kosenko, Julius Leonidivna; Czernigów District Court of the region of Chitchenko Natalija Vitaliyevna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev Hanecko Olen Mikolayevna the Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the Court of Igorovich; The economic court of the Dnipropetrov district of Rudh Irina Anatoliyevna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u256	Yes, with the inclusion of the candidates for the office of the Kyiv-Svetoshin District Court of the Kyiv district of Usatov and the Obukhiv District Court of the Kyiv district of Kravchenk, I am putting the rest of the candidates to a vote. I would like to vote in favour of the entire Order 7271-2 on the election of judges. [[13:30:34]] For 290 Decision taken. Please, it's Koleschenka's bug on Usatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, on July 15, last year, Malinovsky and others were addressed to the Council of Judges of the Kyiv Region regarding Judge Kyivo-Svetoshinin of the Kyiv District Court of Usatov. The committee was not informed of the results of the proceedings, the Higher Council of Justice has not been informed. Question: Who controls the outcome of this complaint, where is it? And the question to the judge is, what was the test about?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u258	Yes, please, Dmitri Dmitrovitch, what was the test about? Come closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u259	The test was carried out according to Malinovsky’s and others who were represented. She was a representative in the case. As for these materials, I was given an explanation. And as far as I know, it's been considered. There was no reason to be held accountable. But that's all I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u260	A higher council of justice can add something to this, Lydia Pavlovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u261	All complaints, considered and pending, were referred to the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. And for today, I can't tell you all the information in the head of the High Qualifying Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u262	Igor Leonovich, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u263	All of the complaints we've noted we've requested from the Council of Judges of Ukraine, they've been the subject of a hearing on the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine. The Council of Judges of Ukraine did not see any reason for bringing the judge into disciplinary action. The complaint was directed, in fact, to a judicial decision rendered by a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u264	Yes, it stands for a vote: to elect an untimely judge of the Kyiv-Svetoshin district of the Kyiv district of Usatov Dmitry Dmitrovic. Please vote. [[13:32:54]] For 281 Decision taken. And, please, Bondik, a note on Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u265	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the honourable Igor Leonovich, you know, a certain legislature, so when I go to the hall, I want to say that, personally, there is no relationship with Kowalczuk, I'm sorry, with Kravchenk Maxim Vladimirovich, no interest, i.e. the defendant, the defendant, I didn't have. But there was a collective appeal by the people of Bezradichi village. And the head of the village council gave me, as a deputy, an address. As a member of the High Council of Justice, I directed him to Igor Leonovich at the last meeting, he promised to take care of himself. But in violation of article 19 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, within a ten - day period, I received an answer to inform the community of the village. And the point was, there was a raiding decision about the land, that is, this judge, well, as I see from the story of the address, made two opposite decisions. Thank you, please don't support this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u266	Well, this is the village of Bezredichi, how can we not support it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, Igor Leonovich, nothing? There were no such references in the Higher Qualifying Commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u267	That was not the case. We have considered this appeal, and it also refers to decisions in a case brought by a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u268	So, Maxim Volodymyrovich, did you make two different decisions yourself, or was it an appeal? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u270	Please. Closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u271	I'm telling you that I have, in fact, been looking at three cases that are mentioned in the address of residents of the village of Stari Bezradich. In one case, I was given a decision, it remained in effect by a court of appeal, and for the time being, a cassation complaint, as far as I know, has not been filed. On the second issue, a resolution was made on the suspension of the case, and the case is still pending. The decision to stop the conduct was also left by the court of appeal. In the third case, mentioned in the complaint, there was also an approval to stop the conduct of a case that had not been sued and entered into force. And I point out to you that stopping the conduct of this case was, including, for the appeal of the old-fashioned village council itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u272	Yes, there are clear explanations. I propose the election of an indefinite judge of the District Court of Kiev, Kravchenk Maksim Volodymirovic. Please vote. [[13:35:46]] For 255 Decision taken. Yes, order 7271-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u273	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article, I introduce the application of the Higher Qualifications Commission and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Sliva Yuri Mikhailovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u274	Yes, go on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u275	Wynnick's Administrative Court of Appeal Drachuk Tetyana Alexandrovna; Kyiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Griban Inna Alexandrovna, Bespalova Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u276	Yes, there is in Bespalova.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u277	Lviv's Administrative Appeal Court of Svetsky Viktor Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u278	And there's a remark in Svetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u279	Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Zivov Larissa Eugenyevna; Sevastopol’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Ziccurenko Anton Sergiyovich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, I am voting on draft decree number 7271-3 on the adoption of it in general with the exception of surnames: plums, Bezpalog, Sietecko. Please be supportive. [[13:37:29]] For-286 Decision taken. Please, it's Christmas Eve's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u281	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee’s material was that Sliva Yuri Mikhajlovich had taken the hospital, but he was on his way to Turkey and was resting. After that, he received a salary. This, in my opinion, is not just a disciplinary violation, and this may even involve a criminal case. I have a question for Yuri Mikhailovich. Was that true? If so, what draw was applied to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u282	Yuri Mikhailovich, please explain. Just closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u283	Last year my wife underwent a major operation and won a free trip to Turkey two months later. It was a free trip. I actually drove with her to Turkey for five days. After that, there were tests of the year. Both the prosecutor's office and all the law enforcement agencies have decided to refuse a criminal offence for the absence of any crime and for the commission of a crime. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u284	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Yuri Mikhailovich, there's no criminal case, that's understandable. Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u285	Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u286	Did you have discipline for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u287	I'm not attracted, I'm not disturbed, I don't know, I don't know. I was explaining, but that there was a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u288	Yuri Mikhailovich, and a specific question. Is it true that while you were away from work for five days?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u289	Yes, that's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u290	That's true. I am voting on the proposal to elect the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of Sliva Jurija Mihajlovich. [[13:39:43]] For 228 Probably for your honest answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u292	Please, Bespalov Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues! Don't get excited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u293	Dear colleagues! A member of the High Council of Justice is being tested for the information contained in Roseman’s statement that there are grounds for exemption for violating Judge Bespalov’s oath. At the same time, members of the High Council of Justice are being tested for information from members of the High Council of Justice of Portnov and Kuzmin regarding the existence of grounds for the dismissal of Judge Bespalog for violating his oath. I have a question to the High Council of Justice and to the judge, what is the matter with the test, and in what condition is the test under way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u294	Alexander Aleksandrovitch, please come closer to the microphone and explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u295	Deputies! Indeed, such a request was made and the case was taken into consideration for Roseman’s suit, and the decision gained legal force by passing all the courts, that is, the Court of Appeal of Kiev and the Supreme Court. As to the appeal, I can say that in the reference given in principle to the ground of an appeal, he repeats this over the course of two years. As for the vetting of the High Council of Justice, I know that it had been held before, and I was explaining the reasons for the attraction not found.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u296	Right. I would like to vote on an untimely basis as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of Bespalo Aleksandar Aleksandrovitch. Please vote. [[13:41:28]] For 274 The decision is supported. And in Sietzecki, please, Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u297	Dear colleagues! The Registry of the High Council of Justice refers to the People's Deputy Pisarenko of July 12 and 28, regarding the actions of Judge Hmelnick District Court in the case of the DPA in Volinsk district to the entrepreneur Slobodan for fines. A question to the Justice Council and to the judge: What is the point of this review, what are the complaints?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u298	Yes, Victor Valentinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u299	I've been looking at three cases for the State Tax Inspectorate of Hmielnické and Volinsky and Volinsky State Tax Inspectorate. Two lawsuits were satisfied because they were justified, and the third complaint against the individual was totally unfounded, so I refused the suit. The case is now before the Court of Appeal. All three cases were related to each other, they related to the gaming business, and in two cases with the private company Europe Plus, I was able to collect 5 million 40,000 fines, confiscated by these slot machines. And the third case also applied to the same private enterprise, but somehow a tax collector indicated the individual of Slobodan, who had no reason to be satisfied with his claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u300	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know the attitude of the Supreme Council, ours with you, to the gaming business. So I'm voting to elect an untimely judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of St. Victor Valentinovich. Please vote. [[13:43:27]] For 278 Decision taken. Please, draft Decree 7271-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u301	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article, part of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of a Supreme Qualificational Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters. I would like to assure you that the Higher Qualifications Committee has considered these candidates very carefully and asks them to be elected on an untimely basis: Wilguszynski Mikhail Josephovich, Hvozdik Pavel Alexanderovich, Potter Vitali Petrovich, Gregory Irina Viktorovna, Derbentsev Tetjan Pilipovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u302	Excuse me, are they here?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u303	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u304	Come on up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u305	Djemina Olga Alexandrovna, Eugraf's Elisabeth Pavlovna, Elena Janna Mikolayovna, Life's Gennadija Alexiovich, Kwasnevska Natala Dmitrovna, Kuznietsova Viktora Olexievich, Litvinova Alexandra Mikolaiovich, Martinyuk Volodymira Ivanovich, Marchuk Natalija Olegovna, Orlov Svetlana Alexandrovna, I go Milo Fedorovich, Puzirevski Eugena Borisovich, Sahna Romana Ivanovich, Tehlova Irina Georgieva, Tkakouka Oleg Stepanovich, Chujko Olenu Georgievna, Sweden Valerija Anatoliovich, Sibko Ludmila Volodyrovina, Štlana Pavlovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u306	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question is clear. These judges have already passed through the Supreme Council. But in connection with the creation of a new court, we have a need for you and the need to practically reassert them into positions of another court. That's why I'm putting to the vote a bill number 7271-4 on the election of judges. Please be supportive. [[13:46:22]] For 296 Decision Adopted Project Rule 7272, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u307	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the fourth part of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 2 of the third section of the HS Transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges raises the question of the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mr. Moroz Andrijaovich, and Ms. Mikola Pavlovich, to the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters on their consent. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u308	Igor Leonovich, why did we break them, can you explain? Why are they not in general determination? Of course, another procedure. I'm putting to the vote Order number 7272 on the election of judges, please support. [[13:47:38]] For 292 Decision taken. 7273 Order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u309	It's all ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u310	Are you all right? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u311	Thank you so much for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, the speeches will be, when we finish the question, we will complete the question. Let us welcome those judges who have received the support of the Supreme Council as a result of our long - term work today. [[Applause]] Let's say hello to our colleague Fesenk that he has the opportunity to carry out all of his actions as Head of Court, because today we have strengthened him by the judges. [[Applause]] And let's move on to the question of the release of judges. The word has a substitute for the Head of the High Council of Justice, Izboit’s Lydia Pavlovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u313	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Higher Council of Justice submits an application for the release of Shevchenko Tetjana Valentinovna as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with her resignation. I am further informed that the judge finds her true will. There is no adverse influence or coercion when making a decision on exemption. Please support our submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u314	Questions. Well, please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u315	Lydia Paulna, please tell me how much I recall, has asked us not to consider her application for certain circumstances the previous time. And the chairman told us that she would be informed of the circumstances from which she had turned. Can you tell me what the reason was?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u316	I can't provide explanations and information on this, because the High Council of Justice has not received such information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u317	Dear colleagues. No, chairman, this time I was in charge, and I remember that there were a few last names with what came up. One or two of them even happened. One? Yeah? Well, now you see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u318	We didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u319	What's more, the draft regulation is already in place, that's why. Yes, I'm putting to the vote ruling number 7273 on the release of Judge Shevchenko Tetjana Valentinovna from the post of Judge of the Supreme Court. Please vote. [[13:50:57]] For 227 Decision taken. 7273-1, please, Lydia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u320	The Supreme Council of Justice has filed a motion to support the Supreme Council for the release of Judges Voronko Irina Anatoliyovna, the Dnipropetrovsk District Court of Dnipropetrovska. Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District and Polyvod Stepan Volodymyrovic – Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol in connection with the indictment of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u321	I'll bet you a vote in number 7273-1 on the release of the judges. Please vote. [[13:51:58]] For 268. It's been decided. Please, 7273-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u322	On 20 September 2010, the Supreme Council of Justice of the Dnipropetrov District of Appeal, following the recommendation of the General Court of Justice of the Dnipropetrov District of 11 March 2010 on section 5 of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 105 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 27, 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Kibal Yuri Georgievovich from the post of judge of the Juryev District Court of the Dnipropetrov Region for the violation of the oath. The background for the submission. Judge Kibalny has not been in the workplace since December 15, this year, nor has he done justice in violation of his duties and oath to the judge. On July 10, 2008, the judge was charged with committing the crime envisaged in part three of article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. By order of the Zaporozhye Court of Appeal, on April 08, 2009, the judge was ordered to investigate the case, and the proceedings were suspended until the defendant was found. As for today’s meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Justice, a telegram was sent to the Supreme Council for its consideration of the matter. I got a telegram from Kibalny's mother, but she refused to sign it. Please support the motion to release the judge for breach of oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u323	Yes, dear fellows, there are three other names. Are we going to vote individually, or are we all going to vote? Turn around? Let's go then, please, about the liberation of the Cybal. Please vote. [[13:54:26]] For 269 Decision taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u324	On 21 June 2010, the Supreme Council of Justice, after considering the proposal of a member of the Higher Council of Justice of Kudravtsev of 15 November 2006, following the relevant rules of law and the Constitution, decided to release the Wooden Helen of Alexandrovna from office of Judge of the Artemov City Court of the Donetsk Region for violating an oath. The background for the submission. Unregistered in the Artemis District Court and falsified on behalf of the residents of Artemis, forging trial documents, Judge Derevlov decided a number of illegal decisions on the right to use housing. The actions of the judges led to illegal removal from the housing fund of the Artemian Lands of Housing and damage to the community. As for the presence of the judge at the sitting. The telegram is given to the secretary of the Resetnik who works in this court. We ask for support in the application of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u325	Please, I'll bet you a vote. Questions? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u326	Yuri Carmazin. Tell me, please, what you're saying is clearly what you're saying, it's not an exemption from the judge's office, it's a trial, you know, forging documents, official official crimes. Please keep us informed. And I have a request: inform us, the national MPs, as the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office is doing in this case, or the criminal cases that have been committed in this case. Or we've got some kind of specific law that we're all looking at and sounding like such horrible things as counterfeiting. I was in Artemis a week ago, and I heard there were judges making serious problems. The same is true in other cities. So I would like to ask you, Lydia Pauline, Your Honor, we very much respect you, and also inform you about the qualifications of these actions. Other than that, you're just asking questions about your release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u327	For the time being, the question of the release of Judge Artemis of the Donetsk District District Court of Wooden Helena of Alexandria is being raised. Please vote. The answer will be given. We are now discussing the issue of dismissal, not a criminal case. [[13:57:25]] For 263 They'll give it to you in the end. Yes, please, next name.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u328	The Supreme Council of Justice on June 21, 2008, after considering a proposal made by a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Kuzmin Renata Raveliyovich, dated April 8, 2008, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we are asking to support. With regard to the release of Judge Muchakov of the Zacarpathian District District of Zaborowski Viktor Stepanovich for violating his oath. The background for the submission. The judge intervened in the internal organizational activities of the Open Stock Exchange “Nicopolian Ferrosphrodite Plant”. I blocked the holding of stockholders’ meetings. In fact, the VAT “Nicopolian Ferrospoline Plant”, including the general VAT shareholders’ meetings “Nicopolski ferospolyta” and the shareholders of this association and their representatives, all natural persons and legal persons, were banned before the decision of the court. So there is a breach of an oath on the part of this judge. At the same time, there is information from the Justice Committee that the judge was unable to report to the Supreme Council on the matter, as the judge is on leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u329	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Put to the vote, put to the vote. You can, you can, you can. Sure. A motion for discharge is put to the vote for a judge of the Mukatov District Court of Zacarpatské district of Zaborovské Viktor Stepanović. Please vote. [[13:59:37]] For 265 Decision taken. Please, Lydia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u330	On June 21, 2010, after considering a proposal made by a member of the High Council of Justice, the Supreme Council decided to release her for violating her oath to the judge of the court of the Poltava district of Korshenka, Yuri Alexanderovich. Grounds for submission: The judge intervened in the enforcement of the customs authorities by disposing of them in a judicial decision of the possibility to exercise control over the correctness of the determination of the customs value of the goods; established a duty-free clearance regime for the goods for a particular undertaking; obliged the energy regional customs office to carry out the customs treatment of oil and petroleum products which are moved through customs control to the address of the undertaking by pipeline and rail without paying the charges and without submitting the corresponding payment orders. From the Justice Committee, there is information that the report of today’s meeting of the Supreme Council was received by the Registrar of a judicial session, not by a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u331	I'm voting on the proposal to release the judge. Judge, please, the microphone. Yuri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u332	The Honorable Supreme Council, as to the explanation of not essentially the charges, but as judges of the court of the Poltava district, I can explain the following. The point is that this submission was also considered by the Higher Council of Justice. To that end, the Section of the High Council of Justice disagreed, it was two years ago, to call me to account. After that, the High Council of Justice has already reported that they have taken decisions by the Supreme Council Committee on Justice. This issue was also resolved and decided in my presence that there was that there was a need for further examination of these materials and to assign them to be checked next time. And if, in fact, the violations that are being incriminated according to the decision of the Higher Council of Justice, I can say the following. That's the thing. In two words. The point is that, according to the Code of Procedure, as a judge, I applied article 35 of Part 4 to the effect that a decision from a civil case that has gained legal power does not have to be made again in the decision and so forth. So now the question is what? About what I applied as a judge of the Code of Conduct, this particular article. These benefits, which are defined both in the decision of the High Council of Justice and in other documents, and the records are determined in 2004 according to the decision of the Kremenchuk Auto-Cremenchuk District Court in accordance with the ruling of this court, and so these decisions are not overturned, they are active and they have been applied to me as. Well, you could say that. Fact. So for this time and the decision on the case that I've taken, which I'm incriminating, let's say, making the wrong decision, it was supported by the Kharkiv Court of Appeal, and only after the broadcasts and so on. Former Prime Minister Timoshenko was later dismissed by the Supreme Administrative Court. But once again, if these decisions of the Kremenchuk Auto-manage Board are over, we will, as explained earlier, be overturned. review the matter under the newly discovered circumstances. But for today, seven years. [[of 2004]] 6 years, 6.5 years, these decisions are effective because they're not cancelled. I mean, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u333	Yeah, that's a clear explanation. No questions to the judge? Is it? Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u334	Dear colleagues, this is not the first time we have encountered in this session hall the facts of the interference of an independent branch of power with the activities of the executive branch. Ladies and gentlemen, look what this is about! You have unjustifiably applied the provisions of the law and freed the ceilings from paying the tax on added value, excise duty, import duty, and so on, imports of oil and petroleum products. Well, what are you talking about? What “Autozadski”, which “Cremenczuk”? You just intervened in the process of taking out the taxes that you're living on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u335	Can I give you an explanation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u336	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u337	As a judge standing next to you, I would like to quote: “By the decision of the Kremenczuk Auto-Mansion Board of the City of Kremenczuka since 19.012004.” [[I won't comment.]] And by this decision -- not by the court of the Poltava region, but by this decision, the district court -- applied to a designated enterprise and its subsidiaries within 10 years of the investor's request to state guarantees for the protection of foreign investment in the event of a change in legislation. So that's the decision, that's the decision, not what Poltava County Economic Court took. Cancel that decision - let's review the new circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u338	Please, Karmazin. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u339	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? It's about what there was that there was a decision that still exists today, the Kremenchuk Auto-Cremenchuk Auto-Clause Court, which, if you think about it, was stopped by the Constitution, everything was stopped, and it went unilaterally. Well, it's already been done! We've already exposed such thousands of decisions to such woeful judges. Now this judge, under that ruling, without thinking about the rule of the Constitution, of the rule of law, thinks that the rule of law is, and the judicial decision of the Cremenchuk Auto-Cremenchuk Auto-Clean Court is, after all, a judicial decision. Oh, no! I wanted to hear from you on the committee that you realized that you're hurting this state, that you're making kids hungry in children's homes, that you don't pay their pension. You haven't realized that since today! That's why I'm offering to fire you. And to warn everyone: and those who made that decision at the Cremenchuk Auto-Cremenchuk Court, think of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u340	I'll put it to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u341	Last one, last one. I don't really want to sound, but that's the way my kids are throwing at me, well, it's holy, I'm not arguing. I've issued you with a court-appointed ruling on this, on the same case, on the same case, so to speak, from. I won't say when. The Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal of the Court of Appeal in these cases, you can see for yourself: an energy regional customs office, that's one of the facts, the Cremencucci United D.I.A., the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kremenczuka, the State Tax Inspectorate, so on, they dropped appeals in general. And you're accusing me of doing something wrong, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u342	Actually, your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u343	Actually, your colleagues, the question that we're currently having a discussion about, we need to put our hands on our hearts and say that something is also our fault. Because we did not have a clear solution to some of these questions, which are sometimes used to make similar decisions. I am voting on the proposal to release the judge of the court of the Poltava district of Korshenk Yuri Alexandrovich. [[14:08:05]] For 226 Decision taken. By faction, please, Party of Regions – 157, Block of Timoshenko – zero, Our Ukraine – five, Communists – 25, Block of Lithuania – 20, non-fractional – 19. [[B in m in s a l in]] And, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we still have Order No. 727. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have the Bill of Order No. 7274 concerning the granting of arrest and arrest (in custody) to the judge of John’s District Court of Odessa. Who will report, Vasil Vasilovich? What situation is Vasil Vasilovich, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u344	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, well, there must be a general prosecutor here to support his application. There must be the chairman of the Justice Committee who has considered this issue. All I did was support the Attorney General as the head of the court. Let him come here and explain his application. I have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-21-m0.u345	Right. Dear colleagues, there is here in Vasil Vasilovich's words, otherwise it can't be, because he is the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, on the point that, indeed, the submission of the charge should be represented by the Attorney General. I don't know what reasons it has prevented Alexander Ivanovich from being present. I don't see it here. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, we won't vote. I don't see any problems here. Let's move to the next plenary session, when the Attorney-General's presentation is, in fact, about drawing on responsibility. And, fellow Members, we have a few minutes if you would be so kind as to accept with you the recommendations of Parliamentary hearings on the topic “The 2010-2020 Innovation Strategy for Ukraine in Globalisation Challenges”, registration number 5421. Please vote. This is a parliamentary hearing recommendation decree. [[14:10:47]] For 244 Thank you. And let's do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we're done! There's five minutes left. I went on for 15 minutes. There are five more minutes. What's more, it's a very interesting question: a draft decree marking the 140th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, a public figure in the forest of Ukraine. [[Larissa Petrovna Kosacz Flower]] The authors of the Martinyuk and Tomenko Bill Please support, 6714. Please vote. [[14:11:36]] For 274 Thank you. On this optimistic note, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council closed. We're meeting at 16 o'clock.
