ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u1	Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:00:33]] There are 419 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 208 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the conditions for the use of sites by public organizations of persons with disabilities, Bill No. 5120, is being complied with. The author of the bill is Komar Mikola Stepanovic. Please. Is it a reduced procedure? I'm voting on the proposal to hear the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:01:30.]] For a hundred and [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on the motion to return to the vote. [[16:02:01]] For 221 Yes, please report, Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! The need for adoption of the proposed bill is prompted by numerous calls from social organizations that have also come to the Supreme Council, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Issues and Agrarian Issues. The fact is that on January 1, 2002, the ground code 92 of the article allowed the public organizations of persons with disabilities to have the right to use the land on a permanent basis. Article 207 of the Code regulates the conditions for compensation for loss of agricultural and forestry production as a result of the removal of land. At the same time, on the basis of article 208 of the Code, citizens and natural persons are exempt from compensation for these losses if land is used to build a number of objects, including public health, culture, physical education, sports, and social security. Sadly, in the preparation of the codex, 208 articles did not include organizations with disabilities. The bill proposes to supplement article 208 of the Earth Code and to determine that only when land is used to build rehabilitation facilities, physical and sports facilities, and social security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u3	Yes, are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the profile committee, he is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Bevanko Valeriy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u4	Thank you. Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee at its meeting on December 2, 2009, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 208 of the Land Code on the conditions for the use of sites by public organizations of persons with disabilities, introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Komar, Pshonka. [[Registration number 5120]] It notes this: The bill proposes the release of public organizations of disabled Ukrainians, their enterprises, institutions and organizations from the loss of agricultural and forestry production in the event of land use for rehabilitation, physical and sports facilities, social security, and the corresponding changes to article 208 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The adoption of the law will strengthen the social protection of persons with functional limitations and social organizations of persons with disabilities by costing the construction of such facilities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine support the bill. In view of the above, the Committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 208 of the Ukrainian Code of Land on the conditions for the use of sites by public organizations of persons with disabilities, registration number 5120, to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u5	Yes, please have a question. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u6	But not abbreviated, not abbreviated. Yes, please, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u7	Thank you. Attention, colleague. Please tell me. I understand that we are now very noble in considering the bill. Is there an analysis on your committee? An analysis of the following character, for example, how much land has been allocated in each region, and how has it been used? We don't know that sometimes, I don't want to offend anyone, but that's what, you know, grief, misery and evenings people use those who want to avoid taxes, you want to, you know, be protected somehow about these miserable people -- the disabled. So I'd like to know if you have that kind of analysis or not. You don't have any signals that would tell us that before the second reading, we should anticipate measures that would prevent the use of disabled people for useful purposes?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u8	Yeah, thanks for asking. I can tell you that we don't have this analysis, but we do. The committee was not asked about the conditions under which the land would not be used. Not according to destination. But I agree with you that before the second reading, we need to anticipate measures so that we don't have the ability of enterprises to apply this bill for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u9	Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Kirovograd. First of all, honourable national deputies, I would like to welcome you to the Governor's Hall of the Ternopil region of Jaroslav Suhogo. He just showed up here among us, and I welcome him here. And my question is, in fact, to what Mrs. Catherine has asked, and judging from everything, there is obviously some doubt in many people. So, indeed, the very idea of this bill is very noble. These are, indeed, people who are deprived of some of the possibilities that other, healthy people are deprived of. And, of course, we need to think about them, so that they don't be taxed with these terrible taxes that are now literally destroying our economy and public organizations. For example, the Writer’s Association pays 28,000 dollars a month for the land. Where are they taking them? That's why I'm so doubtful whether it's going to be after this good purpose or if it doesn't come out of there, you know, it's going to be a hell of a lot of stuff. What warnings there are from this, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u11	I can say that there are no safeguards against fraud and other actions in the state at all. But in this bill, in our second reading, we're going to try to predict these fuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u12	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u13	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I looked closely at the expert opinions, and no one saw what the MPs who were asking you were now noticing. I also have a question that also applies to the same thing, because we are doing an extremely wide benefit, we have social organizations of people with disabilities, as well as their enterprises or associations, institutions, organizations, and then the use of land for the construction of rehabilitation facilities, physical and social facilities. That is, such a latitude that a loving enterprise can build, rent, and use the benefits. Obviously it should be written: “with a purpose, for use by persons with disabilities” or “mostly the number of persons with disabilities”. This is to be predicted so that there is no abuse, so I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u14	I can fully agree with Mr. Karmazin, Yuri Anatoliyevich is right about the need for such a warning to be given in the second reading. We'll see it the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u15	Thank you, sit down, please. Do you want to talk about it? Talked about it? Then, dear fellows, let's face it, I'm completely supportive, practically everyone who's asked the question of the point is, wait, Valérie, wait. The idea was that there would be no good intentions under the mark of the disabled to do what they would draw from the budget. So, with Jury Karmazin’s rightful remark, I would ask the committee to prepare for the second reading, to take into account that only the public organizations of disabled persons for their own needs. Not at all under the brand of disabled, sports and so wide a concept that you want to build and how you want to use it. With this in mind, I am voting for the support of Bill 5120, the draft law amending article 208 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[on the conditions for the use of sites by public organizations of persons with disabilities]] Please vote. [[16:12:29]] For 310 Decision taken. Once again, I ask the committee to consider our wishes and recommendations when preparing for the second reading. A draft Law on the introduction of a state monopoly on lottery activity is under consideration. Bill number 5417. Reporter: Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. None. Bill number 5418. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium for the Issue and Conduct of the Lottery. Reporter: Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Nor is it. True, there are letters from the committee about the removal of the bill. And we have another bill, number 5417-1, the draft Law on State regulation of lottery activity in Ukraine. Corge Victor Petrovich reports. Please, Victor Petrovich. Maybe it's a reduced procedure, like Victor Petrovich. I am voting on the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[16:14:21]] For 209 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u16	Honorary leadership of the Supreme Council, honourable colleagues, comparing the main economic indicators in the development of European lottery markets with the similar figures of Ukraine, it can be noted that the imbalance between GDP and the distribution of lotteries exceeds 50 times. It also confirms that the main factor contributing to the development of the lottery market is the way it is organized, not the level of well-being of the population. After all, the biggest lottery income is given to countries with a model of the state monopoly for the release and conduct of the lottery. The draft Law on State regulation of lottery activities in Ukraine has been developed using the foreign experience of regulation and regulation in the field of lottery business, taking into account the specific economic relations that have taken place today in the lottery market in Ukraine. We suggest that we view lottery activity as a monopoly on the State's implementation of the lottery, the content of which is the ban on the introduction and conduct of all lotteries in Ukraine, except for state-owned lottery operators who have been granted the right to do so. I would also like to point out that the project for the first time introduces the understanding of lottery activity as a social activity aimed at meeting the needs of society, including to finance the social sphere of the State in the directions defined by this law and the laws of Ukraine on the State budget for each year for 25 per cent of the income remaining after the formation of the prize fund. It should be noted that the funds received from the state lottery will be spent on the treatment of children, on the development of the Olympic movement, on the capital construction of sports buildings, on the preparations for Euro -2012. The presentation of specific targeted budget programmes to the Ministry of Finance is made by a collegiate advisory body, the lottery board. The bill also contains financial and economic, organisational and other requirements for the lottery operator. This is the minimum size of the statutory capital, the minimum number of terminals, and the points.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u18	I'd like to point out that the scale of these operators' demands is very high to ensure that the players' guarantee is taken into account. I point out that the order of control is completely beyond the Ministry of Finance. The participation of children under the age of 18 is also prohibited, and the adoption of this project will help to improve the modern legal mechanisms in the lottery field. Given the ambiguity of thought, many discussions, I propose that we consider the constructive proposals that are there. Also, I point out that there is agreement with all the committees, there is the conclusion of the Ministry of Finance -- to take the basis for further work. I'd like to support you in your first reading and redraft this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u19	Thank you, Victor Petrovich, sit down, please. Yes, there's also a co-reporter from the committee, Jacenka. I see. Is there a need to discuss? Is it? You won't? Yes. Then please sign two in, two in, and no. Yes, please sign one. Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, really, if you listen to the goal of building a state monopoly on lottery activity in Ukraine and channeling these funds to social needs, including the Olympic movement of 60 percent, 30 percent for building buildings, 10 percent for treating children with cancer, it seems to bribe that it is a good thing. But if you look at the notion that it's a state monopoly and look at one of the authors who's known to be the creator of other monopolized structures with a hue that raises a lot of questions, it's clear why this state monopoly is made. So what the bill proposes is to create a lottery board that would be an advisory body at the Cabinet of Ministers, but its composition was determined by both the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. It is clear that for the lottery board in Ukraine, the composition of which is determined by the Ukrainian Parliament and the President of Ukraine, this is something above, some of the other central executive bodies. So there's a lot of other questions like this, and we still need to get this bill to work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u21	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the idea that the lottery should work for Ukrainian sport and physical culture is probably the first day of independence. And the tragedy is that we're all saying it has to be done, and no bill has been supported by any finance ministry, no government. Because it looks like it's better for the Ministry of Finance to build their own relationship with lottery players than to pass it on to power or the public. I have many warnings about this bill. But the idea that we need to preserve is whether we support the first or the second first reading is absolutely correct. You can’t put money into the budget from specialized, especially sports lotteries, and then ask an official to give money to develop physical culture, sports, health care, or anything else. The nature of the lottery is that if we allow this part of gambling to invest money, we should know clearly that we are compensating it exclusively for physical culture, health care, or culture, is an additional incentive. You can debate the lottery board. But it's obvious that it has to be not Minfin, but it has to be the advisory board, for example, of the most outstanding athletes, or the employees of the most prominent cultural actors, who would have to point out where we centralize them every year. We can't have a system today when the Soviet state once gave, let's say, you're a sports lot, you're something else. And today, for their own benefit, these lottery owners are doing this business -- it's a private business, it's only formally called a state. So I think that the idea of channelling money from lottery games to physical culture, sports, health and culture is right. On the other hand, we need to think institutionally about how to resolve it. So I would support the very idea, and let the authors continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u23	Thank you. Question completed. Be careful, Your Honor, I'll put it to the vote. I will put to the vote all three bills, all three bills. The draft Law on the introduction of a State monopoly on lottery activity is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5417]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:22:23]] For two. The law is rejected. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the granting of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5418]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:22:54]] For-0 Absolute 0's, the law's off. The adoption vote is based on the first reading of the draft Law on State regulation of lotteries in Ukraine. [[Registration number 5417-1]] [[16:23:26]] For-0 No support. It was suggested that this bill should be sent back for re-reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[16:23:49]] For 280 The bill is aimed at re-reading the first reading. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act is under consideration. [[Registration number 4593]] Author of the bill, Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk, and from the Committee of Perestenko to prepare. Will there be no objection to the reduced procedure? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:24:30.]] For the 250. Decision taken. Please, Eugene Ivanovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u24	Adam Ivanovich, I suggest you consider a reduced procedure. Right now, huh? Dear National Deputies! This bill has been registered for almost a year, and it has been written by a group of deputies, ranging from different factions, there is a special service that has been an expert on this bill, both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in agrarians, and in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, and in a number of others. What is the point of this bill? The point is that 90,000 tons of yachemymics of plant protection, herbicides, pesticides are being transported to Ukraine, and there is no proper control of these poisons in Ukraine. Especially in the market of trade, in the market of storage, and their use. We're practically out of data today, as well as what products after using these poisons there's a residue of harmful substances, both in food and in the plants themselves, and in seeds. For this very reason, two years ago the State Plant Protection Service made it a state service, the people there today are government officials, but the rights of these people to present claims are not enough. The bill therefore proposes to increase requirements and empower government officials working on plant protection. There's one small nuance in this bill, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u26	30 seconds. For two years, when they became civil servants, they now have the status of civil servant, but 172 men who, at the time that they worked for other civil servants, were counted and retired, are asked to take their law into account. To be recognized by government officials as well. if that's possible. But that's in the first reading. I propose to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u28	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 2 December 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Plant Protection, submitted on 19 October 2009 by the National Deputies of Ribuk, Jury, Kirilczuk, Kurpil. [[Registration number 4593]] The bill is designed to implement the provisions of the International Plant Protection Convention ratified by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 31 January 2006 on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention for the Protection of Plants and the Law of Ukraine on Pesticides and Agrochemicals. The bill expands the main tasks of State control and the mandate of the specialized executive authorities in the field of plant protection, refines terminology, and strengthens the responsibility for violations of legislation in the relevant sphere. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act. [[Registration number 4593]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u29	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Oh, no? Please sign up. Yes, please, Carmazine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u30	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the Association for Pure Agriculture and the Safe Environment, allow me to thank the authors of this law and Rijuk and Jury, Kirilczuk and Kurpil for taking this legislative initiative. Because it is extremely important that the present and ongoing state control of compliance with pesticide and agrochemical regulations, as well as the residual levels of pesticides, nitrates, and nitrates in agricultural products, and raw materials of plant origin, be carried out. I consider this to be an absolute positive addition to the current plant protection bill. And I also think it's positive, despite the fact that the science-expert administration thinks that the unwarranted administrative boards that are raised up by this law are increasing from 10 and 18 non-taxed minimum citizens' incomes to 50 and 90 non-taxable minimums. But when we think about how much a person's health costs, when we see that today, in pursuit of income, they go to what they're increasing chemicals by tens of times just to gain profit, and then we see doctors saving sick people, then we realize that such extremely serious fines are absolutely adequate because they're done in the countries of a civilized Europe that we want to enter and react to all the time. As a result, I believe that the changes envisaged in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences should be such as to be accepted in the first reading. [[This is article 42 prim, 83 prim, 188 with badge 12]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u31	Thank you. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I think it would be more accurate for the authors to call this bill, not about protecting plants, but about protecting Ukrainian citizens, that would probably be more accurate. Although I do understand that that name should be left behind. All the benefits of civilization that we have today, which we enjoy, are sure to carry a colossal chauffeur of dangers. We have the same thing with these chemicals, plant protection products, and so forth. Even today, we know that in the fields, somewhere near the village, there are these chambers of kolgospne, where there was an industry and all that sort of stuff, and after every rain, dirty soup comes out. And even today, they are often found in both our plants and our food, and so forth. Because of this, I absolutely share the concern of the authors, by the way, of the various factions: both the Party of Regions, and the BUTU, who decided to actually create this bill. In fact, I understand that it seems too hard for some people because it increases fines to 90 minimum wages, but I'm convinced that the problem is absolutely worth it. Of course, this bill doesn't guarantee us, it's not sterile, and it still leaves a loophole for abuse, because all of these. You probably don’t know that the same Saakashvili in Georgia canceled a completely sanepist station, realizing that they don’t beat the cockroaches as much as they first check and take bribes. Obviously, something like this can happen here. But it seems to me that the step that has been taken to ensure human life and human health is very normal. Because of this, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will unanimously support this bill, and we ask other colleagues to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u33	Yes, please, before the vote, I'd like to listen to the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. Who's there? Ivan Mikitovich Demczak, please, from the Ministry of APK.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u34	The Ministry of Agrarian Politics, honourable deputies, honourable heads, is asking for the support of the bill. It clarified and proposed changes based on the accession to the International Plant Protection Convention, the association with the Pesticides and Yachemymics Act. There is only one issue that has now arisen in the process of discussion, even though it has been adopted, article 11, the addition concerning the official who has been given the authority of the State inspectors, the experience of the public service has been taken into account since the adoption of the plant protection law. It's an issue. We're ready for him, if the MPs would listen and take him down, that's the question, and then we could take him up on the first reading. And for the second reading, if there's any other comments, we'll work them out. But most of the comments, except for the 11th article on the counting of the service since the adoption of the law, we agree to withdraw it. And we support the deputies in that regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u35	Right. Is there anyone from Minfin? Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, it is worth listening to the proposal made by the Deputy Minister. And if we take this proposal into account, I think we will vote on first reading. Let us therefore vote on the text of the law, taking into account the proposal made by the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection to both the author and the committee, be careful! – then I will put to a vote: on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Plant Protection of Ukraine, which removes the appendix to article 11, which states that officials who are given the powers of state plant protection inspectors are counted as of the date of entry into force of the Law on Plant Protection of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4593]] Chiefs of State Plant Protection Services of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the area is assigned to the post of Head of State Plant Protection Labs, in agreement with the main State Plant Protection Inspectorate. Except for that, because, in fact, we are, if we give the right to the day of acquisition of plant protection, we are. The law, it's coming out, it's going to have reverse action, because this law is going to work a long time ago -- and we're going to start counting it. And the second. I mean, with the exception of what I read, please vote. [[16:37:09]] For 353 The bill was adopted in the first reading with the deletion of amendments to article 11. Please, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u38	Adam Ivanovich, if we deleted this article, there are no comments to others, then the bill could be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u39	Unfortunately, there is a denial. Bill number 3670, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation, is under consideration. [[on the Protection of Consumer Rights]] There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please vote. The author does not object. He's even asking. [[16:38:10]] For 270. Decision taken. Please, the author of the Miroshnichenko Bill, Yuri Romanovich, from the subcommittee. from the committee to get Gayman ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u40	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. What is the point of this bill, 3670? In fact, it is called upon to harmonize the standards of two laws that regulate the same issue, namely the right of the consumer to exchange a non-food product of good quality. Our colleague in Paris had already touched on this problem, and his initiative had amended article 77 of the Civil Code, but not all the issues arising out of the problem had been settled in that bill. What is it? The point is that the Consumer Rights Act and the Civil Code explain differently both the reasons and the terms during which the person who bought the non-food goods of good quality wants to exchange them. If there's a law that says that he has 14 days from the moment he got the goods, then the day after the day he bought it. If it is one law that the seller has the right to set a longer term when the consumer can trade goods, there is no such standard in another law. This has led to some conflicts in the interpretation of these laws, and even in cases where citizens refer to the courts. One side of the dispute refers to the norm of one law, and the other refers to the norm of another law. Since we do not have the priorities of laws, laws, and codes of law, all of them have equal legal power, we face the problem of a conflict of laws that results in losses, including from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u42	This bill, it's simple, it's actually agreeing on these two norms, and the way that consumers' rights are more protected. And to my conviction, it can be voted on in general. That's why I'm asking you, my colleagues, to vote it both on the basis and on the whole, thank you. It's like the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u43	Thank you. From the committee head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u44	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 24 June 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on consumer rights introduced by Ukrainian National MP Miroshnichenko, register 3670. The main purpose of the bill is to strengthen consumer rights guarantees. The author is invited to amend part one of article 707 of the Ukrainian Civil Code and articles 9 and 23 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on consumer rights, introduced by the National MP of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine”, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Miroshnichenko, to be adopted as a basis. [[on the Protection of Consumer Rights]] So in the case of the foretold part of article 102 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, accept it as a whole. At the same time, I would like to inform you, Mr. President, that since the Committee's decision on its bill of 14 May 2010 the Ukrainian President has signed the Act amending article 707 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which has already been amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u46	in paragraph 2 of the second bill and the words “inappropriate” have already been replaced by the word “indemnity”. Therefore, our proposal is to adopt, on the basis and in general, only the first paragraph of the Bill on Amendments to Articles 9 and 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Consumer Rights. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u47	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Nobody insists? Then I put to the vote a proposal for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of Bill 3670. Draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Protection of Consumer Rights]] Please vote. [[16:44:26]] For 307 Decision taken. What do we do with acceptance as a whole? But there is. Yuri Romanovich, you have different readings, the committee suggests one thing, you're another, so why are we.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u48	Let me comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, why the committee has drawn attention to the fact that part of the vote is needed in general and part is not needed. The point is that the law that our colleague Parbius proposed, one word, has already made part of it, for it has already been considered a little earlier. Mine also takes into account this situation, and it also harmonizes the standards of the two laws. So it can be voted on as a whole, and it will not be a denial of what the representative of the profiling committee has been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u51	Please, Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u52	Ministry of Economics. It should be noted that following the introduction of this bill, which is under consideration today, the Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Law of May 14, amending article 707 of the Civil Code. [[2257]] This is the second part of this bill that partially eliminates disagreement. In view of the above, therefore, the bill must be drafted to take into account the changes made by the Supreme Council to article 707 of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u53	Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the Book of Responses and Suggestions]] [[Registration number 4120]] As reported by Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Olga Borisovna, we can do it in a reduced procedure. I am voting on the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. [[16:46:29]] For 252 Decision taken. Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u54	It would be nice if you gave that much for the bill as a whole. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the audience, the audience, the innovations I have the honour to present, they touch each and every one of you, not just those in this room, but everyone who lives in Ukraine, even temporarily. Because each of us is a consumer in a sense. And all of us are in virtually daily contact with the provision of services and the suffering of those who are in a bad mood, those who suffer material damage. If in Soviet times a book of responses and suggestions was a fairly effective and effective mechanism to defend the legitimate rights and interests of consumers, it has now become such a cluster and no more. This is explained by the fact that its status is minor, it's approved by a sub-legislative act, that is, by an instruction. In addition, fines for violating a book of responses and offers at retail businesses and restaurants are very, very low. Most consumers simply do not know how to use this book in practice. The bill proposed to you is aimed at solving the problems that have been solved. He foresees raising the status of the book of reactions and suggestions. To this end, the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act provides for the right of consumers to leave their complaint, offer, response or comment in a book of responses and suggestions that is to be made in a visible and accessible place. The company’s manager or his deputy is obliged to consider a weekly record of the book, take the necessary steps to remedy the shortcomings, violations, and what the applicant is required to report in writing within seven days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u56	the address specified by it. In addition, the amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations are intended to increase the lower limit of the administrative fine from 1 to 3 non-taxable minimum citizens. This will allow the creation of additional means to protect consumers with their legitimate rights and interests, as well as to encourage workers in the field of trade, public nutrition and services to provide more quality services, which is important, given that the annual increase in the number of tourists to Ukraine, and more so during the Euro-2012 period, will be significant. The Consumer Protection Centre will be able to use the information that will be provided to the consumer and also better protect the interests of citizens. The main scientific and expert management made minor remarks regarding the use of the term “orders for the implementation of commercial activities and the rights of commercial public service”, proposing that the term “trade rules” be replaced, but I did not invent the term, and I took it out of the instructions. In addition, the Administration believes that the bill requires more than a written form of communication. Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't just predict the written form of the message, then the book of complaints will remain just like a watershed book and we won't be able to use the answers to protect our rights in the future. The only thing I can agree with is that the bill is obsolete in terms of validity. I offered it to take effect on January 1, 2010, because of the 2009 Bill. In this case, of course, it is better to make the bill effective as of January 2011. The project was welcomed by the European Economic and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u57	Thank you! Olga Borisovno, come on, you've already taken two shifts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u58	Last sentence. The European Economic and Social Committee has made a satisfactory assessment, so that these innovations will also be approved by European legislation. Please support the bill, my request, as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u59	Please, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u60	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 24 June 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, introduced by Ukraine's national deputy Bodnar. [[on the Book of Responses and Suggestions]] The purpose of the bill is to increase the practical significance of the book of responses and suggestions for consumers in their defence of their legitimate rights and interests. Article 17 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act is proposed to supplement the part that provides for the duty to deal with complaints and consumer comments contained in the book of responses and offers within a seven-day term by the head of the business, or by his successor, with the necessary measures to remedy deficiencies and disruptions in the business and mandatory written reports to applicants within 7 days. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the results of the first reading of the bill should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine supports, but has made a number of observations regarding the terms of consideration by the head of the enterprise or his deputy, expressed by the consumer of comments or suggestions that do not comply with the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the Book of Responses and Suggestions]] [[tabled by the National Deputy of Ukraine Bodnar]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think I understand the proposal, let's thank the author that she cares about our rights, including because we are also consumers, and we will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, so that those observations and scientific expertise are included in the second reading. I'm voting on the adoption of a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[by number 4120]] [[on the Book of Responses and Suggestions]] Please vote. [[16:54:00]] For 317 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for a word of motive. I voted in favour of the project, although there is a huge danger. And I'm pleased that the Science and Technology Administration has seen a part of this danger. The danger is that, by changing the terms that we had previously defined in legislation and we had the notion of “trafficking rules” by smearing them into “the order of trading activities, commercial services”, we rule out the whole layer of other rules. That's the first one. So we're narrowing down responsibility, and we're worse off in that case, consumer rights, keep in mind. That's the first one. The other one. There's another problem. When we talk about the book of complaints, we also refer to an order from the Ministry of External Economic Relations and Trade in Ukraine. There's no such thing as a ministry anymore. We also need to predict what that book looks like, and so on. This should be done in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u63	The draft Act amending article 44 of the Ukrainian Act "On Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities" is under consideration. [[on the calculation of cultural, physical and health costs]] [[Registration number 4774]] Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Work of Har. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, I don't see a reporter. And he's from the committee. Let me inform you and maybe we'll figure it out. Now, the 44th article says that employers are obliged to account for the costs of primary professional organizations for cultural, physical and health work in terms of collective agreements and agreements, but not less than 0.3 per cent of the work fund, which pays for gross costs, and in the budget area, for the allocation of additional budgetary allocations. The drafter proposes that these words should be taken away from the bill: “additional allocations”, i.e. on the basis of budgetary allocations without “additional allocations”. Here's the one, so to speak, change and offer. If it wasn't for your objection, I'd vote for acceptance as a basis. Talk about it? Please note: two in favour, two in front. Please, Kirilenko, follow him Karmazin. Who? Yes, Paul’s or Jaborowski’s? Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u64	Clearly, the author of the bill is the head of the Federation of Trades and therefore he wants the official companies he controls to be supported at the expense of the state budget. What this law says is that budget institutions have to account for the cost to professional organizations of at least 0.3 percent of the Fund's salary at the expense of budget allocations. What are we doing back in Soviet times when the unions were partially held at the expense of the state budget? Why is this necessary? There is now legislation in force that regulates this issue. I don't think this bill can be supported in any way. What are the official trade unions that are part of the Federation of Trades? And we still have dozens of unions, so-called independents. Does this norm apply to them, or does it not? I don't think this law can be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u65	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Please give the word to a colleague of the faction Volodymyr Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u67	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u68	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. I would also like to confirm that the Federation of Trade Unions, who are the authors of the bill, who do not imagine that there are any other trade unions in this bill, and in other bills, at the expense of the budget, are trying to determine the activities of trade unions, the primary professional organizations. At the same time, there are a number of other independent professional organizations in Ukraine. How can you do that? How can we distribute these funds? What if we took some businesses into the Wages Fund? These are significant sums. And we know that the role of the trade unions used to be at the school of communism, now it's almost completely different from their role. And they don't play the primary role in protecting workers' rights. We see what a tremendous trauma, which the fatality of a traumatist today, just as this determination has been confirmed, is the great disability of retirement. These issues are not resolved by trade unions. And the money that. We know that it's not cultural education, it's not health work, it's not sports competitions, it's usually festivals, it's gatherings, it's meeting people who are comfortable with each other. So we think that the bill really needs to be treated with these requirements, and we think we need to send the yoga to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm only two moments away. First of all, it doesn't say which trades, so all registered, so I wouldn't say that it only applies to the unions that Hara heads. Because it doesn't say what trades, it doesn't say all the trade unions, it says everybody who's officially registered. And the second. Dear colleagues, please pay attention. Today’s law contains the words “because of the allocation of additional allocations”. Extra selection! That is, in addition to the allocations, the extra ones have to be made. The author suggests that these words be taken away. As a result of the discussion, we have the opportunity to put it to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. I would like to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 44 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities. [[4774 Bill Registration Number]] Please vote. [[17:01:25]] For 217 Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention, I've taken it for granted, because this is a classic example, I'd say, of a double conflict of interest. And I'd like us to pay attention to that when there's a person in charge of a professional organization. She registers a bill to allocate money to her organization, instead of being the head of the committee that considers it, she doesn't come or report at all. I think it's a disgrace to Parliament in general, including. We can't create such precedents that a person is working somewhere on the side, lobbying the interests of an organization -- and doesn't even have time to come and explain the meaning of this bill. I, Adam Ivanovich, would like you, as chairman now, or as Head of the Supreme Council, to note that the committee head, who receives a salary here and has a workbook, should, at least, go to work, and report, as a maximum, his bills, which he introduces. And I would ask all the people who lead business structures with honor or public authority not to make bills on budget allocations for their organizations. It's unethical as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u71	A draft Regulation on the development of a State-wide programme for reducing and phasing out the use of phosphate-based detergents in Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 3161]] I'd like to take a brief look at it. Please vote. [[17:03:18]] For 202 Decision taken. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov is the author of the bill. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u72	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! You are considering a draft regulation that aims to create conditions for the implementation of state policy in terms of reducing and phasing out the use of phosphate-based detergents in Ukraine. It is envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft national programme. In most countries of Europe, Canada, and the United States have for about 20 years given up on phosphate supplements. Most of the washing agents used in the Ukrainian consumer market — and their volume, according to experts, range from 350 to 450 thousand tons per year — contain the maximum number of phosphate compounds. This figure is increasing with each year, although there is no real static accounting of production volumes, use of imports, and export of mine products at all in Ukraine. The main active components of all the washing powders are so-called surface-active substances, which represent extremely active chemicals. When they arrive in the body, they accumulate and have a negative effect on health. Common powders contain 10-15 percent of surface-active substances, and the rest 80 percent of them are phosphate supplements: bleachers, enzymes, and other supplements. The presence of phosphate supplements in powders leads to a significant increase in the toxic properties of surface-active substances. According to experts, about 60 percent of the total phosphorus contained in phosphate - based detergents is needed for sewage. waste water. World experience shows that treatment plants do not solve the problem of protecting water from phosphate pollution but, rather, do not solve the problem of water pollution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u74	Yes, very briefly. Please support this bill with a single amendment, as it has long been considered in the walls of the Supreme Council, please change the terms in the first paragraph, after the words “the Cabinet of Ministers” with the words “until 1 December 2009,” replace the words “until 1 May 2011”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u75	Thank you. Please, from the Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u76	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Water needs to be considered the most important national value, so that we can preserve nature's most valuable resource -- water in this millennium. Water pollution by phosphate-containing substances contributes to the violent reproduction of blue and green algae and to the flowering of water, accompanied by a sharp decline in water in oxygen content, the loss of fish and other aquatic animals. During the bloom of Kyivsky, Kakhovsky, and other handmade seas on Dniper, there is a smell of smell, and the waves throw dead fish on the shore. In many countries of Europe and the United States 20 years ago, the release of phosphate - free powders was stopped. They stopped releasing phosphate powders. There is legislation that prohibits the use of phosphates in washing powders. Therefore, the activity of developing a legislative framework for reducing and phasing out the use of phosphate-based detergents in Ukraine is undeniable. At its meeting, the committee considered a bill submitted by a colleague of Lisov on the development of a state-wide programme to reduce and phase out the use of phosphate-based detergents in Ukraine and recommended that it be adopted as a whole. The need for the development of the named programme is also supported by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, the Committee of Water Management of Ukraine and the Minister of Agriculture of Ukraine. We also support the amendment of colleague Lisov to transfer the deadlines for the introduction of this bill. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u77	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, please sit down. Shall we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri. Then. We'll make it worth your while. Dear colleagues, let's vote. Only, really, since the project has been under review since March 2009, do we need to clarify it as proposed by the author of the bill, the date. Given the date that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will develop such a programme by 1 May 2010, I am voting on the whole decision to develop a state-wide programme to reduce and phase out the use of phosphate-based detergents in Ukraine. Clarification. The date is until May 1, 2011. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not far. Vote. [[17:09:12]] For 342 Thank you. 342, the decision is made to specify the date. A draft decree is under consideration to mark the 350th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Trostyanec Sumska District, Bill 6273. Short-term proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do we vote without discussion? I'm voting on the adoption of a decree marking the 350th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Trieste in the Suma region on the adoption of it as a whole. [[Registration number 6263]] Please vote. [[17:10:05]] For 319 Thank you. Decision accepted. Draft decree marking the 80th anniversary of the birth of the first Ukrainian cosmonaut, twice Hero of the Soviet Union Popovic Pavel Romanović, 6319. Hair, please microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u78	Mikhailo Kosov, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Reforms and Order. Of course we're going to vote for this, but it's not exactly a correct question, because the first Ukrainian cosmonaut was our countryman and Parliamentary colleague, Kadenyuk. Leonid, but Kadenuk. We all respect him because he's still an active man. With regard to this decree, he was indeed a very famous man, a very famous Ukrainian, but there was no Ukrainian state at that time. So it can be changed that the first cosmonaut, a Soviet cosmonaut of Ukrainian origin, or something else. So let's take this together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u79	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! Now, wait, please. I think if we wrote the first cosmonaut of Ukraine, we would be wrong, because indeed, the first cosmonaut of the state of Ukraine was our esteemed colleague Leonid Kadenuk. If we're writing the first Ukrainian cosmonaut, we're right, because the first Ukrainian to fly into space was Paul Romanovich himself, that's one thing. The other one. Please see, October 5th is 80 years old from the birth of Popovic, the first cosmonaut, twice Hero, awarded the Order of Prince Jaroslav of the Wise IV, the deputy of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.S.R. Sixth-Eleventh call. Five calls he was a deputy, our colleague forerunner, an honorary citizen of the four cities of Ukraine, the first president of the Russian Society of Ukrainian Culture "Slavutic". I'm asking you to support this proposal. Vote. [[17:13:02]] For 328 Thank you. The draft decree on the 80th anniversary of Popovic's birth supported 328 people's deputies. [[Registration number 6319]] The 2010 Memorial and Jubilee Regulations are being followed. [[Registration number 6124]] Head of the Yavorowski Committee on Culture and Spirituality I'd like to take a brief look at this. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:13:46]] For 260 Thank you. Please, if it takes four minutes, we give four minutes because he's both the author and the head of the committee. Please, four minutes, please, Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, dear voters, it has come to pass that almost half a year has passed and it is clear that half of those notable dates that relate to both great cities and historical events and certain historical personnel have already passed. And frankly, I don't even know, maybe there's no point in voting for them today. That's why I'd like to suggest we start with those real dates that we have left, which we still have a chance to celebrate. So until June 8th, we voted for it. You know here in Parliament his anniversary is celebrated, I wouldn't say that it's so obvious that we've all noticed this Jubilee, but we've marked it. And below, on June 20th of the day of the birth of Domanian Anton Volodymyrovich, a scientist, chemist, academic academy, director of the Institute of Common Chemistry, 130 years of age, from here and below, one could vote for all these dates. I want to address the National MPs, I've been writing a few times, I've been addressing this rostrum, my distinguished colleagues, please give your suggestions to whatever you think is necessary. The committee will look at them, and the committee will bring them into this list of dates. There are, of course, certain standards of dates -- it's either a round date, it's a presidential decree, it's a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that regulates the definition of dates that we didn't celebrate, let's say, every year. And that's when there's really a round date: either a hundred, or a ten. In keeping with these rules, we have chosen certain Jubilees. That's why we've already added our own, and we've voted for the Tristan, and we've voted for Popovic, and that's why I've asked you now, well, if it wasn't there, but there's a Ukrainian state, it has to have a certain list of national dates at the national level. True, I must tell you right away that you, my dear colleagues, when you make these draft regulations, they all go under the copier. Make sure to make a brand, such as gasification and the like. Obviously, there would have to be a little bit of variety here, because there are some dates higher, let's say there are millenniums there, or whatever, there are some slightly different things like, let's say, the same Trieste. But that's business. Because of that, I would ask you to vote in favour of this list. No one else added anything, only Popovic's birthday was added, and we voted for him. There were no more arrivals. And I would like to do it today, literally today, from our oil industry, today, today, at the end of the year, at the end of the 200th anniversary of the beginning of oil production in Ukraine. It was in Drogobych back in Austria-Hungary. I'm saying once again that the committee is usually willing to support this date, because it's important, it's 200 years, but it's up to your personal judgment to take it out of the vote. If you'd like to make an offer, I'll offer it to you. Adam Ivanovich, I have everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u81	Thank you, thank you, sit down, please. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, sit down because they're recorded for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u82	Adam Ivanovich, there is only one situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u83	But they're also sitting on the decision. So choose what's best. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u84	Please pass the word to Vadim Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is certainly a very, very important document, and we can see that it has been very productively worked by the profiling committee. Sadly, though, there are many questions before the dates that are yet to be proposed. Well, for example, what does a joint victory have to do with the victory of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, when during the Greenwald Battle there were Polish, Lithuanian, and perhaps some Ukrainian Poles. Well, I don't see the victory of Ukrainian weapons, and that's an outrage, that's the first. Secondly, certainly, we treat the town of Ostrog and Ostrov Academy with great respect, but it's not a round date for 425 years, so it's not the subject of this document either. And when we begin to develop this document further, we see that we wanted to propose that we vote with a package. And they want us to vote in favour of Mr. Sheptic Andrew's birthday, but for this gentleman, I don't think anyone will vote from the Party of Regions or from smart people. Because this man has a direct bearing on the sanctification of UN-UPA and those bandits who destroyed the Jewish population in Lviv. And I will never be able to vote for it, and Ukrainian society will never support us. Therefore, we should take seriously the issues that we are voting here so that we do not disturb Ukrainian society but merely bring about order, understanding and harmony. Here I propose that this committee return to the development of this important document and that the dates that unite our nation support it and unite every person who cares for the future and our past. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u86	Please, Mikhail Kosov. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u87	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. It's a good thing I signed up. Because it's not the first time this document has spread openly, it's a lie, it's a lie, it's a word I've never used in Parliament. But the point is that 40 Ukrainian regiments from all of Ukraine’s territories were involved in the Battle of Grunwald. There were Volinsky, Galicsky, the Kyiv Poles. And to give it to someone else as a ransom would be a historical nonsensus. But we have no right to do that! And when I worked at the Lviv Historical Museum, I had, well, I had a duty to work on those documents, not many, but still remained, celebrating the Ukrainians in this, let's say, the battle of the nations. Now the second one. Lord, how long will this lie continue to be heard, as if the Shaptical had something to do with the Jewish or Jewish pogroms?Oh, my God! After all, it is well - known that, thanks to Sheptical, hundreds of people of Jewish nationality have saved their lives. After all, Cagane, Israel’s chief slave, was saved because Sheptsky had saved him. But in the monasteries of the Ukrainian Churches there were specially furnished rooms, where there was no room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u88	Please, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u89	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, I believe, and the representatives of the faction of the Company of Ukraine believe that the very approach proposed in Decree 6124 is completely unacceptable. Why Unacceptable? And because when we approve, we make a determination to set a date, a corresponding commission is given to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to resolve specific issues related to that date. What the authors of Decree 6124 proposed was an effort to combine the unconnected. And my colleague, Vadim Koleschenko, quite figuratively, demonstrated this in his speech. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support this bill, it will not support this bill, and because Yavorowski is lying today when he said that they supported the decision right after Popovic. He didn't vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, 1 minute from the non-acting faction. Carpuch. Then a line after the vote or before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I never thought this bill would go through such a thorny path in the halls of Parliament. If we really want to reconcile the two wings of Ukraine, if we really understand the history of Ukraine, as they understand in Spain, as we have understood in other countries, we understand that there are questions on one side or the other to one person, but this is the integrity of our nation, this is the only nation. And people who talk about what they call other things are people who look at Ukraine with the eyes of the empire, with Moscow's eyes that have no other understanding. If so far people have not read who is Sheptic, what is the significance of the Grunwald battle, then what should we show? I think that some actors should not buy paintings in Sotbis, a “discovered woman”, but rather buy gifts from a set of Ukrainian history. Then there will be a different thinking, another will be a vote and a different perception of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u92	Please reply, Yavorowski, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u93	Vladimir Yavorowski. First of all, I want to tell a fellow communist that I personally knew Paul Popovic and I were sitting next to him in the Soviet Union. Because of this, I could not, if I had not voted for him, stand by the rostrum to report him. So have a conscience, and do not throw it out into the public; that is, some of your inventions. And the last thing I wanted to say. I feel like you're not voting. That's what you need, the great unifiers of Ukraine, you're totally political. This is what unites Ukraine. What did Yavorowski make up this story? Has Sheptic Yavorowski invented it? But you're not voting for Ostróg right now. Janukovic took an oath in the Ostróskie Gospel, and he was not the only one who accepted it. You don't vote for it. You don't vote for the first constitution in the world of Philip Orlik. But another nation would be proud of it all over the world. Don't vote, I say again. You just, forgive me, but you, I don't know whether you're Ukrainian or not. The committee will no longer enter into this decision. You don't want to. You don't have to. It'll go down in history, your shame. I'm voting on the draft Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2010. [[Registration number 6124]] [[17:26:20]] For-152. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 106, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 45, the rest of the factions did not vote. As this is the 3rd or 4th question, it doesn't get the required number of votes, the draft ruling is rejected. A draft Decision on the preservation of the Kyewovo-Pechreske Lavra complex and further development of the National Kyewo-Pechres Historical and Cultural Reserve is under consideration. [[Registration number 6414]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:27:10]] For 216 Decision taken. Please, Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich. We've also considered this a number of times, please take a look. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u94	Dear voters, I address you first. Ukrainians have a unique memory, an amazing memory, which is virtually nowhere else in the world today in UNESCO, meaning that it does not belong to just us, it belongs to us today, give gifts for the attic, maybe a pompous style, it belongs to mankind today. She's in charge together. Kyewovo-Pecherska Lavra along with Sofia as one object. You know that UNESCO inspectors have come several times. They're very concerned about the situation that took place around Kiev-Pecher Lavra and around Sofia. I'm just going to remind you that even in the buffer zone around the perimeter, it means, a few miles from that monument, to build something, you have to take permission in UNESCO. Since the Kiev-Pecher Lavra is under the protectorate of the Czernowetské, which is the city council, there are really terrible things going on. And these inspectors have repeatedly signaled that Ukraine could end up in the disgraceful role that Afghanistan was in during the former war, when their battles destroyed their unique monuments. And they were expelled, thrown out of this list. It is a tremendous disgrace, of course, not to bring the Lord to us to live. What's going on in Kiev? It's chaotic, even in Lavra's own territory, and it's chaotic. The city’s council also allocates land in the zone itself, both in the buffer zone and even in the area itself. I understand that someone in those first, first, ballots were constantly trying, and there was another government, someone, I mean, tossing such an idea that it had some kind of relationship, let's say, there, to religious things. Nothing! The Moscow Patriarchate rents caves, rents a monastery, and so forth. And Kyewovo-Pecher Lavra itself as a monument is, of course, a state property. But state property is conditional. It belongs ideologically, as it were, to the Ministry of Culture, but physically the land, the buildings belong to the city. Why am I redrafting this decision? Because Azarov recently stated -- perhaps all of you have heard -- that it is necessary to take to cities that can't give advice either financially or organizationally, or scientifically, can't advise on the protection of Kiev-Pecher Lavra and hand it over to the government. I refer to the “regonals”, the decree conveys to your government, your Azarov, your minister of culture, this monument to preserve it. I can't imagine who I'm going to vote for. Who doesn't vote for it. Once again, I've got the papers from the accounting room that you trust, I don't doubt it. It has been established that the organizational system for the functioning of the Kiev-Pecher Lavra complex is unsatisfactory and unsettled and does not ensure the achievement of the objectives of the budgetary programmes financed by the development measures, the facilities and land of the National Kyiv-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, which are part of the administration of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, remain the communal property of the Kyiv territorial community, which creates conditions for the administration of the Kyivrad for its own consideration and does not contribute to the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage. I've got everything. I ask you to vote for this, it's very important. Once again, we hand it over to the government of Azarov, not to the government of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u95	Thank you. Yes, are there speakers? Yes, please sign in. Please, Pavlovski, Karmazin is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u96	Indeed, the Kyewovo-Pecher Lavra is a monument that is marked both by UNESCO and is our National Historical and Cultural Reserve. And certainly the state must control and be responsible for the preservation of this historic pearl of our state. That's why I'm proposing the Yulia Timoshenko Block, our faction, is proposing to support the stated decision, especially that the operational administration of these matters will be carried out by an active government, the government of Mikli Azarov, the appropriate Ministry of Culture, which is under the control of the Party of Regions. So hopefully, the Party of the Regions will support that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u97	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like to convey the word of Kulikov, who was a monument to history and culture. And he's going to take a position on that. I'm regretting that we didn't mark the date. And I'd like to ask, maybe if we were to write Chechtov or Koleschenka there, in that case they would vote in favour of that decision -- the appointment of dates? And please Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u99	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u100	Thank you very much, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you very much. Colleagues, I want to say that according to the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, it has been found a terrible fact that 14 buildings located in Lavra have been placed in the bank by the Kyiv City Administration. This can never happen because it can never happen anywhere. To this day all this property is being scattered, to this day, there is indeed a terrible situation, the cost of maintaining the slopes and all that. So today we need to make some kind of a choice to take over this power, really, two cultural reserves, Laura and Sofia, because without these reserves there is no Ukraine, there is no history of us, there is no religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u101	Please, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u102	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I'd like to refer to the distinguished reporter, Vladimir Alexanderovich, I'm making my own clarification, and I want to clarify this position that you and I have heard. Yes, indeed, you were personally familiar with Popovic and voted, but when this decree was voted on, only 84 representatives of your political power and faction voted for it. This is a significant clarification, but it is necessary for all the representatives of the political power you represent to vote in such a fiery acknowledgment for the adoption of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u103	Please, from the faction that hasn't spoken, the Party of Regions, Kolezničenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u104	Respectable comrades! Of course, the Kiev laurel is a very important monument to the history and culture of our society and it certainly requires preservation and preservation. So far, unfortunately, why hasn't anyone found out, and why haven't the priests of the Moscow Patriarchate been given the right to own and manage the objects he's handed over to them long ago? Why do such problems occur in the Chinese Monastery, where a food - tasting factory deals with monks who have obtained legal property? Finally, the most interesting decision in the draft was that, once again, cancer had been introduced for stone, for some reason in the violation of the Constitution, it was proposed that control should be given to the Committee on Spirituality, although that was the prerogative of Parliament alone. That is why this draft regulation is raw and unexploded and does not determine what is assigned to the Committee. I propose that this draft order be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u105	Replica, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, I appeal to all members of the coalition and representatives of the opposition, so let us not introduce in the room bills that are not likely to be adopted, but merely to destroy the room. Well, today, look at the example, Andrew Paris, the smart guy, he passed two bills, 370 votes, he put together a room. Two bills have now been introduced that will never have a chance of being adopted, no, they are being introduced to break the hall. But don't make it, we're already the majority of the laws, with the number of 250 coalitions, we're voting by 350 votes. We already have, I would say, a majority higher than a formalized coalition, a healthy majority. I ask everyone, both the opposition, and the coalitions, not to introduce legislation that corrupts the hall. They will not be able to solve the problems that the people are looking forward to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u107	Question completed. There's no conclusion to the fact that this is a shortened procedure. Draft Decision on the conservation of the Kyewovo-Pechreska Lavra complex and further development of the National Kyewo-Pechre Historical and Cultural Reserve. [[Registration number 6414]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:37:48]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 0, "Clock Timoshenko" - 111, "Our Ukraine" - 37, Communists, "Block of Lithuania", non-fractional - zeros. Please give me a minute, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u108	Dear voters, Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I want to remind our voters of this and to address the Party of Regions, today of your national disgrace, absolutely! You did not even vote for your government to pass on this monument to anyone! Surrender, not to private property, but to take care of the state! And I'm talking to Michael Chechchev. Mr. Michael, I promised you, I will now begin to perform: I will take a minute in the Supreme Council here for a replica and I will read the protocol from your interrogation where you report Yanukovich, Kuchmu, when you were the head of the state fund and after that you “received as pants” and you told it all there! I'll read it because you run anti-Ukrainian politics! I have a moral right to do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u109	Yes, respectable colleagues, third or fourth. Dear colleagues, once again, do not turn questions into propaganda and agitation! I firmly believe that in the near future we will make the right decision with you. Period. Project rejected. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code on the responsibility for unlawful treatment of special technical means of receiving information is under consideration. Re-reading, registration number 3358. Dig in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u110	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement was reviewed in a second reading of the Government's draft Ukrainian Law on the Criminal Code on the Responsibility for the Illicit Treatment of Special Technical Means of Indiscriminate Information. [[Registration number 3358]] The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, by improving the legal regime for the protection of fundamental personal rights and human freedoms, by ensuring the principle of their non-alienableness and integrity, of equality before the law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a comprehensive bill was one of the first to be passed under Rule 116 of the Rules. The point is that in order to systematically address the issue of combating the legitimate circulation of information, there is a need for amendments to several normative acts: the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Offences. Only changes to the Criminal Code were made to the first reading. But article 116 of the Rules forbids us to make a second reading of a position that was not voted in the first. Thus, in order to preserve the unity of the legislative field, the committee decided to follow the following course. draft a separate bill with the necessary amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Offences. And invite the Supreme Council to consider it with a major project. That's exactly what's happening today. The next is a project that comes out of the table that was given and that we're looking at right now. [[No. 6191]] In fact, Bill 3358 amends two articles of the Criminal Code. First. This is a complement to the list of smuggling items by special technical means of receiving information. Because it's not just a product, it's an object that's kind of limited in civilian circulation. At that time, much of the so-called beetles come to us from abroad. This leads to a discussion or is now the subject of article 201. So in order to define more clearly the criminal responsibility for the smuggling of appropriate means, a group such as the subject matter of smuggling should be identified separately, just as it is done with respect to historical, cultural values, explosives, weapons, and so forth. The other one. We present article 359 in a new edition, a corresponding criminal responsibility will arise not only for the use of such tools as this today but also for the illicit purchase or sale of special technical means of obtaining information. In addition, responsibility for the commission of a crime by a group of individuals is now provided for in part two and for the commission of a crime by a group organized in part three of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u111	Thank you. It's a second reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues, all amendments to Bill 3358 except Amendment No. 1 of Pysarenko's colleague are counted. Doesn't Pisarenko insist on fixing it? No, it's not. No one is insisting that the amendments taken into account by the committee be confirmed. No, it's not. Then, with your permission, I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for illegal conduct with special technical means of non-voting information. [[Registration number 3358]] Please vote. [[17:44:04]] For 322 The law is passed. And, honourable colleagues, the reporter said, I'd like to take your attention again and express my gratitude to the Committee of Profiles, and I'd like others to take an example of it. They clearly took into account article 116 of the Rules, the essence of which is that it is possible to make changes to the second reading only in the articles and rules of law adopted in the first. Therefore, there was a need to improve legislation and to solve this problem, we must now consider Bill No. 6191, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the responsibility for illegal treatment of special technical means of receiving information. Please, two minutes. I am voting on this bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:45:20.]] For 271 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u112	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! As mentioned above, it is precisely in order to regulate, on the basis of article 116 of the Rules, a separate bill under number 6191, that is, a request from the head of the Security Service, who also requests to be taken into account in the complex of these two bills. Therefore, the bill is designed to ensure that the current legislation of Ukraine is amended, resulting from the legislative protection of legal activities prepared by the Committee for the Adoption of Registration Number 3358 as a whole. Project 6191 foresees the following changes to existing legislation. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations now provides for responsibility for the acquisition and storage of technical means of information. These actions are viewed exclusively as part of the overall illegal circulation process. As a result of the adoption of these two bills and the previous 3358, we are comprehensively regulating the resistance to this circulation. If a person’s participation in it is proved by purchase or sale, he will be criminally responsible if there is no evidence, then administrative responsibility will be placed solely on storage if removed. In accordance with the legislative technique of the Code of Administrative Offences, anything related to the acquisition of technical means of obtaining information is excluded because it is transferred to the Criminal Code. These are changes to articles 15, 195, footnote 5, 259, 262. Article 112 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure introduces the necessary amendments to article 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to alternative traceability. This solves the problem of resisting the illicit production of technical means of obtaining information. The Security Service will now be able to investigate criminal cases on its own under article 202 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u113	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u114	The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, but based on everything, as previously announced after the adoption of Bill 3358, there is now reason to adopt the draft as a basis and as a whole as a law. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u115	Yes, thank you. Have a seat. Is there a need to discuss? None. Then, honourable colleagues, once again, I stress, really, this bill comes out of what we've already adopted as a whole as a law, I confirm, and to the leadership of the Supreme Council there was also an appeal by the Security Service about what we really need to settle. It is imperative to resolve this problem, because unfortunately, if we believe in the media -- and we can't deny it -- one of the important publications recently said that everyone and everyone listens. This should not be allowed because there is human rights and the Constitution. I am voting on the adoption on the basis of Bill No.6191: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve responsibility for the illegal treatment of special technical means of receiving information. Please vote. [[17:49:11]] For 331 I think the results of the vote give me reason to put, with your consent, to a vote throughout this law. Please vote. [[17:49:37]] For 325 The law is passed. Thank you. So we solved the problem. Thank you again, dear colleagues, for your understanding. This is the first time we've gone this way. It was not repeated, but we had no other choice. Rereading the first reading. Bill No. 4671-d: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water, as amended by the Committee. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Can we, Anatoly Ivanovich, for short?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u117	I am voting on the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[17:50:36]] For 226 Thank you, 226. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u118	The Honourable Chief, Honorary Colleagues, on March 4, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine commissioned the committee to finalize the draft Ukrainian Law amending the law on drinking water and drinking water and to reread it for the first time. Since the Supreme Council has generally supported this bill, we present it in the concept proposed by the authors – our colleagues: Gerasimczuk, Pavlenko and Gołchenko. We took into account the proposals made during the previous discussion, those that came from the legislators and professionals of the professional ministries. The draft law defines individual changes in basic terminology. It is proposed to change the definition of “consumer of drinking water” by extending the range of needs for which drinking water can be used, allowing a contract of water supply and water supply relations to be arranged, to ensure the implementation of the legitimate right of the host subject to the provision of services and the payment of their value to persons who are actually using them. It is also proposed that the principles of public policy in the field of drinking water and drinking water be complemented with the use of precautionary measures to protect water systems and clean sewage as life - sustaining facilities and the strategic importance of informing them of their condition. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. The Ministry of Finance and Justice supports the bill without notice. The Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Nature and the Ministry of Social Affairs made comments on the editorial character that did not affect the substance of the bill. The Committee proposes to support the amended bill amending the Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water and to adopt it in the first reading with a view to preparing it for second reading. The proposals for the bill came up to this time, as well as possible proposals by legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u119	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u120	will be taken into account in his preparation for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u121	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? Do they? Please, Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u122	Deputies! I ask you to support this bill because we have amazing things in our country, when all service providers are protected, if you don't pay for electricity, they'll turn off the light, the gas, like in the cinema, the same thing, for heat, the same thing, and you can take as much water as you want, for absolutely nothing, and for no one to pay, which leads to total bankruptcy of the water and sanitation industry. I want you to notice that this law concerns only legal persons and has nothing to do with individuals who are protected in this regard. This law does not yet have any financial burdens, nor does it require any financial costs, so I am asking you to support this bill in order to keep housing and utilities in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u123	Thank you. Shall we vote? Then I put to the vote on acceptance as a basis, in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. [[Registration number 4671-d]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:55:00]] For 197 Not accepted. The law - by factions? That's why it's strange that one faction will report, agitate, and vote another. Please use fractions: Region Party - 158, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 12, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 5, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 19, non-factional - 3. Since this bill has already been reviewed several times, it has not obtained the required number of votes, it has been rejected. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on road accidents and insurance payments is under consideration. Also rereading the first reading. [[Registration number 4652-D]] Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. I'm making a proposal to review this bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:56:15]] For 235 The decision is supported. Offer supported. Please, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u124	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, your opinion is proposed in Bill 4652 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on road accidents and insurance payments. A road accident analysis in Ukraine has shown that traffic has been increasingly difficult in recent years. According to statistics, the level of emergency on the road network is stable and during 2009 alone, 229 and a half thousand accidents, including 37,000 with casualties, have been registered. [[16%]] Of these, 151 thousand are insured vehicles, or 65.8 percent of the total. And in this amount, a large portion of the traffic that's done without injured people and injured people and could be formed without the participation of the DAI's own insured participants in the adventure by their consent. Today, I am reminded that about 70 percent of Ukraine’s insured cars are intoxicated. Today, legislation has established that all materials, without the exception of road transport, are produced exclusively by internal affairs authorities. Taking into account the current state of emergency and the number of police officers involved in the design of these adventures, there are daily situations in which victims of the accident are forced to wait for hours for police personnel to arrive to prepare the materials. I'll give you some examples, even our Chevchenka Avenue, the Prospect of Victory, when they've just touched it and they're actually waiting for the "test" of the arrival of militia personnel, that's when the movement is completely stopped. Around the world, in Europe, already in Russia, in Moldova, in Belarus, there's a long history of what's called a Euro-Protocol, where these issues are practically solved by those representatives whose cars are insured and where there are no serious consequences. So there's no traffic casualties. This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u125	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u126	The bill was passed by a round table, parliamentary hearings. He had comments that were out of the question, and now he's become a committee. And actually, those wishes that were made by the Scientific and Experimental Chief Executive were taken into account. Those still there will be included in the next second reading. In general, the bill, once again, is necessary, it's promising, and it's being used all over the world. Please support me as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u127	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m1.u128	Yes, we will vote, only I would ask before the vote to pay attention to one detail. Are we not the initiators of the obligation to fear all? Because if you're insured, you can consider that question. You don't have to answer, I understand. But there's a stick at two ends, you know. There could be a lot of lobbying here, I won't explain. Is there a need to discuss? None. Then I'm voting on the first reading of Bill 4652-d, namely the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on road accidents and insurance payments. Please vote. [[18:00:16]] For 322 The law was adopted in the first reading, please work for the second. And, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to move the issue of the 1017th draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Please vote. [[18:00:55]] For 244 The draft law, at the request of the authors, is being referred to its consideration. Dear colleagues! We've fully completed our schedule for Tuesday, and thank you for your good work. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
