ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:02:51]] Cards, cards, and 411 people’s deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council during the break. We discussed a number of issues, such as making a number of decisions regarding local elections and electoral legislation. In principle, we agreed that the Ukrainian National Deputies would be familiar with the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution, which relates to bringing to one denominator the term of office of members of the local councils, as well as the city head, i.e. five years. And it will also be proposed by this draft law to set a date for the local elections in order to remove the political tension on this issue. The law will also stipulate that the term of office of deputies and city heads will be five years. And if there's a different election, then they're going to work -- there, for 2 or 3 years -- but they're going to go to general elections, so that we don't have a difference in this issue, that we've made almost a thousand decisions about the holding of the temporary elections since 2006. And by the way, on Thursday, we're going to be making hundreds of corresponding draft decisions. We also agreed that everyone is now familiar with the draft Electoral Codex. On April 28, there will be a presentation, a presentation of this Electoral Code, and on Thursday we will make a decision to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue. Then we will bring to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Electoral Codex, which will be proposed for re-reading. And in the draft, the determination is to make it clear that it's going to be re-read. You know very well what the electoral system is going to be. Once the positions have been reconciled, the draft Electoral Code will be issued and proposed for adoption on the first reading in such a way that this work will be completed before the end of this session and that during the summer holidays it will be possible for everyone to think again about what is an acceptable electoral system for Ukraine. Also, if we don't have any differences, we'll bring the matter of sending Bill 4177 to the Constitutional Court on Thursday. We have considered the second issue concerning the passage of the National Budget project of Ukraine, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine after April 10th. You understand very well, my fellow Members, that we cannot today be guided by the terms provided for in the Code of Budgets and in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council, since we are on a completely different time scale. So we don't have 2.5 months to review the state budget. We discussed a schedule that will be proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the day of the presentation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's draft State Budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. This is essentially April 14. We're going to be asked to organize the work in such a way that on the 29th and 30th we can make the final decision, I mean April. We've also discussed the question of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies into the relevant committees, especially those of our colleagues who today took the oath of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, as well as those deputies who have not yet been sent to work on a committee. And we agreed in this way that this issue will be discussed in detail in the Regulatory Committee, and we will do everything we can to find an understanding of this issue, and if we are ready for this plenary week, a comprehensive one decision will be put forward for consideration by the Supreme Council, i.e. a project to regulate the work of the National Deputies on the Committees, as well as the management of the relevant committees on which we have vacancies today. It's basically all the questions that we've had consultations about and we've come up with agreed decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]] I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies. What's this entry going to be? Please cancel it and we'll do the recording now. Ladies and gentlemen of the Secretariat, please take down the records that were there. There is now a recording of the factions and then of the national deputies. I'd like you to sign up, dear fellows. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Kamchatny, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the right to speak is handed over to Oleg Laszko, please. Prepare Volodymyr Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u2	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens of the country who observe this action taking place in the Supreme Council. We continue to consider draft Act No. 2058 amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]] I would like to stress that this is a draft of the National Deputy from the faction of the Party of the Region of Artem Scherban, to the great regret of the author, and the faction of the Party of the Regions refused today, on the eve of the 65th anniversary of the Victory in the Great War of the Great Country, it refused to consider this bill today. What is this terrible bill that doesn't want to vote, or even consider the Party of Regions? The bill aims to create conditions for the full implementation of Chernobyl disaster victims to the second category of citizens, to the disabled of the third group of former prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos and other places of forced detention, and to persons who accompany the disabled of the first group of right to travel to and from any point of Ukraine by car or by air or by rail or by water. To this end, it is proposed to grant the right to use either a valid benefit once a year with a 50 percent discount or a free trip once a year, or a free trip once a year, offered in the bill. That is why the bill is not voted on by a faction representing the present power. To the presidential election, every day a party of winners promised the citizens of Ukraine gold mountains, improvements in life today, raising social standards, and so forth. After the presidential election, when these elections were won, when the need to deceive people fell away, I would hang a paw on my ears. They do not vote in favour of the Law on the Promotion of State Social Assistance for low-income families; they do not vote in favour of the bill that we voted today to raise pensions for prison inmates in Nazi camps; they do not vote in favour of the law that provides for additional preferences in the passage of these categories of persons in Ukraine. It's cynicism, which, you know, there's this Ukrainian saying: "Seen the eyes that were buying, eat." So we have the same situation. Instead of the promised rise in social standards, we are offered an increase in pensions to 65 years of age, and we are offered double the tariffs on gas for the population for residential services. Our faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, which has always stood on the side of Ukrainian citizens' interests, will vote in favour of this law, but we propose to introduce free travel not once every two years to people who are now 80 years old, but at least twice a year. Once before May 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u4	once by May 9, so that these people who have given their lives and health for our country may at least pass through the graves to relatives there and back. And the second time, it's September, so they can go to Crimea for a velvet season. We hope that the sanatoriums that the Party of Regions has privatized with the new power that fights corruption. These sanatoriums will return to state property and will rest there for the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the prisoners of Nazi camps, and the prisoners of Stalin’s concentration camps, which are no different from Nazi ghettos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u5	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u6	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u7	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", next will be Gregory Smitush.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u8	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. We, and I, and Vladimir Romanovich, I want to express the idea that we have been asked to express by the faction. We will support this bill and we will ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to adopt this bill both in the first and second readings and in general, because there is nothing to add to this bill completely. For those of you who have talked about the price of this bill as 50 million dollars, I'd like to ask. Unfortunately, I don't see anyone there to ask from the government. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we promised you here and talked, and Janukovic said, “If the rabbits come, the ministers will come.” I want to see those bunnies. Why aren't they sitting here?? Put the bunny ministers here. I want to see. And let them answer, let them accompany the bill. So I don't see the reformers today. All right, ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? We are now restoring only social justice in general, because the right to choose is reserved for other categories of citizens, or to have twice as much discount as 50 percent, or once every two years free to get the right to travel. Please tell me, then, what is 50 million going on? I don't know why. There's no such help. That's why I'd like to hear from the finance minister right now. Unfortunately, there is no minister of finance. So he can hear another minister. Honorable national MPs, apparently absolutely that it would have been desirable for this law, but it would have made it more difficult to consider it, to write that it was not only the former minors who were under 14 at the time of imprisonment, prisoners of concentration camps of ghettos, other places of forced detention recognized by persons with disabilities from general illness and disability, and for other reasons given to them, and minors, as was the case with the previous law that we considered. There was age, we increased from 16 to 18, where it's spread. And this would have to be up to 18. I don't know how many of these people are in the state. Apparently, there are very few of them. As far as compensation is concerned, which is also foreseen, and the benefits of the citizens referred to in category 2, I also think I should accept. And this law absolutely does not need any further work. I repeat that it complements the Law on Status and is unified by the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. It should be accepted both in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u9	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to talk to a colleague who's here so I don't talk. Everyone will understand who I'm talking about. Let's do it this way. Of course, the government has just been formed and certainly has to allow the government to introduce the program and the program will have to deal with some of the issues that have been resolved. And, of course, you can judge by government, in my opinion, if it takes at least 100 days, not one Sunday, when these images have not yet been formed. And, of course, the consequences that we have as a result of the economic, global crisis and crisis that swept over Ukraine, including, including, and for reasons and government that resigned recently, or was retired by the Supreme Council. Of course, these are common reasons. And these general reasons, I hope that the new government will realize that they will report to us here in the Supreme Council. And then we can conclude whether we vote in favour of a law or not. And, of course, the issues that relate to the pension and other benefits that provide, including the population categories that we are considering with you today, of course, that the state should pay the utmost attention to that. And certainly the number one priority for these citizens has been and is in a kind, kind, even more of our faction than today. And you don't have to blame us for voting or not voting. That's what I think. So let's at least take our stamina and stick to some basic parliamentary rules so that we can talk or be judged. Moreover, what it says is that reform in this area, especially the pension, pension, is an urgent problem for the new government. And it certainly takes time for this government to do so. As far as the law we're considering is concerned. In my opinion, of course, it would have to be divided by law and by the general approach of those citizens who were in concentration camps during World War II and those who were certainly in the zone of natural disaster in our – Chernobyl accident. And of course these are different categories of people, and these are different categories of people, and they are different by age, and they are different by status, in my opinion. And I'd divide what point. That I have no doubt, for example, about the people involved in World War II. And I also have a point of view that I could support it if it were politically motivated to have our citizens sent outside Ukraine, right? And these people ended up in camps in the former Soviet Union, and you can also go. But we need to examine and report on this situation as a whole. If only I had statistics to talk about it. Not all slogans give. And one more question. As for the second category of people. If you have read the law, you know that a very large number of these citizens have fallen under this second category. And we really need to approach this issue calmly, balanced. And there are people who are deserving of attention, including for the passage of the credit card. Yeah? And there are people, of course, who can also be reviewed as to the benefits in part of the passage. Because the benefits involved in serving the population are theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u12	So I would have asked the people's deputies not to be charged, so let's send this bill, the more it's 2008, to work on it and then go back to his question next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u13	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the two bills that have been considered in this session hall speak of the extremely low effectiveness of our legislative work in the sphere of social policy, which is very often becoming and will be held hostage to artificial oppression and political passions in the sessionary Hall of the Supreme Council. You see, it's not even about the fact that many of the social-significant projects are being blocked, but it's about the huge damage that is being done to the manifestations of completely unconcealed politics. I don't mean populism, we're all populists, because we're Ukrainian national MPs, I mean politics. When instead of being balanced, given the economic realities of the approach, there's an open demagogism, when the bill's consideration is turned into a normal act of common sense and the desire to try anything at all for your political opponent, agree with me on such a view, such decisions make no good, they only deepen those negative phenomena that we have in the social and political sphere of our country. Well, well, the Party of Regions voted like that, didn't vote, we're looking at a bill right now. Let me remind you how much I owed to the Timoshenko government for the tax trip, for example, in my hometown of Zaporozhye, 28 million dollars of money did not come to the city budget; on the verge of stopping the trolleybus connection in Kiev is also the debt of that. Is that what our voters expect of us? Let's go over to you and start showing these dogs here: you, us, you, us. That's not the point. The point is that social policy has to be complex, it has to be balanced. Look! The Third Year of the Labour Code hangs in the air, the third year! Here's the session hall, you, then the coalition, failed the single social contribution bill, failed the social dialogue bill, just failed. I came here from the committee -- he'll confirm it -- some people came under our committee with shame against the Labour Code. I ask, "What articles are you talking about?" And against the first option. He's long gone. People, or we'll respect ourselves as politicians, as law makers, or we'll be laughing and pointing fingers at us all. We have a tax reform, a pension reform. Look at the number of bills in this session hall called “hole-trapping”. You can't do that! We have to be complex and work together if we have to. I welcome the opposition, I very much want her to be sharp, to be persistent, but to be intelligent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u15	Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u16	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! We're discussing another social bill that we've discussed before. The first was regarding the increase in pensions for Nazi concentration camps, and he demanded only 9 million dollars. Another is now seeking the realization of the rights of the Chernobylites, the disabled who became disabled because they were prisoners of these Nazi concentration camps. And this bill that we're looking at right now requires only 50 million dollars. I think from the point of view of the State Budget it's a drop, a penny. I want to say the next thing. [[And they say it's less, it's going to be]] I want to say that, really, I want to go to the Party of Regions -- my colleagues, let's be honest, let's remember how you blocked the work of the Supreme Council for six months, demanding a rise, a sharp rise in social standards. And the question is, where do you get the money? And the same Janukovich, Azarov, said that they knew where to take them. And it turns out that they know where to take it, that knowledge causes them to ask for five billion dollars in the International Monetary Fund under unacceptable conditions for Ukraine. Under what conditions? And the sharp rise in gas prices for the population, the double increase in housing rates, the increase in the retirement age for our people by five years, and that's the average age of men's life at 62 years. So maybe there's no one to pay the pension? And there is such information that the Party of Regions agrees to these shameful conditions. And the social reforms of the government of Yanukovic, Azarov, what are the statements of the leaders? To limit social costs. This means that it is the translation of severe economic problems on the shoulders of the most vulnerable — pensioners, disabled persons, budgeters. In particular, it is envisaged to limit the payment of pensions to working pensioners, to suspend payment of early retirement pensions, to freeze special pensions, and so forth. And I want to remind both the Head of the Supreme Council and the Regulatory Committee that we are witnessing a gross violation of the Rules and failure to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since February 9 on the urgent, short-term procedure for reviewing the bill on State social assistance to low-income families at the minimum of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u17	Finish up, please. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u18	I mean, we've just witnessed a cynical approach. When in opposition you promise anything and when you come to power, you forget about your social obligations and your promises. So it is a matter of opposition to recall these promises and to help them fulfill them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you some information: The Conciliation Council has been disturbed by the question that the time passed for the consideration of Bill 1416, which was just mentioned by colleague Pavlovsky, will be on the schedule on Thursday when we consider the bills. One minute! Bills in second reading. So this problem is solved. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u20	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group "For Ukraine!", party "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Our parliamentary group supports the adoption of this bill, because people really deserve this debt passage, but we only support it in the first reading, because there's really enough point to make, we need to listen to it and we need to include it in the second reading. First of all, it's about what to calculate, or maybe it's actually to be once a year, not once every two years, because, in fact, a lot of people won't be waiting for that pay-per-view. And the second is to include in these alcohol categories the fasteners of the steel camps. At that time, there is a very vivid trend today, which is in our political system, that the attitude and attitude of voting to a particular social benefit, to one or the other social preferences depends on whether the opposition or the coalition is a political power or not. Let's see: these bills, as before, were registered in February 2008, when the author was in opposition, and then let's mention how the Party of Regions insisted that certain days should even be set aside for the Supreme Council to consider a number of legislative acts relating to social benefits, and there was even a lot of talk about it. When the situation changed, when these benefits had to be paid to the government, a completely different viewpoint. So the absence of such a systematic approach to what policies in the form of benefits, what social benefits, what social preferences need to be made, and what results in this imbalance. And no matter how much we accept, we keep increasing this number of benefits, not including an economic institution, not taking into account the situation in the country. So we really need both the Supreme Council committees and the ministries to consider those issues of integrated assessment, about the systemic approach to the benefits that our state has. Because the number of taxpayers exceeds all possible limits, we have 3-4 percent more than the percentage in EU countries of people with benefits. And for these laws, I think we need to vote, accept them as a basis and consider them in a shortcut to actually make a gift by 9 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u21	People's MP Petrenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. You don't? He's refusing. National Deputy Suškević. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Suškević You know, I'd like us to step away from the political view of this bill, see that in both cases, and in the case of people who. Citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, and citizens who are victims of Nazi persecution -- in both cases, we have with the people who have lost their health. In the second case, they are just disabled people who need to be treated. In the first case, they are also people with disabilities who have a second category of Chernobyl disaster victims. Of course, a lot of these categories can't implement this benefit, the 50-percent benefit, because most of the money they get, and these are usually small pensions and small wages, they go to medicine, they go to treatment. So, of course, once every two years, if this first year benefit is not used, it is normal to give these people a free trip once every two years. Repeat: once every two years if not used 50 percent. Furthermore, I want to say that such a rule is not unique, it is also provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, such a right already provided for participants in the war, members of their families, dead or dead veterans, persons with disabilities of the Third Group war and other categories. So I think we need to understand here that this is a completely social bill that is worth voting for and supporting people who are affected by the Chernobyl disaster, who today have very little social status and have trouble paying for their passage. The same is true of people with disabilities who are foretold to be victims of Nazi persecution. I call for this bill to be voted on, which will support the socially vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u23	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin was recorded for the performance, but when Vladimir Moisik gave him the right to speak, his name was automatically removed. At the same time, justice must be restored and the right to speak again to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u24	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing a colleague from the Party of Regions, a bill introduced by a member of your faction, Mr. Scherban. I would like to point out that on the eighth page of the bill, paragraph 5, the financial and economic justifications are as follows: “The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on amending certain laws of Ukraine does not require additional costs from the state and local budgets.” And his signature. This is written down. So, really, this law doesn't require at all, the only possibility here is that I've been told absolutely correctly at the break, it's when in one cut everyone wants to go right away this year, but the state isn't created for a year. This is the first time. It's different. That's impossible because someone used it last year and it's technically impossible. So I now call on the entire room to join us, to join us in adopting this law. As for our colleague, with whom we have worked for many years in this room, a social policy specialist, he, I will quote him, said the very right words. He said that social policy should be complex, balanced, and I'll add, and it shouldn't be, Mr. Suhiy, a rematch. Because today, in the government of Azarov, there's a rematching social policy that I mean. When people are summoned by all, people from all over the area are called, out of all the departments, from the strong, and they say, "write a statement," it's called the rematching direction of social policy. That's why it shouldn't be, I'd like to pay attention to this of Nina John Carpathian's Commissioner for Human Rights. I would like to draw attention to this by Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko, for something else we have left the general supervision of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine and by fully sharing the thoughts expressed today both by colleague Suškević and Karpuk, and by my colleague Jaroslav Suhi, whom I have just quoted, I would like to urge you to build from this very social policy of a complex, balanced and in the interests of society, not a rematch. This law should, in my view, be adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]] Please vote. [[16:37:01]] For 231 Decision taken. A draft Law is being announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The committee made a warning that it should be prepared for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Please, I'll put to the vote the preparation for the second reading under the shorter procedure, registration number 2058. Short cut. Cancel the vote, please, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u26	We are against taking on second reading today because there are substantial comments, yes. Thank you. We are opposed to taking a second reading today because there are substantial, principled comments. Yeah, second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u27	I said that, but since there's a requirement to put it. One minute, since there is a requirement to prepare for the second reading procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. [[16:38:15]] For 184 Please use fractions: Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 139, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense – 43, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 1, non-fractional – 1. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Please don't shout. A draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on simplifying the conditions for citizens to export goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 2065]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Igor Rybakov and co-reporter – head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please report. Please, the committee's decision. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Secretariat, I'm asking you to take care of this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't disturb me. There was no previous author, you didn't shout, we can't wait for him (the author) when he comes, it's already the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to decide whether or not to make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, this is the third time in today’s session that the authors of the legislative initiative do not appear to present their draft laws. Among other things, Mr. Head, on the Conciliation Council, I have pointed out that this is the same situation on committees when the authors of the legislative initiative do not come to defend their legislative initiative. Why am I saying this? It seems to me that if the person who wrote something doesn't want to prove the social necessity of this thing, then surely we don't have to take up our time. But basically, it's a project. The national deputy Ribakov proposes to increase, but in simple words today there is a 200 euro limit on the export of goods by Ukrainian citizens outside Ukraine, he proposes to increase this limit to 3,000 euros. After considering the proposal, the committee agreed to accept it in the first reading. However, personally, I would like to remind my esteemed colleagues that goods according to the Customs Code are property, or related services designed to be resold. It's not personal use, because the Customs Code defines things that can be exported by a citizen if they're not designed for sale, reselling, giving abroad, or using deposits into some kind of capital without any restriction. So I've informed you of the committee's decision, the committee's asking you to take the basis of this bill, but I think it's going to be, well, a good one for Ukrainian citizens to do commercial work on a travel trip. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the committee head? If so, write it down. If not, do not write it down. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, I would like to ask you, while you're on economic issues, tell me, please, how do you justify what will be a positive effect on Ukraine's economy in the export of goods? From what did the author come, and from what did the committee come, from which calculations did you conclude that the bill should be supported in the first reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u31	Thank you. I don't know what the author came up with, probably from his personal customs case, and the committee came up with a global idea that the more goods come out of Ukraine, the better for those in Ukraine who produce these goods. And that's right. Again, to export goods from Ukraine, not things, but goods need to be at least an entrepreneur. Because these goods are exported in entrepreneurial activities. I remind you, this is an activity aimed at profit or income. If this is true of an individual citizen who was not registered by an entrepreneur, it was also a strange decision by the committee. I didn't vote personally for that decision. But the committee decided by a majority to recommend the project as a basis. Therefore, the hall should decide how to proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. First from the faction, then directly from the people's deputies. Please put your name on the information board. Alexy Plotnikov, then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u33	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! In principle, it's a positive bill, even though it's a warning that my colleague Teryohin said, because it's a certain thing that's undetermined there's something to sell, something that's for self-consuming, but in any case, if we're taking down restrictions on the export of Ukrainian products outside Ukraine, which was purchased in Ukraine, which even if there's a certain amount of price imbalance there, if it's possible to resell it outside Ukraine, it will still lead to the expansion of Ukrainian products abroad. We think it's still a positive direction, a positive bill and we can take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u34	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u35	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'd like, like all of you, to see the help of some tax administration, I'd like to see it until I see if the Ministry of Finance doesn't have it, too, which is, for us, for the state, it's going to cost. On the one hand, it is about making changes to part two of article 250 of the Ukrainian Customs Code, where there are restrictions that the author of the bill considers more faithful, the two authors of the bill to be illogical and devoid of practical meaning. The Explanatory Note does not refer to goods but rather to the value of property. That's what we're talking about. But then it's said that this restriction holds off entrepreneurial activity in the border regions. Since this loving decision is intended to establish a clear sum, the point is that the sum is fifteen times the sum of two hundred euros to three thousand euros. Obviously you have to have a calculation, obviously you have to have a calculation. And I'm not the enemy of producing products in Ukraine, so I moved abroad. But I'd like to have a clear calculation and a clear justification as to what this sum is going to be, whether it's maybe one thousand euros, or maybe 10,000 euros. I don't know how. That's why we can accept this bill in the first reading, but right now I'm going to the Committee of Ours, our Committee on Tax Policy, the Budget Committee, and I'm going to the Ministry of Finance, and I'm going to go to Mr. Jaroshenko's Ministry of Economics, and let's figure it out and see if it's worth doing, because on the one hand, it might be a breakthrough in our goods abroad, and on the other hand, a major loophole to avoid taxation for that activity that will be made possible from selling these goods. Therefore, we will need this second reading basis, and the School and Ribakov colleagues who made this project will likely also join us in giving us some justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine. [[on simplifying the conditions for citizens to export goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine]] Please vote. [[16:49:17]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 2065]] [[16:49:47]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on processing periods]] For the sake of this bill, there is a letter from the committee to withdraw the bill. Well, do I have a committee head, please? You don't? Please, if there's a letter from the committee, then I could put it in. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I could put him to a vote. But since the author is not, the committee heads are not to report, the rapporteur, the drafter of this bill is the national deputy of Ukraine Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, co-rapporteur – deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Bondarev Konstantin Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! The Customs Code standard for 90 days of processing goods in the customs territory of Ukraine has long since come into conflict with the market realities of our economy. And I personally signed not one letter in the session room, including at your request, those areas that have a bearing on which these 90 days are being thrown into a cross-country bed. And there's no way to co-operate in manufacturing, and there's no way to make normal, civilized calculations in currency. Do you understand? As long as in the export sphere of our economy the issue revolved around the metallurgical complex in the '90s, it was more or less satisfying for everyone and the state. But now, in recent years, more and more in the orbit of investment, investment, export operations are in the orbit of machine building, automobile building, aircraft building, missile building, shipbuilding, agricultural machinery building, all of which, in the processing of goods in one area or another, predict the need for a certain amount of time. As I prepare for this bill, I will give you one example that you know. Ukraine has entered into a contract with India for $400 million. I want to tell you, this contract has been concluded, and the airline has been given its chance thanks to the bill on State support for domestic aircraft construction, which was adopted thanks to the support of the government of Yulia Volodymirovna Timoshenko. [[and speak with special opposition]] I'm telling you this for the truth. Plane building, like a high-tech industry, as a branch of the foundation of our KPC, finally got its chance. And today we see such an interesting painting. Look, remember the fourth call, here I was appealed to by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, and I want to appeal to him because he's sitting in the hall all the time, remember, you and I have accepted the State Support for Automobile Construction with what difficulties, agricultural engineering, shipbuilding. These laws worked. What every government that comes from the Yushchenka government does is the same thing that other governments do: all the preferential rules that apply to aircraft building, shipbuilding, engineering, all of these preferential rules in the Budget Act cancel out. And now we have an interesting situation. I spoke to the head of the profile committee, Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohinim, and he correctly notes that this 90-360-day rule is provided for in the basic Act that entered into force, “On State Support for Domestic Airbuilding”. But, dear colleagues, where is the guarantee that once again, in the 2010 or 2011 Budget Act, all these preferences will not be stopped, and our domestic producer will again find himself in a non-competitive position with other manufacturers of similar technology? What does this bill offer? When we write to the Cabinet, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to install instead of 90 days in 360 days, i.e. this contract -- $400 million -- is an Indian contract to repair 160 AN-32 aircraft. We can't, Ukraine, do this contract without cooperation with Russian, for example, suppliers: titanium products, hot, stainless steel, well, special metals. Because Ukraine seems to have its own metallurgy, but it doesn't have the alloys it needs. Then we should order there. Dear colleagues, nine months of engine production, five months of aircraft production, five months of repair, and more rocket repairs. And they're being repaired into cooperatives. So, for 90 days, we've been constantly beating and our manufacturer's constantly paying for sanctions incomprehensible to whom, and it's not clear why, instead of going to pay higher wages and counting into our social sphere. That's why this bill is designed -- in a comparative table it's short -- it predicts one sentence. There, in Article 340: “The processing of goods outside the customs territory” – there can be no more than 90 days, we suggest: normally there can be no more than 360 days. This does not mean that tax or customs authorities do not have the right to control what happens to those currency resources that are paid or paid. Another example. If the aircraft or rocket engine needs to be repaired, which, for example, is located in Russia or other states, it may be that this assembly body is not suitable for us, the money paid, the goods are not returned, the goods need to be returned for processing. And things like that. The world is on the path of deeper collaboration and integration of production, especially in the field of high technology. Unfortunately, you and I have lost many not only manufacturing but also whole industries. Plane building, I'm sure, car building, shipbuilding, agricultural machinery got a chance. If we approach wisely and develop all the work that was done in the previous government, because it's no big deal when we're here from this rostrum, and we start complaining to each other now, who did what. We have to take everything positive, develop it. If you want, it's one bill and I'd call it anti-crisis, because it allows for the support of a domestic producer. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Names, please. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u39	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Mr. Jaroslav, you're talking very sweetly about how we need to integrate and understand with whom, with the northern neighbour, in order to save our aviation industry. And how can you comment on the fact that when I read in the paper, as Mr. Boguslav wept, otherwise I can't say that the Russians are building a factory under Moscow to release their engines. So the Russian authorities are acting not in such a way as to use Ukrainian labor, Ukrainian engineers, Ukrainian cooperatives, but to actually patch up a broken technology chain. So maybe we'd better think and think more deeply, and spend more money on making sure that Ukraine has the opportunity to maximize this technology chain to release its planes?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u40	Ivan Aleksandrovich, I'm going to answer my colleagues who are asking: Which factory were you working on? I want to remind you that Ivan Alexander the Hare took direct part in the first AN-140, the first AN-140, and the first AN-140, and the first AN-140, he was present at that time Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko and Stepan Ilkovich the Cloud. Too bad, more. more and Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Well, there were national deputies who were. What's this all about? You've touched on a wonderful subject. Look, well, the unique AN-70 plane, well, it can't be without cooperation. Why? Look, people, if AN-140 doesn't fly in the Ukrainian sky, no one will buy it anywhere. If there is no AN-70 in the Ukrainian sky, who will you sell it to? It takes circulation costs to run the series. For the cost of circulation, the state has to stop interfering and prying out fines, something that can and will not be snatched today. That's the first one. The second is about cooperation. I want you to have it. Well, Ivan Alexanderovich, you had the opportunity to go to Viacheslav Alexanderovich Boguslayev and ask him here what he was thinking. Remember, to build a plant for aircraft engines, you need to remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u41	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to thank you, Mr. Jaroslav, for preparing this bill. Unfortunately, not everyone has yet realized that this is not just about cooperation with the Russian Federation. It's about supplies and engines and other equipment, including the navigational equipment that we need to put on the ship right now, and that's why we've completely stopped all the ship repair plants today. Look at this: including this standard. So I'd like you not only to talk about airplanes, but I remind you that you gave an example of the Titan problem and so on. When the first MlH was produced in Ukraine, and MlH started producing in Kharkiv, if you'll recall, right? In Kharkiv, history, if you will. The Russians have already forgotten, and it is necessary for the Ukrainians to remember their history. Now the problem is a little bit of corruption, it's got to do with the Titan. Please also clarify the shipbuilding industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u43	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. As always, you have asked a profound question. You know, well, I'm just, I'm sorry that the plane building where I used to work, I got stuck. Well, for example, "Motor-Sichi" co-operation with "." is a Canadian company with "." is an American company. And you said navigational, that's Yuri Borisovich Krock, he can confirm that without this navigation, our ships are forbidden to enter the ports. Where does he take them? He's ordering. He ordered, it came, it didn't come, it had to be given. The bones are here. They didn't return to customs. Please pay your fines. So this is definitely an interesting problem. You know, I'm yelling because I'm excited because it's an airplane building, because it's a national branch. People, if we don't support a domestic manufacturer, who's gonna back him up besides us? Let's smile like Yuri Crook.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u44	Oleg Laszko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u45	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Mr. Suhi, don't shout, don't worry, because our faction will support this bill. Moreover, you will not once again go out and yell at the rostrum, wave your hands. So take care of your health. And for the aviation sector that you mentioned. It's nice that you, as a representative of the Party of Regions, are giving due respect to the government of Yulia Timoshenko, thanks to the support of which, in 2009, significant public budget costs were invested in the aviation sector, which allowed for the restoration, resuscitation and resuscitation of Kharkiv aviation companies, and the foreign sector, including the contracts you mentioned with India, are also the results of the work of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. And that's why we're going to support this bill. Because this bill by the author of Boguslayev and yours is about to develop, to restore aviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u46	Mr. Lazka, thank you very much for taking care of my nervous health. I can assure you that if you're on this rostrum, I'll pay you back the same, and I'll give you a couple of recommendations. And now, in this case, you know, you said the keyword, Yuri Anatolyevich was talking about the metallurgical complex. Dear colleagues, how did it happen that in Ukraine, with the production of titanium, we order titanium rings and equipment or. in Russia. How did this happen? But I don't care what those names are, I'm just asking you a question, it's more expensive. Listen, there's a factory in Zaporozhye called "Dniprostal". He used to make steel called revolver or weaponry, a special steel. He doesn't make it. I think these. Now, look at the way it was, remember Desertface and the Mining Metallurgical Experiment Act. Metallurgy as a locomotive has brought other fields behind it. We have a wonderful opportunity, machine-building can draw other areas, especially high-tech ones. This is the future of Ukrainian production.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u47	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u48	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Mr. Jaroslav, I will support this law in the first reading, but I would like you to answer two questions. The first question is, do we understand that any preference is a kind of a loophole for abuse? And tell me, please don't you see that we don't have such warnings that it's an additional way of abuse and it's not going to benefit the national economy. And the second. 365 days is good, but I'm going back to the Titan and to those titanium rings you're talking about, we're going to drive them back not to stimulate our own production. Whether there is a need to limit a list and who will do so by raising our own economy as much as possible, rather than just moving on to what is competitive, if we count, through wages and taxes, obviously we should support our own production. What do you propose to do about the second reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u49	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, I want to tell you that there is a rule in the world, there is a high-tech machine building in the world. If you're making an aviation engine, it's going to be on a Russian or an Indian or on an airplane or some other state is going to ask for a share of the job, so-called, and what it's going to do, there's some part of the production. But it's not a deep collaboration, what you said, it's a deep collaboration. I'll tell you that 90 or 10 days won't give it anything, so we don't stimulate what you said has to be beautiful, smart, planned, written, for example, by the program, by the Ukrainian titanium, or by the Ukrainian aluminum. You know, we buried the aluminum combination because we wanted to do good for Zaporozblanergo, the high price of aluminum, and aluminum folded its wings and titanium Magnesium barely breathes. So we certainly need to think about supporting the domestic manufacturer in all the technology chains. About the fact that there can be no violations here, maybe Sergey Anatolyovich Teryochin will speak after me, and he'll explain to you that all the preferences are written in time and. If you have a previous aircraft building law, and they predict both time and time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u50	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please sit down. Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, first of all, Mr. Dryma, you looked very organic in the background of bottles and corks, so look at it as it is, it's kind of looking out of the hall, you see, let's say. I have prepared a large report on this subject, and I will briefly say it in my own words. First of all, this law has no relation, Mr. Dry, to aircraft construction, because you and I passed a law on State support for aircraft construction that took effect a few months ago. It's a model law, it's a very good law. I'm just recommending, Mr. Head, as the author of the law on shipbuilding to recall it and look at that model law that we did in space and did in aircraft construction. The Space Act and the Airbuilding Act have been removed but not removed. Questions, as you rightly said, of rural engineering, of shipbuilding, or of other industries that have a high - speed or high - speed production cycle. Now, Mr. Matvienko's question is a very good question. If we homousally raise this term for processing, we're going to have a little bit of chicken all over the place, vodka and so on. So we need to go as we did in the airline bill, figure out the codes of goods that can be converted from a high level of value added in Ukraine to the term that is proposed. I remind you, let's say there's one inadequacy of this law, it's two years old and 24 days old today, it's been filed on March 4, last year, where it's written, let's say 365 days on the donor raw material. But you and I have decided to make monetary gains, both in aircraft construction and in space industry. How many days? 500. Really? And when we decided that there were 500 days, we used the same ideas that you used in 2008. So this is just enough to make some product ready. So the committee is proposing to build on this project. But I also propose to take this project away from me, but on the second reading, you and I will write separate codes in separate fields that need to be processed in Ukraine for a long period of time. The fact that this project is useful is absolutely 100 percent. Because it allows you to move the added value from abroad to Ukraine inside, collect taxes inside Ukraine, make employment bigger and make a better competition with foreign analogues. So on behalf of the committee, I'm asking you to base this project. I don't need a shorter term because it's difficult, I think we'll be dealing with this project in a month, and by July 1st, I remind you, the last deadline for amending tax legislation, I think we'll take it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u52	Thank you. Now, a question to the committee head. Please sign up. Ivan Hare, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u53	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. Dear reporter! The bill proposes to increase the processing of goods in customs territory and outside customs territory from 90 to 360 days. It is very difficult to apply this norm to certain specific goods, to specific areas, and so forth. Don't you think that this super liberal norm is going to lead to us not thinking about how to develop internal production, how to develop an internal market, and we're going to continue to work in the export-import option, which is actually going to destroy the Ukrainian economy, take away people from jobs and jobs and a lot of other negatives. It's better to take and take the software route. There's a program, for example, "The Flight of Ukraine," so let's think very carefully about the Cabinet of Ministers and write these terms down. There's a program like the release of the Ukrainian combine, so let's do a particular record. Better this way, the management approach than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u54	Frankly, I didn't understand the question. Well, I can interpret it this way, rather than better from the State budget of Ukraine, at the expense of taxpayers, to grant a subsidy to grow bananas in Ukraine. What are you talking about?Oh, my God! If there's international cooperation, if it's cheaper to buy something abroad than, rather than, I'm sorry, than spend taxpayers' money in the middle of the country, why not do it. What's more, I'm sorry, we have a major idea: it's the occupation of Ukrainian people. If Ukrainian people are to be employed, we need to support exports of Ukrainian products abroad in any way. Because once again, the main idea is to take away the added value, the added value here, into this territory, because the added cost gives you the opportunity to work, pay for budget and development. [[You didn't hear me, and now you're not listening.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u56	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! I fully share your view that the valid standard of the 232 Customs Code is a barrier to the development of high-tech manufacturing. And I wanted to ask you, your vision, maybe when we adopt the law, you have to take into account what we've already adopted and where we've written 500 days, because it's 500 days, and for these codes, you have to write not the 365, but the 500.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u57	Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u58	Because they just need some kinds of turbines, something else that can't or should not be done several times, a few partitions to cross the border, or maybe for space to produce. Do you foresee that we will complement this law with those standards not only for 365 days but also for 500 days? That's one part of the question right now. And the second part of the question. Whether or not to be involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, once again, the essence of this law is to harmonize with those laws of the branch that, the two that we have adopted, are in space activities and aircraft construction. Plus, we will make the same model laws that do not conflict with our international obligations to shipbuilding and agricultural machinery. And let's agree on these standards so that, well, obviously, if you get 500 days of profit, you can't get a lower rate on temporary import because you get 500 days. Plus, I'd like to point out that we're going to have to do very well, Mr. Suhi, let's join this work, because you've proposed amendments to the Customs Code. But we do have a special law, called D.O.R. Operations. And now it's against the Customs Code, it's out of date. So let's change it. And what you put.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u60	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the bill. Please register with the factions, and now with the national MPs. Names, please. Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! In fact, this law has no attitude toward politics. This has to do with Ukraine's economy alone. And I really wanted people who were going to be doing anything in their lives, and they were doing industrial production, not politics. In fact, it's about high-tech industries, high-tech industries that, without substantial cooperation with foreign companies, in fact, cannot survive and are uncompetitive in foreign markets. In fact, it is very necessary to invest in money. We talk enough about metallurgy, but metallurgy is what? It's half the raw material, not more than that. It's a pit in Ukrainian soil and it's a bad environment that stays here. Never will metallurgy pull out the entire complex of the Ukrainian economy. The building, shipbuilding, aircraft building, and other high - tech industries that will provide work, including a metallurgical complex. And we're not going to export our metallurgy in plums and other such preparations, but we're going to produce some high-productive, high-alloy steel and so on and so forth. The point is, for today, we need to look at the external markets. What our neighbors do. State. And actually, if you look at Russia, they're definitely going through this exact period of customs. And we, Ukraine, remain no competition with Russia. This was about military contracts. And it's clear that we're competing with the same Russia in all the external markets: both Iraq, India, and elsewhere, and today, without such preferences, and there are no normal conditions for work to talk about the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy. In fact, each bracelet invested in a high-tech machinery complex in Ukraine gives hundreds of dollars in the gross and domestic product of Ukraine, because it raises compatible industries, it raises raw materials, and in fact all the added value stays within Ukraine, people get wages, they pay income tax, and local budgets can guide the socio-economic system in their territories. Dear friends, in fact, such an extension could always be obtained, but it was necessary to carry a “cage” to the Mineconomy and it was always possible to get 360 days for this “cage”. What I'm saying is that this is exactly what puts the collapse of the wages that we're talking about so much. Of course, the law needs work. And I'm convinced that those remarks that were made by both the chairman of the committee and the colleagues who asked the question, we can bring it to the second reading and accept it as a whole. Today, I would like to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u62	Sergey Pavlenko, the “Block of Lithuania” faction refers the right to speak to Sergey Tereshuk. Please. Next will be Alexy Plotnikov
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u63	Respectful colleagues, without Ukraine’s participation, of Ukrainian enterprises in the world’s production or industrial or economic output, do not have to rely on economic distortions. It's very hard to start from scratch the development of some sector, some direction, because it's an investment, it's technology. We already remember how we tried, with a strong missile field, to make a Ukrainian tractor that was not available, to try to make a Ukrainian combo and to collect money from the budget, and nothing came out. And a respected foreign company just won't come to Ukraine and start manufacturing. There are steps. You can first assign something small to produce, the wheel begins, and then you can move a large production here. I'm not talking about high technology anymore. I'm talking about airplane construction. So in detail, even seed production, this is about agriculture, in 90 days, you can't produce, in such terms, seed companies abroad in Ukraine that they want to produce. Therefore, legislation needs to be changed. Opponents may note that the Customs Code allows the Cabinet of Ministers to make changes and allow a longer term. But you know, the honourable colleagues behind this, how much it takes to walk through the Cabinet of Ministers, how many letters it takes to write, to go out to get this permission. Absolutely right, Mr. Terjohin, who noted that it would not be possible to approach and allow the entire product for 360 days, because this would significantly reduce budget revenues. So in general, our faction suggests a balanced approach. To adopt a bill in the first reading, to work out, to take into account the comments made in this rostrum, which will be in the National Deputies, in order to make a civilized law that will allow Ukrainian enterprises to participate in the world co-operation of production and agriculture and industrial and scientific production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u64	Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u65	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I want to support this bill. Given that, first of all, it was designed to take into account the new edition of the Customs Code, what is not technological for 90 days was proved by a colleague of Suhi. Although Suhi’s colleague considered this only on the example of airplane construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u66	We didn't look at it. We didn't look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u67	But this also has to do with other sectors, other businesses that work not only in aviation but also in other sectors of the national economy. What's proposed to increase the term from 90 days to 360 days is absolutely positive. If you touch, well, some macroeconomic factors, that's one of the important things to do is to increase production, increase jobs, increase efficiency, well, and many other positions just like this macroeconomic, promising level. So I propose to support this bill in the first reading on the basis and to allow colleagues, to enable all interested persons to make additions, comments, including those proposed by colleague Terjochin. That is, it is perfectly normal when some comments are made after the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u68	Yuri Prokopchuk, fraction of BUTT, please. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u69	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues! The importance of this bill is perhaps in the very strategy of developing all the industries mentioned here. And I would like, as a person who, well, knows what aviation is, at least they say, 20 years later, if we're going to take very far what it started, by the way, I thank you for your position, Julia Timoshenko and her government, supporting this program, there should be no politics here. Because such scientific processes, such long processes, and complex processes, intellectual processes, manufacturing processes that are primarily related to aircraft construction, space, need immediate support. Prompt Support for Why? Because each delay in this basket is a distance from the global trend. Around the world, Europe, in particular, is moving in this direction, and areas such as aviation and space need immediate solutions, otherwise we'll be forever behind. So I urge everyone in the first reading to vote in favour of this bill and to proceed to the vote immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u70	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. John the Rabbit will be next. The right to speak to John the Rabbit is given by Yuri Costenko, so it will be 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u71	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposed is indeed a reformer. And I want to remind you of the steps we've been taking here. In order to preserve the aviation sector at all, and I remind you that at first they wanted to destroy and take the buildings of the Kyiv Air Force; the Kharkiv Air Force, which was in the center of the city of Kharkiv, and there was a runway, they wanted to build houses there because it was the center of the city, the glory of God to stand still, and the glory of God that then the government of Timoshenko had enough brains not to block the holes, not to give money right away, but to invest these costs, to go, to make arrangements in some countries, and this enabled us today to raise and, let's say, to stabilize these branches. But this does not mean that we have done everything we can to develop them. I'll call you that. In Szczecin, this is the former territory of Germany and the current territory of Poland, where once fascist Germany built up to 10 submarines for 1 month! Think about it! We are now a single submarine, the “Zaprzeża” can't be equipped with battery batteries – and it turns out that we didn't buy them exactly the right way – we can't, we can't, we can't have 10 boats coming out! Thus, in Szczecin, Poland, our fishing trawlers Valerius Kravchenko, Boris Derevyanko were now undergoing capital repair and restocking. [[in the name of the murdered Valery Kravchenka]] [[also in honor of the murdered Boris Derevyanka]] And I asked myself why. But because it's cheaper there, because there's no such thing as a dragon norm that we need to cancel now. Therefore, honourable national MPs, this bill should be adopted, bearing in mind that we should start and continue to produce and continue the production of those famous “Mira” and “Ruslan” planes, which no one has ever done. And we need to rebuild the shipbuilding industry, we need to restore the power plant. And then these cities -- and now I've looked at what cities this law is going to be directly touching -- this is also Herson, this is Mikolayev, this is Odessa and Ilchiyevsky, this is Feodosia and Kerch, this is Kiev and Kharkiv, this is Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Mariupol and Lugansk. That's kind of a geography. And more than 50 factories where this bill can be distributed. So let's take it, I call. This is really going to be a progressive bill. And in some places it's going to take 500 days to write it down, not 360 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u72	Ivan Hare, six minutes in your possession, Ivan Alexanderovich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u73	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Honourable national MPs, the proposed changes to the Customs Codex of Ukraine may seem like purely technical changes. Because only one digit changes, from 90 days to 360 days. This is specifically about the period of processing goods in the customs territory of Ukraine and outside the customs territory of Ukraine. In fact, this amendment has strategic significance, and what I heard here, from many of the speakers in this room, just surprised me. When, for example, Deputy Terjohin says that we need to buy more products from abroad, if it's cheaper. So don't you know, Mr. Terrohin, that we're going to find in the world any state that is better producing one or another product, but no state in the world is going to buy everything from abroad. Each state, and today the European Union states, want 70 to 80 percent of the potential of a nation — labour, industrial, natural — to target domestic production, to build an internal market, and only 20 percent or 15 percent of it — to export and import supplies. Because it's the internal market that guarantees the stability of the economy. Internal production itself allows businesses to make profits and to have jobs. And if we're going to take Ukraine to a raw material supplement, we have to implement this doctrine that was stated here: we buy everything from abroad, if it's cheaper. It's a totally wrong doctrine. I'll tell you, people's deputies, that in the first parliament, when the MPs thought in the state, the government then started more than a thousand programs for producing ready-made, high-tech products. It was also about his helicopter, it was about airplanes, it was about his combine, and a lot of other things. Someone here was talking about something to start with. We used to release 70 percent of the complex details to the Level combine, with engines only. Wasn't that the basis for a modern combine? And today we had a fifth - generation combo. But no, we have these liberals who wanted to buy these combines either in the West or in the East, to invest in the development of other nations, other than the same economies, not in the development of their economy. So let's face it, we need a number one problem today -- it's developed by our own manufacturer, and it's going to be a minimum, a certain menu for the production of high-tech products. If you look at the democratic states of Europe, you see that every developed state has one or more parts of a car. If you look at these democratic states, you'll see that each of these countries has a field in producing some kind of information electronic product, each of these countries has almost a machine-building system. Now, we don't ask that question today, but we're asking questions about how to sink ourselves with imports, kill an internal manufacturer and end it with high-tech manufacturing. What is this, and what does it do for us? It's de-intellectualization, because people don't need high education, they don't need an engineer, they don't need high technology. So let's go back to that phrase, "Buy Ukrainian." The slogan “Buy Ukrainian” is only the final word in the chain of serious reflection. If we don't have Ukrainian goods, we have to produce them. And then when we talk about increasing this term of processing goods in customs territory, we have to adapt this figure somehow to one sector or another. Because for rural machinery, there must be one term, another term for airplane construction, but for information products there must be another term. Because you know perfectly well what we have in the Soviet Union? That we updated military technology about 10 to 20 years later. And the technology that was built was updated in the same way 10-20 years later. At a time when in that cursed democratic, as someone says, the world and the state-of-the-art technology was updated about four to six months later. We're the ones that have to go through the dynamics of the economy to ensure the development of our nation. So I think this bill is going to have to be adopted, but in the second reading, it needs to be adapted to this strategy for the development of our industries right at the point where the internal market is being built, right at the point where domestic production is being built. And so to think strategically, to think that Ukraine should be a high-tech state, that we not only have to use our transit and potential, but also the scientific potential, the potential of a highly educated workforce, to use the tools that we had before. And if someone thinks that science has been sitting around for 15 or 20 years and has done nothing, you too are deeply wrong. There are always people who think no matter what the future of the nation, think about the future of their country, and there are such developments in Ukraine, the question is only for the authorities to take these developments, to integrate them into programs and to produce such products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u74	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u75	I want to calm John Alexanderovich, the authorities will take over and do what they can for the people. I want to push away from the last of these Jaroslav Suhogo, which is, in fact, the active authority in charge of President Viktor Yanukovic's leadership aims at resuscitation of the real economy sector, ensuring dynamic growth, economic growth and further conversion to raising social standards in the lives of the people. The project has been prepared with the aim of resolving the issues raised by the entry into force of a new edition of the Ukrainian Customs Code, and it is not technically justified to set a time limit for the processing of goods in and outside the customs territory of Ukraine for no more than 90 days. This is confirmed by numerous government orders to extend processing periods, so it is proposed to set a deadline for processing goods in and outside the customs territory of Ukraine within 360 days. The law is designed to create conditions for the efficient use of the productive, scientific and technical potential of the domestic economy, which will protect the economic interests of Ukraine and Ukrainian entrepreneurs. The bill proposes to amend the Customs Code of Ukraine and to increase the processing of goods in and outside the customs territory of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to create more favourable conditions for business operators operating in the processing of goods and supporting the priority sectors of the national economy. The adoption of the proposed draft Ukrainian law will have a number of positive factors. First, it will ensure the restoration and creation of new jobs. Second, it will create a real opportunity to resupply industrial enterprises. Third, it will increase production volume. Fourthly, it will increase the export potential of the domestic economy. The adoption of the draft law is an important step towards improving Ukraine’s legislative base in the field of external economic activity and customs. The faction of the Party of the Regions calls on the session hall to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. Final word, please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I sincerely thank you for your interesting conversation, for your professional conversation, for the conversation that I am sure will give us all the opportunity to make the right conclusions, and for the second reading to adopt such a bill as Sergey Anatoliyovich said, which will harmonize, I would now just like to remind you of what I did not say that I should say in the closing word. The bill is in line with the convention that we ratified with you, the convention on simplification and harmonization of customs procedures that Sergey Anatoliyovich spoke about. In line with article 2 of the chapter of the first convention mentioned, nothing prevents the contracting party from making the terms more favourable than those provided for them. And each of the contractors is recommended as much as possible to give more favorable conditions as possible, as an example, sorry that I've been talking about aircraft construction for a long time, I've been working at the factory. Now I can give you an example of automobile construction, when the car base has been stuck for a long time and it's got 50% localization of production 50 plus 1 and it allows them to export their product, Ukrainian product with added tax value and all that. Dear colleagues! Remember Ukrainian armored equipment, our BTR is the best in the world, our Bulat is the best in the world, and we've sold it and we'll sell it. And the last two examples, I just got a phone call from the engine sich plant that won the competition "" and the Kazan AN-SA helicopter will be setting up our Ukrainian MS-500 engine. He needs to be put there, tried there, turned back, and so it is quite clear that such a bill is necessary. Thank you all for sharing in the discussion. Please vote “in favour”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u78	Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! We had a very interesting discussion. I'd like to add, let's say you remember who was on the third call, we made a decision about a Pakistani tank project -- where the processing went much more, let's say, repairs of tanks delivered from India and then back from the Kharkiv tractor factory. The same is true for civilian automobile construction. That's why we need to take this project. But, dear fellows, I urge you, if such a project is coming, you don't have to politicize it. I might remind you again that two key laws of this kind were adopted by the former Prime Minister of Yulia Timoshenko in the third, sixth and eighth levels. So let's not say here, Mr. Chechetov, who will do what! That's the first one. And second. I'm talking to Mr. Hare, who's already gone, and I just want to remind him that according to his ideology, I want to give him my draft Salo Law, which was registered three years ago on April 1, which envisioned a ban on the introduction of halls into Ukraine, because the hall is Ukrainian acquisition and the possibility of moving halls from Ukraine, if that is the hall of a crown. So these economic categories, of course, you can't think. Please accept the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt a bill on the basis and in general, I will put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on Processing Periods. Registration number 2163. Please vote. [[17:42:04]] For 353 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you need him, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, you need to work on that, right? All of it then. Dear colleagues, the request that we consider another draft document is a draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax of Persons. [[on taxation of charitable assistance]] Registration number 2043, National Deputy of Ukraine Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. And with the opportunity, let's welcome Valery Mikhailovich and the Paralympics, who at the Paralympic Games showed how to protect the honour of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u81	Dear friends, dear colleagues, I want to say that this victory is my absolute conviction, the acquisition and cooperation of all of us. Because sports always brought us together, and there were never any political preferences in sports. Thank you, we win together! Now let me report on Bill 2043, which we wrote with Bodnar Olga Borisovna. And I'd like a short episode, my dear friends, to talk about my political activity, which illustrates, in fact, the concept of this law. In one of my trips, when I was on my way, I was told that two rural disabled people would meet me on the road. In fact, I became part of a family of rural disabled, severely disabled people. To be honest, he was shocked at how they survive in the village of two of these -- a couple who have, one of them had a very severe disability. And they came to me with a request that the state could not issue them a very specialized wheelchair, which was foreseen by Ukrainian legislation. Because this wheelchair lacked funds in the transfer budget according to Ukrainian legislation. I was so impressed by this family of rural disabled people that I decided to raise funds, and we bought a wheelchair, costing about 20,000 and a half thousand dollars. It's a heavy cart, and it's very specialized. We gave this cart to this rural family. The head of the district administration came, and we applauded. We were happy for this family. You know, I was amazed when, a month later, they found my phone, they called and said, "Dear MP, come and get this cart." I say: “What happened?” She came in tax and said: “The taxes on this wheelchair have been collected. Pay the State for this cart.” That's the story. Dear friends! Today, rehabilitation costs, medical supplies, and prosthetics are between 30 and 60 percent of what is required by legislation. These are the sad realities that exist today. And today, if any of you should want to support a disabled person with a wheelchair, with eye braces, with endoprothesis, with medical devices, he'll have to think about how a disabled person will pay a tax for you instead of a state to help him. The State places the disability on the means of rehabilitation and prosthesis that it owes to the disability. Such a paradoxical fact is in our legislation. Dear colleagues! I wrote a bill listing the means of rehabilitation that the State is obliged to grant a disability by law. If, instead of the State, the State did not give, and instead of the State, some charity aided in the form of a means of rehabilitating prosthetic drugs, the State should not tax a disabled person on this remedy. On returning to that rural family of two disabled persons, I raised funds for charity and paid taxes to the state instead of those with disabilities for failing to issue this wheelchair according to the law. I am addressing you, at the end of the working day, to support this bill, which is the reality of today, the reality that, unfortunately, no one in Ukraine can help a disabled person unless the state has helped him. And if he helps, the disabled will suffer, and he will have to pay a tax on what the State owes him. Please support and help in this regard in view of the fact that there is an absolute deficit in the social needs of persons with disabilities. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? None. Thank you, sit down, please. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, the committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, in order to save your time, the committee voted in favour of adopting this bill as a basis, but with two warnings. First warning. Sadly, this bill has reemerged underpriced goods. These second - reading items should be cleaned up. Secondly, unfortunately, because of the non-institution of insurance, we don't have the rules that exempt from taxation, let's say, transactions that collect money for a sick child or a sick person are passed on under the VAT Act should be taxed by 15 percent on the issue. So on the second reading, we're proposing to expand the list of people who can receive charity aid for a purpose, not a goal, but a tax, as always, except for tax. And to address the issue of taxation of charitable aid, primarily through the Ministry of Health system and primarily our children. So there's a request from the committee to take the basis for this project and to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! If you need to discuss a bill, one minute. We, let's be an MP now and then. Sergey Anatolyevich, please sit down. If there is a need for discussion, please write it down. Well, let's check it out now. If you don't, you don't. I would ask briefly if we could conclude our consideration of the matter today. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction. Please. After that, Sergei Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u85	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, Head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Well, indeed, the question that is being asked today is indeed a problem. Let us be honest with ourselves that one of us who wants to help solve the problem that there is is is looking for arguments in favor of solving the problem. Those who do not want to decide find the exact opposite. Indeed, sadly, the example that has been given today may not be all - encompassing, but things like this happen to us. It is not enough that the State does not fulfill its obligation, especially in the case of a disabled person, but if someone else tries to solve this problem, it also adds to the punishment of either the recipient or the person who provides material assistance. And that's why I'm absolutely convinced that this problem needs to be solved. It may be necessary to take into account the warnings made by the PIC, but this little problem needs to be addressed. And so the faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to vote in favour of this document in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u86	Sergei Tereshuk, microphone, please. Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u87	Honorable colleagues, to the extent that civilized society in the world is determined by how in the state, society treats elderly people, pensioners, children, and just how they treat people with disabilities. In what conditions are disabled people living in our country and Europe, we know. And there are objective, subjective reasons. But today, in short, Ukraine cannot create normal conditions for those who cannot protect themselves. It is very good that there are entrepreneurs, very good that there are people who care about them, very well that there are businesses that are trying to help, that are not indifferent to human misery. And there's a problem, there's a problem with the giver, because he's doing profit relief. And there's a problem with who they give it to. So an enterprise, helping a disabled person, should think about how to make money to help and how to help pay taxes. Clearly, there is a point to the bill. There are no ideal bills. But still, let's give this last bill that we're going to vote on today, let's say it's not a political bill -- it's a humane, social bill. Let's vote, and the inadequacies and the comments that there are, when we prepare for the second reading, we eliminate them and make those changes that will allow us to make a law that will not allow us to find any loopholes, sins in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u88	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u89	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill is written by the head of our Paralympic Assembly, who made us consult for our state, who took out 19 athletes and got 19 medals -- that's an indicator. 19 athletes – 19 medals! I'm applauding with you, too, and I want to tell you that there's nothing wrong with that bill, or in that list that you've just said, there's no excise goods. It's all about cars with manual driving, that's the first. And secondly, the law directly states that if a disabled person is removed from the budget account for special transport. And you know, you take people in and you know that we now have 10 years ahead of schedule that the state can't pay and can't afford this special transport, it's absolutely necessary. Moreover, there is a guarantee in this bill. The guarantee is: categories of disabled persons and children with disabilities, lists of technical and other means of rehabilitation, medical devices, car stamps listed in this sub-paragraph, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So the government itself is developing rules by which this law is actually being implemented. So the fuses are perfectly normal. As a result of what we are with you, I would like to say that it was the Supreme Council of the Law on the Income Tax of Natural Persons that made the charitable aid given to persons with disabilities to provide technical and other means of rehabilitation, the products of a medical assignment that became subject to general taxation, then, of course, the payment of the tax worsened the material status of the disabled, and sometimes made it impossible for them to receive the benefit at all. And so this is not going to happen, this bill is being proposed. And as we have now voted in 363 votes to amend our industry's development, to amend the Customs Code, I think we should also now adopt the Law on the Income Tax of Persons. Let's take it in the first reading. If there are any colleagues from the profile committees that are there, you have to write down some kind of fuse, in my opinion, this fuse, where the government defines both order and brand of cars and medical supplies, enough. So I propose to adopt the law and thank Mr. Suškević and colleague Bodnar for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u90	Yes, please, the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u91	Thank you. The position of the Ministry of Finance is that the Ministry of Finance bill is not supported. Why? In general, we believe that it is necessary to encourage the provision of charity, but not directly from charity to recipient, but through a fund of social assistance for people with disabilities. There's a right-wing coalition here. According to Ukraine's laws on the basis of social protection for persons with disabilities in Ukraine, as well as the Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, there is a rule that funding for measures for the social protection of persons with disabilities and children with disabilities is carried out exclusively at the expense of state funds, including the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities and Local Budgets, and not at the expense of charitable contributions. Because the first position needs to be changed, if this position is supported, to these laws. The other one. The bill does not contain the responsibility of the benefactors and natural persons, the recipient of the benefit, for receiving the benefit without legal basis. What do we propose? We propose to reject this law, but make suggestions. We are prepared to be with the developers in order to build a special fund in the Social Protection Fund to accumulate funds that come in as a charity. And then, because there are special, individual rehabilitation programs in this fund, there are procedures available and there are procedures under which people with disabilities are already provided with this benefit. And if we record that the list of funds is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, we have duplication, on the one hand, we have such a mechanism in the Social Protection Fund when the funds are being distributed, and on the other hand, that the Cabinet of Ministers have a separate mechanism for the administration of these charitable contributions. So our proposal, the second one, is that this charity fund should accumulate separately and be a source to help people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! We continue our session until the question is concluded, that is, not more than 15 minutes. Valerius Suškević, please conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u93	Dear colleagues! I really want to see that when the country's State budget for this year is being considered, we see a percentage of the number on insurance, wheelchairs, medical supplies and everything that's provided for by law. Unfortunately, I'm sure that's not going to happen and today's charity law, it's going to provide help for the socio-unprotected. That's the first one. Second, what's concerned with graphs is the social welfare fund for charity. Dear colleagues, let's understand that we, each of you, will not be able to provide charity to a particular person, we will have to put these funds into the fund, and there will be a government official, whom we trust with certainty, to decide who gets the cart for your money. So I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance very much, but I would like to support that every person, if the state did not provide a disability, could support the disabled by means of rehabilitation. Please support the government budget deficit to complement the help of people who want to help people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The position of the government towards your knowledge has been proven, and the position of the committee and the author is well known. The committee's proposal was to propose a bill for adoption as a basis. At the same time, I draw the attention of the drafters of the bill and the committee that the date is out of date – January 1, 2009. If the Supreme Council supports the bill, it will be necessary to postpone the introduction of the law. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax from Natural Persons. [[on taxation of charitable assistance]] [[Registration number 2043]] [[18:01:34]] For 237 [[Applause]] By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 2, the Block of July Timoshenko – 143, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 45, the Communists – 27, the Block of Lithuania – 19, the non-factional – 1. Peter Cibenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u95	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. I would like to address the distinguished representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who has come and is not listening to what is happening in the hall. I'm again addressing the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, you know, what you're actually saying is that you're offering, the Social Protection Fund is a trust fund. Its budget is shaped by fines and incomes for job creation and is used for the same purpose. What do you suggest? Can I help you to get there? I'm not saying that recently, in the Cabinet of Ministers, there's been a practice of financing the maintenance of rehabilitation centers at the expense of the Social Protection Fund, which is a shame, in fact, to save the drowning -- in the case of the drowning hands themselves. How can we do that? You're suggesting that you don't understand what you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. What's up, Suškevitch? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u97	Thank you. I join in with what my esteemed colleague Cibenko said. In fact, this is a completely abnormal norm. And I want to look to our regional faction colleagues, and I've approached the faction leadership, and I want to say, you know, ladies where there are socialists and there's no politics, let's not do this policy! Let's understand that helping people is not politics -- it's social support for people who need help today in a difficult state for the country. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-30-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, and tomorrow we will continue our plenary work at 10 a.m.
