ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:01:00]] 293 national deputies are registered in the session hall. The morning session is open. Allow me to provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on June 16, 2010. In all, 22 issues of the agenda have been considered, two bills have been sent to the Committee for Re-reading, two bills have been reverted to the subject of the legislative initiative, eight bills and two draft decrees have been rejected. Let's hope we have a more productive day and better results today. Let us now consider the order of the day. A draft regulation on the release of Popov from office of Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 6529]] You, dear colleagues, know that Popov Alexander Pavlovich has been appointed as the first deputy head of the Kiev City Administration, so the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing that he be released from office in connection with the transition to another job. I'm voting on the draft Order on the Liberation of Popov from the post of Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:02:54]] For 216 [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. Region Party – 142, “Block Timoshenko” – 16, “Our Ukraine” – 9, “National Self-Defense”. “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 9, Communists – 26, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-factional – 4. Dear colleagues, I understand that you're still under the impression of a faction meeting, but I would like to remember that Thursday, unlike all other days, is Tuesday when the factions come out. factions' representatives, Wednesdays, when the word is due to MPs, Fridays, when we listen to the "hour of questions from the government" and requests from the national MPs – Thursday we start a job called "out of the chariot", that is, we need to be ready immediately. I'm voting on the motion to return to the vote of draft decree number 6529. Please vote. [[10:04:18]] For 240 240, we're back. Now I'm putting to the vote a draft regulation on the release of Popov O.P. from the Ukrainian Minister of Housing and Housing. Please vote. [[10:04:46]] For 244 Thank you, the decision is made. Well, I'm sure you can understand why it didn't work out from the first move. Because we all know Alexander Pavlovich as our colleague recently, who has worked productively, we know as the prime minister, he has held this position twice, and let us wish Alexander Pavlovich fruitful work in a responsible position in the capital of our state. [[Applause]] The question of the appointment of Hivrich as Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine is being considered, and I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janovich Azarov. [[Registration number 6530]] Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! According to article 85, part 12, and article 114, part 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes the appointment of Hivrich Yuri Yegorovich as Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine. Please support this offer from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u3	Thank you, Milo Yanovich. The candidate for the post of Minister Yuri Yegorovich is present. Please. Shall we vote? I'm voting on the proposal: the draft Decision on the appointment of Hivrich Yuri Yegorovich Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, registration number of the decree number 6530. Please vote. [[10:06:54]] For 249 Decision taken. Let's welcome Yuri Yegorovich to a high-level public office and wish us success in an extremely complex area of housing and utility. The draft decree on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters is being followed. [[B in m in s a l in]] He can announce it, maybe. The statement is written to the Head of the Supreme Council, so wait until the Chief of the Supreme Council comes forward, I'll make a statement. The chairman is announced, but it is written to the presiding officer, not to the absent Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u4	Block it, block it, but at any rate you have to write not under the copier of the statement, but you have to write the statements then. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I would like to stress once again, I would like you to read the Rules, it says: the chairman to write a statement. A statement was made to the Head of the Supreme Council. You are well aware that the Head of the Supreme Council is now on his way. So please, two factions of Timoshenko, the Block of Timoshenko and the block of “Our Ukraine” require a 30-minute recess on issues of considerable social interest. A break of up to 10 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u5	Yes, please, who of the factions who took the break makes a statement to Michael Volodymyr. Jury's stall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, chairman! And everyone in the audience, just as good a day! I don't know how good it's going to be for Ukrainian journalism and for media outlets, if now, speaking of the important state of freedom of speech, there aren't enough deputies in this room. That's the first one. And the second is that these deputies aren't in principle ready to listen to what they've just heard from this high rostrum about the state of freedom of speech. Thank you to all your colleagues for paying very close attention to the problem that is constantly being stressed by MPs both from coalition parties and from opposition parties. Now, about that question that I'm now privileged to talk about. The committee at its meeting decided unanimously to set up a commission that would sound as follows. the title of which was as follows: the interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of cases of censorship in the media, the pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine and the obstruction of the legitimate professional activities of journalists. We know that at the same time, my colleague, Mrs. Bogoslovska, is introducing an alternative commission that sounds completely different: investigating the work of the regulatory body, which is the National Council on Television and Radio. With regard to these two committees. As far as I can see, one committee voted on by all the members of all the factions on this committee, the other committee is totally on the subject of me, incomprehensible, a commission that should probably study the functioning of all regulators throughout Ukraine's independence. Perhaps such a commission is also needed. But we're all talking in the same voice on the committee about what a commission is needed to investigate the state of freedom of speech. Because TV journalists have been told for days that they are being monitored. Since the guards of the President of Ukraine beat up a TV channel journalist, please tell me, how do these cases relate to any regulatory authorities? So the proposal from the two factions is very simple: let's take this question out of the agenda, the committee is calling for a redesign of its decision on the interim commission of inquiry, we're working on it, we're putting it into the hall. And I hope that there will be good will, because once again, all the factions are represented on the committee. And if that doesn't happen, then the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is withdrawing its candidacy from the interim commission of inquiry proposed by Mrs. Bogoslovska, because we think it's not just pressure, it's debate over it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u8	We think it's not just the pressure, it's the debate over freedom of speech. The factions of democracy in this Parliament, the people who fight for freedom of speech to exist, at least from the first day of Ukraine's independence, will not participate in this massacre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to this question when we're discussing committee issues. There are certain moments and approaches, and I think we'll find a way out with you. We have another mission to perform, before the break, we have appointed you as Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine Yuri Yegorovich Hivrich. According to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers is sworn in at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Only after making an oath does the minister become a minister, so I invite Yuri Yegorovich to make an oath on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u10	I, Hivrich Yuri Yegorovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u11	Thank you, Yuri Yegorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u12	Thank you so much for trusting me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u13	Thank you. Yes, we continue the meeting. I am announcing a draft regulation on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the legality of decision-making by the National Council of Ukraine on television issues and radio talk on the conduct of competitions and the establishment of language licenses for winners in 2005-2010. [[reshape]] [[Registration number 6521]] But the honourable colleagues, in the materials distributed, are unfortunately not yet fully in this commission. I mean, you know, it's not the same thing that the Head of the Supreme Council once said that he would sign the creation of a commission just when there was a personal warehouse. Unfortunately, the factions of the "Timoshenko Block", "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" did not submit to this committee their representatives, this is one moment. One second. Yesterday, after I met the committee's first deputy chairman, Andriy Shevchenko, he also spoke about the issue that the factions had been raising for 30 minutes. We had a language, and I think we should probably try to compromise here. So you and I don't make two committees out of the same question again, but unfortunately, we used to have this practice, and you know how these two committees ended up with the same minister. So it's not that we're making one commission now, because there are 150 votes, in half an hour we're creating a second commission, because there are also 150 votes, and as a result of the question that we're all yelling, we're all saying that we need to figure out, and we're actually creating a temporary commission of inquiry, and we're going to be left with a question of squabbles between two commissions: who's in charge and who's listening. So please, I'd like to ask the faction leaders and the profile committee to accept this proposal. I'd like to put off for an hour right now, for a second consideration of this issue. When you're ready for an agreed project, I'd like to ask that the actual project of the Divine can be expanded, the commission authority, that is, you want to explore more than the licenses -- no questions, let's expand the duties or mandates of this commission. We're going to form from all the factions, according to the quota, the required number of members of the commission, and we're going to accept the agreed version of one commission that we're going to expect to produce a positive result. If we're going to create the second commission now, and we're not going to create the first one, because there's no way. So as soon as you're ready, an hour from now, an hour from now, 14 from now, 16 from now. When the composition and authority of the commission are ready, we will consider it with you. I'm giving a task to the profile committee and to the drafters. So far, the drafter of the bill is one: Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovska, for the time being. So far he doesn't exist in the session room. Yes, but he's not here. Please, let's exchange a minute from that and move on. Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we do not mind making this compromise, but I would like us in the Hall to understand what is going on. There is one commission that has been officially registered, which has undergone the full procedure, according to our rules. And there's no reason, Adam Ivanovich, you don't have to ask questions about the vote on this commission right now. There is a second desire to set up a commission, and we also understand that desire. But you prepare the documents because this is the rule of law and vote in favour of this commission, it is your right, there is no problem in this matter. At the same time, I would like our colleagues not to frame the facts, because they say that we have submitted any nominations, we have submitted the nominations to the commission of the one referred to by our colleague, Shevchenko, under a completely different name. There was one candidate. They seized the list, dragged it out and put it on the commission, which was totally wrong. I do not want our colleagues to do the same, Adam Ivanovich. We're ready to go for a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u16	and wait, but we would like to stress that the commission headed by the Divine Head has undergone all the procedures and has been approved in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Rules Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u17	Yes, please log in from other factions per minute, except for the Party of the Regions. Yes, Andrew Shevchenko. Sasu, right? Please, Sasu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Adam Ivanovich, I wanted you to listen. I strongly disagree with the thought expressed by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov in this situation, because there is reason to believe that the committee's passing through the committee is not in compliance with the Rules. The point is that according to article 85 of the Rules, the initiator refers to MP factions who direct candidates within a five - day period. Such a request was sent on June 14, and on June 15, the Commission of Inquiry was already registered. That is, the five - day term given by the faction for the nomination has been violated. In this case, there was an unprecedented case when the chairman of our committee, replacing the initiator's factions, asked the faction to send the candidates. I'm saying there are no proposals from the MP factions for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u20	Yeah, you took some time. Next, I say that Inesa Hermanovna cannot today be the chairman of this committee under the Rules, because she may certainly be the object of initiating the commission, but she cannot be a member of the commission and head. Why? Because the candidates for the commission of inquiry are sent to the faction. She is not a member of the faction today. And groups of non-fractional National Deputies have not yet been established in accordance with the Rules; they do not include 15 National Deputies, as provided for by the Rules, and therefore are not subject to the nomination of the Commission of Inquiry. I'd like to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Moses Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u22	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please give the word to Chef Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u23	Roman Zvaric, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all I will speak in detail. We support the proposal that a commission be set up. on a general consensus basis, i.e. the composition of this committee should be consensually defined. And of course, the commission's mandate cannot be as narrow as it is suggested in this decision. You have to ask a lot more questions, just like you, by the way, did. Now, most importantly, two positions, I confirm that our faction is calling off the national MPs, the proposal to include them in this commission. Our faction will not work on such a commission if it deals solely with the issues defined in the draft decree. And secondly, Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to do some research. How this decision was registered to me at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u25	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u26	I find it difficult to understand, since the Rules provide, indeed, a five - day deadline for making proposals. We got our faction, our letter that we've been making proposals for 14 numbers, and we're already voting for a commission without a membership. I mean, the way this decision was registered in the first place, it's hard for me to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u27	Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Company's faction will vote in favour of this order. We come from the following, first of all, to put an end to speculation in society around Channel 5, because intentionally, by committing an offence without meeting the legal requirements for the allocation of radio frequency, appropriate documents have been issued, which are the basis and criminal act. It is therefore not possible to postpone this because deliberately separate means of information, speculative in society, are fueling contradictions and an environment that does not create peace and tranquillity, harmony. Secondly, we need to put an end to this and take a deep look at the new composition of the National Council for Television and Radio with all the things that have been done in radio frequency by an orange team for five years of madness in our country. And we need to figure out who and how they gave out that radio frequency. They have caused tremendous damage to the security of the country. That's why I'm suggesting the Company's faction will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u30	I propose that this decision be taken immediately and that a specific fact be examined. The Office of the Attorney-General would then bring to justice those responsible for such an offence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u31	Yes, please, one minute from the committee and from the author. Please, Chewchenka. And Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u32	Colleagues, I have. That we're just running away so fast right now, we can't figure out where we're going. I suggest we calm down and look at this situation calmly. There are no political contradictions here right now. For now. We have two determinations. None of them are legally perfect. By one decree, these are two draft decrees. I'll just let you know that according to the committee's decision, the number 6540 ruling on the formation of the TSC is registered. It was voted unanimously by all members of our committee. So we're talking about two draft decisions that are currently registered and have registration numbers. None of the two projects are legally perfect. The problems are now coming from both sides. I also remind the leader of the Party of Regions faction that from the faction of the Party of Regions there was a formal application to a member of your faction of Helen Bondarenko's involvement in the TSC that would investigate censorship and other pressures of freedom of speech. This submission is in the secretariat of our committee. My offer. I think it is necessary to support the position that was echoed by Yuri Stac and the chairman of this session. You have to go out on a whole, one-size-fits-all. And I would like to make an announcement about the proposal that was voted on by our committee unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! I'm a non-fractional MP. After a situation arose in Ukraine, when the opposition again accused power of the oppression of freedom of speech and of breaking the law, and the authorities accused the former authority of violating the law, I felt it necessary to vote urgently in the Supreme Council for the creation of the TSC. And I, as a lawyer and as a non-fractional person, guarantee you absolute objectivity in this matter. I want to remind you, all those who are making noise now, that the gas commission once told the truth to the Ukrainian people, and this truth is fully confirmed by today's events. At the same time, you did not allow the people and parliament to make a decision that would prevent violations of legislation in the area of gas supply. I assure you today that if Parliament does not receive a representation from the NS-NS and the BUIT, this commission is under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u36	This commission can be created, and it will work. And I'm responsible for it being objective and giving both to society and to the international community absolutely reliable data on how the licenses have been issued for the last five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful. In fact, you and I have found ways to resolve this issue. The only thing I can say is that the next order under number 6540 is registered with exactly the same violation. I mean, please, come on, I'm really turning around to avoid such things. But perhaps with the exception of units, all TSCs are shaped that way. The author of the bill takes the initiative, registers the decision, and then looks for members of the commission to do so. So this is where the question is removed. I don't see any problems. I would ask, once again, the author of Bill 6521 Inna Hermanovna, and the author of the ruling from the committee, we will consider that represented by First Deputy Andriy Shevchenko. [[6540]] Get down now, bring down these two orders, because it's probably worth it in decision 6521 to expand the commission's authority, not just to stay on channels, two channels, and on frequencies, but to expand as they want. Provide the necessary warehouse, and as soon as you are ready, we will vote on it. For the time being, respectable colleagues have been moved to consider the matter. The question is: we have two draft amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code (new edition). [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! We don't have a board, let's find an understanding and everything will be fine. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code is under consideration. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6495 and 6495-1]] We have alternative bills, so we're going to be looking at two. Please welcome to the words of Minister of Finance Jaroshenko Fedor Aleksiowiovich, please. Please, 20 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! I present to you today the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code. The project is prepared in accordance with Ukraine's 2010-2014 economic reform programme and aims to ensure the achievement of the objectives and objectives defined by it. This is the creation of public finance management systems aimed at ensuring sustained economic growth and ensuring that the state fulfils its social obligations at the expense of optimising public finances management, reducing deficit levels and increasing government debt, increasing efficiency and flexibility of fiscal expenditure. Comprehensive changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code will provide a legal basis for national values development and budget and other reform in line with the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. The way forward is to improve the institutional component of government finance management, strengthen the relationship between economic, budgetary, tax and monetary policies, establish transparent and non-corruption budgetary management processes, increase the accountability of budget participants, simplify and optimize budgetary procedures, and strengthen new budgetary rules. The conceptual basis for the preparation of the project was, in addition to the economic reform programme, the main thrusts of the 2011 budgetary policy, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the beginning of this month and President Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic's message to the Ukrainian people. I would like to point out that the draft is a real result of the joint efforts of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, local self-government bodies, central executive bodies and public organizations. During the project process, the Ministry of Finance received and included more than 200 proposals. So today I am presenting to you the outcome of a joint effort by various branches of government and various political forces aimed at achieving the common goal of improving the efficiency of the national budgetary system for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. The project presented to you contains changes in budgetary legislation along the following lines: the introduction of medium-term budgetary planning and the development of a software-based budgeting method; the modernization of the accounting system; the improvement of the public debt management system; the introduction of a single European model of national internal financial control; and the improvement of budgetary discipline; and the financial sustainability of local budgets. Ukraine's budget system will implement the principles of systemivity and consistency in planning and implementing budgets at all levels. If the current regulatory framework allows government funding to be planned for only one year, the proposed changes provide for the identification of the main state and consolidated budgets for the next three budget periods. Legal mechanisms are being put in place to plan and implement long-term budget programs that will have a strategic effect. The budget process is fully implemented by a software and target method. You define the software-target method at the legislative level, you reveal the essence and content of its constituents. The methodological basis for the application of the software target method is being improved, medium-term planning of the main budget managers is being introduced. Thus, the proposed changes will allow for the practical implementation of medium-term budgetary planning, which will significantly improve the efficiency of budgetary expenditure. In order to create conditions for the modernization of the accounting and reporting system in the public sector, it is proposed: to harmonize the rules and procedures for accounting and reporting in the public financial management system, to apply the only approach to the accounting service as a separate unit in the budgetary institutions, to identify in the budget implementation reports financial and budgetary reporting, to provide for the submission to the President of Ukraine by the State Treasury of the budget implementation report, to expand the reporting on the implementation of the National Budget Act of Ukraine. The efficiency of government administration is determined by the reliability of the results of the measures already taken. For this reason, the harmonization of public sector accounting rules, increased transparency in the use of budgetary resources and public finances will ensure that budgetary expenditure is channelled in a targeted manner. The project envisages a number of key measures in the area of government debt management that will ensure that government borrowing and flexible debt policies are best suited to financial markets. In order to improve the public debt management system, it is proposed to define the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to establish the conditions of government borrowing and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the acquisition of government commitments on behalf of Ukraine; to set up a mechanism for the substitution of government borrowings and debt repayments; to simplify the procedure for the acquisition of credit agreements for investment programmes, namely by defining in the Law on State Budget; to provide for the enforcement of state debt rights, including exchange, issuance and sale of government debt; to provide for the execution of a single treasury account and the cost of state budget accounts in deposits and through the establishment of contracts for the temporary purchase of public securities; to provide for the establishment of a competitive basis for the imposition of a single treasury account and the cost of public budget accounts in deposits and the establishment of contracts for the temporary purchase of public securities; and to establish the basic requirements for the establishment of such transactions; and to establish a framework for the implementation of the necessary for the implementation of the budget. In addition, the local debt management system is significantly improving, and the relevant rights of local authorities and local self - government are expanding. In particular, it is proposed to regulate the basic rules for local borrowing and the provision of local guarantees; to extend the range of local budgets that may carry out external borrowings; to determine the marginal scope of local debt, including local guarantees; and to establish the direction of use of the funds involved by local borrowing. These innovations will make it possible in practice to increase the independence of local self - government by strengthening it with competitive financial instruments. In general, a large portion of the money that has been put into your project is directed toward strengthening the financial basis of local self - government activities. The corresponding changes to the Budget Code are called upon to form a basis for reforming local self - government. To this end, it is proposed: the gradual increase in the physical weight of inter-budget transfers in public budget expenditure; and the strengthening of the stimulating component of inter-budget regulation. In budgetary relations, in inter-budget relations, we propose, inter alia: increasing the financial capacity of executives and local self-government authorities by securing additional income sources; increasing the investment component of local budgets, including by increasing the number of sources of income to the development budget; improving the system of granting and using subsidies for the implementation of targeted investment projects for socio-economic development; improving the cost-accounting mechanism that is included in the determination of inter-budgetary transfers; systematizing the budgetary responsibilities of local budgets; developing a medium-term regional development programme based on scientifically sound regional development priorities and taking into account local government proposals. There are significant changes in the formulas that determine the amount of inter-budget transfers. There is an increase in local budget revenues, which will further increase their financial resources by 17.3 billion dollars. Additional sources of income are identified that are not taken into account when determining the size of inter-budget transfers. The increase in local budgets is estimated at 4.8 billion dollars. There are additional costs to be taken into account in the calculation of the amount of inter-budget transfers and in addition to the region, more than 1 billion dollars will be allocated. Thus, the overall increase in local budgets will be more than 23 billion, and this will continue to increase. The bill proposes, inter alia, to provide from the State budget to local budgets for licences and certificates, national registration fees, 50 per cent for the special use of forest resources of state value, 50 per cent for special water use, 50 per cent for the use of public value fences, renting fees for public value rivers, fees for other natural resources. Redistribution is made in favour of the local budgets of the income tax provided for by the relevant provisions of the draft Tax Code submitted by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council. At the same time, the redistribution of incomes that are included in the determination of inter-budgetary transfers excludes land fees, administrative fines, income from a single tax on small business entities to development budgets, the payment of a trading patent for certain types of entrepreneurial activities, and income from a fixed tax on the income of individuals from entrepreneurial activities. The expenditure included in the definition of inter-budget transfers includes the financing of social rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities, vocational rehabilitation centres for persons with disabilities, the financing of socio-psychological rehabilitation centres for children, social groups, the maintenance of secondary education. Twice, from 20 percent to 50 percent, the budget of cities, villages, and villages in the congregation for environmental pollution and for environmental damage. The local budget fund provides for 5 per cent of the income and income tax for small business entities, with a revenue tax of 2 per cent for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, urban, Kiev and Sevastopol budgets and up to 3 per cent for the Republic’s Autonomous Republic of Crimea and district budgets, 30 per cent for village, village and district budgets. Setting the actual size of the calculation within the projected rates will be determined by appropriate local councils. In this way a powerful tool for local development and investment policy is transferred to the region. The construction of the modern budget system is not possible without a qualitative change in the budgetary control system. To this end, it is proposed to improve the system of departments, which conducts internal control and internal audit, by focusing on the prevention of breaches of budgetary legislation. For this purpose, internal control and audit units will be established in all budgetary institutions. At the same time, there will be an improvement in the system of responsibility for violations of budgetary legislation, clarified types of budget violations and specific responsibility for them. Forty types of budget violations and seven types of responsibility will be identified. This will ensure a balance between the introduction of flexible budgetary management mechanisms and the need to ensure solely targeted use of budgetary resources, and to improve the efficiency of budgetary expenditure. The project I have presented to you is a prerequisite for the start of budgetary reform and one of the pillars of the entire economic reform programme. It is a comprehensive, balanced document, the result of the joint work of all the well-designed political forces, local self-government bodies and central executive authorities. This project allows us to move from talking about budget reform to budget reform. I ask the people's deputies to support the project presented. Taking into account the need for the adoption of the draft law by the end of this session, which relates to the preparation of the State Budget for 2011, and considering that the bill has been designated as urgent, I would like to support the Government's proposal to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals by national deputies to 7 days and to approve the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Ukraine Budget Code as a whole during the current session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u39	Thank you, Feder Alexiovich. Notice, not in general today, but in the current session, so. The minister said it right. Please sign up for the question. Yes, please, Tuck. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u40	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Mr. Minister, I'm here! Right here. Two short questions. There is, of course, some positive part of this budget code, but when we say that land payments today are one of the bases of local self-government, unfortunately, the failure to complete land reform has led to the fact that there is no final monetary valuation of land today, there is no delimitation of state and municipal property, there are no boundaries of population, and so today there will not be much income in the local budgets. And the second question. Unfortunately, the formal approach is also positive, but it doesn't take into account when it comes to population calculations, there are, of course, two equal areas, 40,000, but in one area of 50-60 population, and in another area, there are 30 population centres. This coefficient then goes, the network settles, but it still doesn't settle until the end. And in that area where there are 60 schools, where there are 30 schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u41	Thank you so much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are making changes to the tax system. To the Budget Code, these are systemic changes that will allow for the formation of the revenues of the local budgets to be absolutely clear. So the question you're asking is really relevant and important. And we're going to be looking at it with you, I think, at this evening's meeting, when we're looking at the draft tax code. Therefore, with regard to tax matters, we do not include norms in the Codex Budget. This is where fiscal policy is based exclusively, which is harmonized with the Tax Code. Thus, improving the administration and administration of the land tax will be a constant activity. The second question you asked about the formula. Indeed, the formula does not meet the needs of all regions without exception, and problems always arise. So by accepting the changes we're making in the tax project you're offered. The budget code, we will be more effective in formulating our position on formulas and introducing appropriate corrections that will allow for balancing and eliminating the problems that arise in the formation of local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u42	Alexander's Alla, please. There's a Gordy behind her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u43	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Fedor Aleksevic, please tell me, if the principle of budgeting is a formula, yes. We're talking about programs and so on. But on the ground, whether it's their means or whether it's theirs, whether it's transfers, whether it's subsidies, but it's still a formula. So it turns out that the general principle is not changed. Yes, we are making changes to the Budget Code, and more funds are initially left at the local level, but still remain in total the quantity that is determined by the formulas. In the same way, the innovation of this budget code is in terms of securing funding for those. The human environment guaranteed by the Constitution: health, education, transport and so on? Is that what's new in principle in this code?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u44	It means it's new. Thank you. That's a very interesting question. I've told you that this draft changes to the Tax Code take into account that for the first time, local government authorities have been given 50 percent of the money that will come above the network of budget assignments defined by law. That is, 50 percent of the income tax and excise tax will be included, over-planned incomes, and local council sessions, and they will use them on their own calculations and target the goals they define. That's the first one. The other one. News of local self - government. We make changes that give the possibility that the formula, it calculates the wrong things you're talking about. The formula, it doesn't regulate, let's say, problems in the development of regions. And there's a development budget that's completely empty today, and capital costs, they don't count by formula. The changes to the Budget Code make it clear that the local self-government will be granted, and I told you that 5 percent of the income tax will be allocated exclusively to the development budget. And local self-governance, when, as we did before, and today we set them up, there, subsidies for socio-economic development, in the 2011 budget we will no longer allocate subsidies for socio-economic development, because they will form below, below for. We're handing over the resources, I told you, 23 billion. This is an additional resource, which today is supposed to have local budgets, and only with the adoption of changes do local budgets receive an additional 23 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u46	Local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u47	Please, Sergey Gordienka. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u48	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Feder Alexiovich! Of course, if we didn't talk about changing the budget code, there are benefits and negatives. And, of course, no one will ever be satisfied with the ideal. Today, the biggest problem of this Code of Budgets and Economics is that in many, many regions and especially agrarians do not have exactly a tax base and there is nothing to fill budgets. I'd like to draw your attention to the next one. In addition to the extremely relevant question of the boundaries of the population and the delimitation of land, which will create a tax base. It's just a disaster! We are initiating a meeting at the age of the century, namely, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Tihonova himself, to study it. And in order for the Cabinet of Ministers to do so, and the Ministry of Finance to do just that. Because local budgets can't do that. And has he discussed with the regions, this project?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u49	Thank you. Areas were discussed. Because the changes we've proposed to you today, we've sent this draft of the Budget Code to the region. And absolutely for every region. And we asked for proposals from every region. They were all processed, considered. In part, we counted them. In part, we'll take into account, work together. I think that if we work with you on the second reading, we're going to consider this bill, we're going to make some good changes that will allow us to solve these questions that you're asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u50	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Feder Alexiyovich! I've known you for a long time. But I don't understand why and who took the liberty of showing such disrespect for the Constitution of Ukraine, for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because in this project, the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is shrinking like a foot skin. You turn an MP into nothing, you just delete the head of the budget committee, you don't even have the right to report a bill right now. Look at all of this in this bill. I'm surprised what happened, I'm not talking about anything else in this document, 307 pages. You know, Feder Alexiyovich, I'm reading every page, I'm telling you, this is a disgraceful document for our state right now, it's not ready, it's serious stuff here, but it's not ready. You swap court decisions, you say you can take money from local budgets, you can take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u52	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u53	I'll finish the question. Therefore, the honourable Feder Alexiyovich, not that it is necessary to reduce the time limit for reading this and amending it, not only should it be missed now through other committees, it should be missed through the Committee of Legal Policy, to see the conformity of the Constitution, the self-government of the local community, because there are serious attacks on the rights of local self-government. I don't think we should rush into this. I claim as the author of the Constitution one of those who are here, that it essentially limits the rights of local self-government -- once, the rights of deputies -- two, and the rights of the Supreme Council in general three. How about that, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. In fact, the project that we're looking at today is not the ideal version that we're proposing to you today. It's really done, but it can be improved to the limitless, so it's a very large procedure. As far as the questions you've asked are concerned, I want to say, by the Constitution, yes. We consider and amend the Law on the Budget Code. And today's task is for all of us: to clearly define the procedures for the budgetary process. You know, when we're looking at the State Budget Act, we have hundreds more text articles, and they're extremely burdensome, they're very incomprehensible. The aim was, therefore, to amend the Budget Code, to clarify the procedure for establishing clear rules for the budgetary process. In order for all subjects to understand how the budget process will continue. Not to be regulated by individual articles of the Budget Act, and then the budget is adopted, the year is over, and some of the rules are not done, the standards are not worked, the money does not reach the budgets of local levels, and everything is left with slogans. The proposed changes vice versa, we increase the role of the local budgets when you read, you really might not have made it, because it's very large. But the authority and role of the local budgets are greatly enhanced, and in terms of increasing the role and central, I tell you, MPs, too, because you are a member and you are given the right to be a law-enforcement minister today, and as a minister of finance, I am asking the question that less instructing the Ministry of Finance and regulate certain rules with instructions, and we are willing to regulate all processes by law. So we're changing the law, no official is going to take any instructions, and it's going to be governed exclusively by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u55	Finish up, please. Thank you, Feder Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. We're looking at the alternative bill number 6495-1. It is said that Lyszko is sick, but there are coauthors. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u56	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished listeners, I would like our discussion to go not as a separate discussion of two draft laws, but as a discussion of what the government has prepared and what has been prepared as an alternative bill that has been registered. Unfortunately, however, it has not been handed over to the Ukrainian National Deputies at the same time, although it has undergone an appropriate expertise on the Committee of Budgets. First. If we take the structure of these two bills, they're in line with the draft law that we voted in this session hall, which has won 226 votes and was passed on to the previous President, but was pledged by the previous President. This veto was not overcome precisely because it's very easy to compare these two documents that are actually going in the same structure, in the same pattern, and they're proposing, in fact, consideration of similar issues. The only thing that matters when we go back to the point is the difference. Where would I like to start? First of all, if the previous Budget Code, which we have already introduced as a new, alternative, clearly identifies 12,000 additional entities that are registered according to the formula, actually all income and expenditure. This means that all existing local councils — rural, rural, urban — that exist according to Ukrainian legislation have their own incomes, in fact, this bill, which the government submits, leaves only 700 subjects, the old scheme. What does this lead to? In fact, before the key principle is cooled, when the budget of the city, the villages, the villages as the key budget established in the Constitution of Ukraine is re-formed by areas or, accordingly, areas, or even worse by Kiev. That is why, in fact, 12,000 subjects fall out of the process. The second is equally important. In fact, transfers from the State budget to the local budgets are overturning all the innovations that have been directly voted on in the previous draft of the Budget Code, which we have directly incorporated into our project. What does this lead to? In fact, in articles 98, 102 and 103, which directly regulate the issue of granting subsidies for subsidies and subsidies to rural, rural and urban areas and the level of cities called district subordination, these standards are completely excluded. So we have a situation where key settlements, where almost 100 percent of the population of Ukraine live, are generally excluded from the order of formation of fixed budget concessions, which should be directly in accordance with the law that is in our project accordingly. The second, very key principle, is the order of recalculation of inter-budget transfers. Here we see that once again it is narrowed down exclusively to areas called district subordination cities and areas, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Sevastopol and Kiev, and that is where all the novices introduced in this budget code by the government end up. In our project, you will see clearly that all these novels are fixed and we have the ability, according to the formula, to understand clearly that even before the adoption of the state budget, all the local councils, without exception, have the opportunity to adopt their budgets, with clear and solid mandates given to our draft budget code. The next key point. In fact, the draft of our Budget Code clearly defines which taxes, which congregations are set by budgets at all levels. How does this differ from a government project? In the government project, by 50 percent, the special water collection is reduced by 50 percent, based on local budgets compared to our project, by a quarter, to a reduction in the standard of deductions from the total amount of taxes on the income of natural persons, which in our bill are directly anchored in the budgets of cities, villages and villages, which is defined by the Constitution. In fact, 15 percent of the income of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district and district budgets that are included in the determination of the amount of inter-budgetary transfers are excluded from the income tax of the payers or are counted according to the relevant law. By 50 percent, the congregation is cut short for special water use, which is for district councils, circuit cities, and district subordination cities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And in terms of the arrivals of a special local budget fund, we see, again, a 30 percent reduction compared to our draft budget code. So it can be noted that, in key fixed budget positions that will have villages, villages and cities that do not relate to sub-zonal cities, our draft budget code directly allows local councils to form budgets without defining interference from Kiev or from the area. The next, in my opinion, is a very important moment, which is a related, budgetary code, which is presented by the government with the Tax Code, which you will not find in our codex. Here is a novelty that leaves 5 percent of the government's income tax to local councils. So all the claims that the income tax is reduced from 25 to 5. 5 percent, 20 percent, doesn't fit. 5 percent is passed on to local councils. Now let's think about what this is going to lead to. We know the practice when, so - called local tax benefits, rather than national taxes, were granted to local councils, where unequal conditions were imposed by the owners when, for example, rental fees were paid by one trading complex, while others were released by appropriate local councils. This is where the government went even further. He's even a statewide tax, which is a 5 percent profit tax on the local council. What advice can be given to businessmen in this situation? To go and make arrangements with the district, district or local authorities, and to place your business in unequal terms with the business of another. It is also appropriate to promote this in sessions of appropriate district, city, district councils you will receive preferences for your business, and from what tax – think! - from income tax. I can't understand the position of either Minfin, or the government, or the President, who signed this bill, and what, clearly, you won't find in our bill. Instead, what does our bill propose? Directly – 10 percent of the income tax that is generated by non-state enterprises leave the city’s local budgets, a village that can avoid corruption in this scheme, and have guaranteed budget concessions. I think this rule is unacceptable in the government project. And this rule is duplicated in the tax project. And that's why I would pay attention to it when we also consider the Ukrainian Tax Code. The next rule, which, in my opinion and in the view of the copyright team, is very important, which distinguishes our project from the government project. First of all, it's about government development programs and the possibility of adding additional funds to local budgets. Our project has a direct norm that allows such funds to be involved in rural, rural and urban budgets. In a government project, this rule disappears. It's just off. That's why if you make the first summary of the key question, whether there's a basis for creating local budgets, you can clearly give the answer: yes, you'll find that in our version, but you won't find that in the government. That is why the village, village, city councils of district subordination will in fact go with their hands stretched out and ask accordingly in the area, in the district, or in the city of Kiev, in the Ministry of Finance, in exchange for taxes. What will this lead to? We can already predict it. If disgruntled councils, which for example formed a majority that did not correspond to the general majority, would in fact not receive the funds that they should receive in accordance with all the laws of Ukraine. This will lead to the fact that the approach is actually subjective and is very and very dangerous. That's why, the first part, for us, is the substantial support of our own draft budget code, where we have 12 out of thousands of local budgets that allow us to directly budget cities, villages, villages, areas, areas. The next norm is, in our view, very and very important. And that was raised by Deputy Carmazin in a question to the previous reporter. Now let's take a look at what happens to the powers of the Supreme Council, the budgetary committee, the head of the budget committee in the project that we've submitted, and the project that the government is submitting as its own. In fact, the ability to control the budgetary process by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is completely overstated. To date, the head of the budget committee represents the majority. What are you afraid of? I don't understand the government's position. If you take a separate report from the head of the budget committee when the budget is being considered in a so-called second reading; when you take the right of the budget committee, which is represented today by all the factions of Parliament, to redistribute the transfers that the Ministry of Finance is making without agreement with the budget committee. In fact, we find ourselves in a situation where the draft law, which is passed by the majority, limits the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which limits them very much. This means a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, where these powers are established. The next very fundamental moment. The Supreme Council is even removed from the concept of direct budgeting in second reading. There is no such standard now. In the government project, it's gone at all, and so the Supreme Council will be a statistician who will vote for any novels that will be submitted by the government or by the Ministry of Finance separately. One of these novelties, I said, is that 5 percent of the state tax, which is directly fixed in the budget, which is directly established in the Constitution, is the exclusive right of the state, is passed on to the auctions, to the local budgets, to continue to bear bribes. If such novices appear in future budgets, I imagine how the budget will be formed. The next rule, which is very and very key. In fact, we are in a situation where the budget committee will not actually influence anything. The budget is approved, it is clear that there are expenses or assemblies, or payments to the budget, which in any case exceed or decrease compared to what the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics has forecasted. What have we always done in such a situation in recent years, and this is set forth directly in the Codex Budget? The Ministry of Finance appealed to the Committee of Budgets, and only with the approval of the Committee of Budgets could these articles be transferred accordingly. This is fixed in our project, in the government project, it's gone. Moreover, the Budget Committee is now unable to influence anything at all. Well, maybe then the Budget Committee will do anything, but not the budget, because what functions it can't make, it can't make any changes. To what, then, are the national deputies who are members of the Committee on Budgets, which is the largest in Parliament today? That's why it's the second norm of generalization. In our view, if this rule remains in the government's draft budget, in fact, after that, the Budget Committee will not be able to influence the budgetary process in Parliament at all, nor the changes that can be made and made in the process of its consideration. I understand that it is very convenient for government officials to make decisions automatically, to approve these decisions, not to go to parliament, not to go to the Committee on Budgets, and thus to be completely vacchanized and uncontrollable by the government and the Ministry of Finance. The next crucial last moment I'd like to stop at. In fact, the draft budget code submitted by our group of national deputies is not essentially an alternative. This is the body of the Budget Codex, which makes sense. Because here's the logic. There are fixed mandates of local budgets, and without exception, there are fixed taxes and congregations that are fixed by all budgets of all levels and, accordingly, may be required of these local councils. In the government project, we see additional requirements that stand, but there is no reinforcement of financial resources. That's why our group's proposal is to support our draft budget with figure 1. It provides an opportunity and provides a real opportunity for us to start the second phase of fiscal reform, after we have increased from 27 to 700 subjects that are now able and able to form, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u57	Finish up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u59	Please sign in if you have any questions. Yes, please, Blackhawk Alexander. Demyanchuk, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Sobola, and what do you think is why the former President vetoed a similar bill that you filed, in fact, on the bill that you are now proposing. And for what reason did today's president vote twice for this bill and then refuse to defeat the veto? That was the case, too, that is. And the second question. What method do you think today’s government has worked on this Codex of Budget? It seems to me that he was taking the old budget code, which was developed by the government of Timoshenko, and he worked a little bit with scissors in some places, in other places, in other places, that he broke the structure, and actually worsened the fact that today's current budget code, and the one that was introduced by the government of Timoshenko, and actually what he has now, is actually a document that will not be able to plan the budget process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u61	I'll start with a second question, a short one. And a very short answer. In fact, if you take two projects: a project we have implemented, which we are not hiding, this is a project that this session hall has already voted by 226 people; a project prepared by the government -- you will see, the structure is virtually the same. The only thing that's missing in the government structure is 12,000 districts. Sorry, rural, urban, village budgets. The government project adds additional powers to the local councils and excludes articles that provide funding for local councils. And so we can keep going. There are direct violations of the Constitution in a government that. Which I insist on is obvious, and which is indicated by, for example, the Scientific and Experimental Authority. So I think we have a way out of this today -- we have a pattern that we're moving through is the only scheme. Now only the hall has to decide: we want the local councils to form their own revenue parts of the budget, and we have had this opportunity to do all the local councils that exist here. Why was there a veto? I'm sure why. Because every president wants to run local councils. They still want me to c.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u62	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u63	12,000 heads of village, village, city councils were asking for taxes in Minfin, so easy to work. I believe that our task of deputies is once and for all to put an end to when these taxes are issued in Minfin or in other institutions. The authority of local councils should be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u64	Please, Demyanczuk, Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Alexander's Ally Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u66	Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u67	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. The draft law you have proposed is a direct compilation of the option that has already been considered in this room. It is most surprising that you are resubmitting it after a sufficiently harsh criticism that he has been subjected to here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's more, you're repeating the same mistakes that actually killed a good idea because you're going in violation of procedures. The issue was that the Budget Code could not be adopted without, in isolation from other changes in Ukrainian legislation, particularly in respect of taxes. You're not doing it again. And then it was a very cruel criticism, how can we make changes without changing the fiscal process of tax collection? You see, then this idea of 12,000 budget adoptions, it wasn't supported by the councils of small towns, of suburban cities, because you don't take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u68	I understood the questions. On the other hand, I would like to emphasize that our bill had the support of 226 people's deputies in both the first and second readings. And he was sent to President Yushchenk for signature and he vetoed this law, which is that he wasn't supported in the hall, well, that's not true. The other one. Was he supported by small, so - called, small - city associations and an association of village councils? I have letters signed by the heads of the associations of these councils, where they supported and accepted it, and they endorsed it in congregations where there were eight thousand authorized representatives of these local councils. And thirdly, lastly, I'm just convinced that if you take a government project, it really requires changes in tax-based legislation. Our project envisions a redistribution. And this, I think, should be exclusively in the Budget Code, nowhere else. Because then you look again in dozens of acts of reference to different norms where clearly the stakes remain the same and the redistribution of funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u69	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u70	This is actually the mandate of the Budget Code. Because in government, 5 percent is transferred to the local council for ransom, and we have 10 percent of the income tax directly accounted for by the local council, without any kind of trade or financial abuse. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u71	Please, Lukyanov. A miller to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u72	The distinguished Prime Minister of the Shadow Economy would like to ask you a question. Here's your previous government working completely budgetlessly. He managed government finances by hand and was simply deconstructing them. As a result, you have left behind almost a billion debts. Your government's public debt has increased to over 300 billion dollars. It's only in two years of your team's work. And now that the new team has stabilized the situation in just a few months, it has received a positive assessment of the major international financial rating organizations: Standard & Poor's, Fitch, other rating organizations. It's not the games in the sandbox, it's the team's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u73	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u74	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u75	Mr. Vladislav, we are discussing the Budget Code, not the achievement of the government of Azarov. If you're talking about the achievements of the government of Azarov, I'll give you three digits. They will be best appreciated. In four months, foreign direct investment dropped by 29 percent. Read the report of the National Bank of Ukraine. The second month in a row is the decline in industrial production: 1.2 last month, 2 percent this month. Although they were beginning to emerge from the crisis, in January there was an increase, a small one, and an increase, and the previous four months continued to grow. Now with regard to international ratings, but I think the best international assessment, if we're essentially speaking professionally, is in another. If the Budget Code regulates clearly, as is practically the case in all European countries, at least the countries of the European Union, the direct consolidation of tax deductions and other deductions directly under each local budget, this is the best principle of the formation of the local budget, not the distribution of these taxes from Kiev or the area. And last of all, with regard to the shadow economy, we have other specialists, so ask them for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u76	Peter Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u77	Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Dear reporter! You put a little shadow on the knitting. You're publishing new things that aren't new. A group of National Deputies from the Committee on Budgets in 2008 have made appropriate changes to the Budget Code and there is a difference, and yours is exactly the same as the changes that have been made, the difference between the government that is currently being introduced and yours. Oh, first of all, you anticipate less resources to transfer to local budgets. The second basket does not include a single tax on small business entities, a fixed tax on the income of entrepreneurs, a payment for a commercial patent. Secondly, there are no standards that encourage local authorities to increase revenue. 50 percent of the income tax paid by the Excise Congregation over the year’s calculations is 8.4 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u78	Comparison of two budgets, the Budget Codex. So, I specifically analyzed why we're going to analyze what's going to happen, I've analyzed two budgets this year, a budget prepared by the government of Azarov, which provides for twenty-four percent to leave to the local budgets and 76 percent to send to Kiev. This is the best feature. What does this draft of the Codex Budget differ from that of today? I've given the characteristics, too. Compared to our project, by the way, I'd like to turn again from this rostrum and thank our colleagues who actually found two years ago the excellent draft of the budget code that this room supported. These are representatives of various factions, including Mr. Zebrovsky, who has not now signed under this code, but there are novels that we have submitted. We have taken into account the changes that have taken place over the past two years, and that is why we have established additional deductions, which are, according to local taxes and congregations. And secondly, when I see that one of the key novels of this draft budget code of government is that tax on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u79	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u80	The property tax remains with the local councils, and it turns out that the Property Tax Code will pay housing owners 300 square feet [300 sq m] or more, or owners of houses 500 square feet [500 sq m] or more. Or is it bullying our citizens? Who lives in apartments at 300 square meters? But in this room, you're not going to find any of these people among the billionaires, so that's for solid authorization.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Have a seat. From the committee, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Mikola Ivanovich. Please take the two bills 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u82	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies and the invited ones, the need to make changes to the budget code is obvious, undeniable, and ultimately binding. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u83	Closer to the microphone, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u84	Of course, it is a long - awaited and very important document. Its adoptions are driven by changes that have taken place and are taking place in the country’s social and economic development and, as a result, require new approaches to the formulation of budgetary policies, the formulation, approval and implementation of state and local budgets. That is, the continuation of budgetary reform. For your consideration, you have two draft laws amending budget code number 6495, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and number 6495-1, submitted by the People's Deputies. The authors have just shown us the positive side of both bills and their advantages over the existing code. On June 15, the bills were presented to the Committee on Budget Affairs, where it was stressed first that they were aimed at a comprehensive solution to issues with improved budgetary legislation. It was also noted that the Law on amending the Budget Code adopted by the Supreme Council in 2009 was based on the Government Bill 6495. But cancelled because of the failure of the President's veto, this is also noteworthy because the bill was being worked on by the MPs of all factions and committees. And the reason for its non-acceptance was the differences in approaches to building direct relations between state and local budgets, ranging from 691 to 12,000 budgets. Accordingly, the basic provisions of the government bill have a positive basis. The government draft of the new budget code lays down the legal basis for further development of the programming and target method in the budgetary process, medium-term budgetary planning, the application of modern methods for budgetary management of public and local debt, the improvement of the control system and the responsibility for the retention of budgetary legislation. At the end of the day, amendments to other legislative acts are envisaged to ensure that the bill conforms to the constitutional provisions and regulations of other legislative acts. The bill is systematized and balanced by the process of drafting, approval, execution of the State budget, monitoring its implementation. Among the main provisions of the bill are those aimed at strengthening the financial base of local self - government. In particular, it is suggested that: first, to expand the composition of local budgets, especially those providing self-sustainable functions, including land payments of over 2 billion dollars, commercial patents for certain types of entrepreneurial activities – over 300 million dollars, fixed income tax for entrepreneurial activities – over 260 million dollars and so on. The other one. To add 50 percent of the revenue to the general fund of local budgets to the income tax on enterprises and the excise collection received over the annual accounting amounts set out in the State Budget Act is 8.4 billion dollars. Third. In favour of the budgets of villages, towns, and cities, the rules of accounting for the congregation’s pollution of the environment and for the damages caused by violations of environmental legislation from 20 percent to 50 percent, which will increase their revenues by 280 million dollars. Four. Including local budgets, the only tax for small business entities will allow them to include 1.8 billion dollars of corporate income tax, other than utility taxes, at additional rates the right to install which will be granted to local councils by law, a resource of 7.3 billion dollars. Fifth. Organize local budget remittances by including those included in the determination of inter-budget transfers, such as expenditure on individual secondary education programs, social and professional orientation centres for disabled persons, and social psychological rehabilitation centres for children. Together, it is worth over 800 million dollars. Six. Specialities regarding local borrowings have been reduced, including the population criteria under which cities are entitled to external borrowings from eight hundred to five hundred thousand inhabitants. The norm that has been discussed in the past and has not been agreed upon provides that the state budget builds relations with the budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev, and Sevastopol, the Republic. The Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Regional Value, the District and the District Budgets, the 691 Budget, and after the completion of the administrative and territorial reform, the Administrative and Territorial Units. In general, according to the Ministry of Finance, local budgets receive an additional resource of at least 23 billion dollars. However, the first reading of the bill provides a basis for determining the need for clarifications, additions, and reinforcements of individual standards proposed by the editors. For example, we cannot agree with the introduction to article 91, according to which the local budgets, which provide for their own powers, have been allocated public expenditure. These are state social protection programs, primarily compensation for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens, compensation to individuals who provide social services. Given the ban set out in Article 85 on the maintenance of a budget institution from two budgets, any exceptions to this rule are inappropriate. A violation of the rights of the head of the budgetary institution to ensure its effective activity is the introduction in article 56 of the need for the appointment of the chief accountant of the budgetary institution, more than 45,000 of them, in agreement with the State Treasury. In addition, a clearer and more detailed lecture requires a position on the supervisory functions of the Committee, the Budgetary Committee of the Supreme Council, as direct participants in the budgetary process, in accordance with their mandate to monitor compliance with budgetary legislation. The alternative draft Law amending the Budget Code number 6495-1, submitted by the People's Deputies, is based on a bill to amend the Budget Code submitted by the Budget Committee's authors group in 2008. Although it contains many similar provisions, there is a wide variety of positions regarding the organization of government and local budgets. Thus, after considering at its meeting on 15 June the draft laws amending the Budget Code under headings 6495 and 6495-1, the Committee on Budgetary Questions decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code under the heading 6495, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. I also consider it necessary to support the reasoning and proposal of the Minister of Finance to accelerate within 7 days the submission of proposals by people's deputies to the bill for consideration on second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sit down. Any questions? Sign up. We could take a break. Yes, please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u86	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich! Well, first of all, I only have one small question for you. Tell me, please, the so-called opposition, why I say so, so-called, because they are as much opposition as I am to the cosmonaut. This is the first time. They were in power for the past five years and proved what they were capable of, where they led the budget system to, and so on. Please tell them now they want us to continue to listen to their drafts. And they say the committee didn't really consider the government project and so on outside your committee and so on. So tell me, is that true or not? Is that just a lie? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u87	Dear colleague! Both bills have been considered. In my statement, and the rapporteur said, the 2008 Bill, which was under consideration in 2009, many of the provisions were retained in the bill. That is, they were considered in a timely manner. But I would like to make one point, which, in my view, the MP and the rapporteur on Bill 6495-1 have studied. The bill in question does not cover 12,000 budgets. You'll see what you signed. You signed that bill that was originally filed. And then we worked, deputies, factions, government committees, and then there were 12,000 budgets. That's why when you reported, there was an inaccuracies. I didn't see 12,000 budgets in your bill. If you have any, please contact the article. With regard to other articles, many articles are taken into account by the Government. And if the Supreme Council wills it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u88	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u89	based on the base. We in the committee will consider each proposal from the committee, from the deputies and so on. It's a decision-making room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u90	Please, Viziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u91	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to an experienced man, in the near past head of the city of John-Frankivsk Zinoviya Skutjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u92	Skutka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u93	Mikola Ivanovich, a question to you that we have discussed in two words with you. I'm reading in the proposed project that budget institutions are not profitable. Furthermore, I am reading a novel that is included in the Budget Code: “The revenue of the budgetary institutions” is the funds received in the established budget institutions, such as the provision of services, the execution of works, the implementation of products, property and other activities.” So we're turning budget institutions into business structures. This is the principle of politics and the novelty of this Codex Budget, is it a process that needs to be improved and sought? Because we're from the medics, if that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. As far as the service is concerned. Today, it is not a secret, budget institutions of health, education that provide services. It contains a paragraph: Develop or adopt order. This is what is done, but there is no established order by the Cabinet Minister, there may be what you say. “Other activities”. Here I think if you make an amendment, you can put a dot and not decipher it, because there will be freedom and budgetary institutions. I stress clearly what kinds of services they can perform in their profile: health, education, health care, education, education, if you are an intern, let's say what products are produced and implemented and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, for the time being, the first reading is being discussed, and the second one is clearly settled. Son of a bitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u96	I'll give the word to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u97	To the ruby microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, I don't know, you saw something on the monitors when there were slides in the presentation of this budget code. I didn't see anything, and no one saw it. I'm going to ask those who make presentations to think that if they want to see something that the slides are supposed to do, otherwise there's no sense, no sense in such slides, or binoculars need to be warned to bring national MPs. Ask you a question. There is a problem, a serious enough problem, when large businesses, profitable enterprises, profitable enterprises are doing business in Ukraine, and central offices are doing business in Kiev, and accordingly money is being collected here in Kiev. Don't you think, from the point of view of the normal organization and the budget and the tax system, this burden of paying taxes, paying money where they're harming them should be passed on?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u99	As far as the slides are concerned, I agree with you, but each Cabinet of Ministers member, the Ministry of Finance distributed such a brochure, and the slides themselves, they were about this brochure, and technically, we need to increase it in order to see it. As far as the matter is concerned. The bill provides that enterprises will list a certain percentage of local budgets on profits if we vote. I mean, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Mikola Ivanovich, please sit down. Yes, please sign up for a faction discussion. Why don't you sign up, and we'll talk about it. Yes, and from the deputies. Yes, mark the list. Dear colleagues, please identify who is behind you, gather your thoughts. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 43 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u101	Come into the session room. We will continue our consideration of the bill that has begun. Even though we were about to discuss with you the issue of the approval and dismissal of judges. Yes, from four factions. Yes, please give us forty minutes to discuss. Please, Kenzor, get ready for Melnik. The Levite Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u102	Pavel Žebrovsky, “Ukrainian Platform”. Dear colleagues, if anyone expected these changes to revolution in the budgetary process, there is no such thing. You won't see this revolution in this budget new code. Actually, it couldn't have been, because today the development of Ukraine's territorial units is diverse enough and difficult enough. To move on to a budget from the bottom to the top to today, we need an entity. carry out administrative territorial reform, run Ukraine's economy in a sufficiently broad way, and only then can we move on to a bottom-to-top budget. Of course, this budget code has not merely formed the present composition of Minfin and the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, five different institutions and national deputies have been working on this budget code for at least five years. And because of that, to say that these are catastrophic changes to the budget code, I can't. Clearly, there's something that likes it, it's actually a tax redistribution towards an increase in the resource base of local self-government. Although we need to look here at five percent of the income tax, two per district, three per district, and only one per cent of the village, village, town, that's not right. Because at least 50 percent of these five percent would be where the gross domestic product is produced. But it can certainly be adjusted. In fact, the minister of finance spoke favorably. I'd like to stop at negatives. And, of course, the first minus is today's attempt to remove Parliament's influence on both formation and budget control. In fact, there are no functions currently assigned, no tasks assigned to the budget committee. The Budget Committee is nominally only present in the formation and establishment of a budget, in fact a financial constitution for a year for the whole country. It's like we've become a de facto premier republic, not a parliamentary-presidential republic. It is clear that without the approval of the budgetary committee and the powers of the Supreme Council, this Codex Budgets will be adopted in an unsuspecting manner. Because if accused and sufficiently fair in the manual administration of past governments, it is getting deeper today, because the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, will decide everything for himself. Dear colleagues, today and by 50 percent, who talk about redistribution, remodeling, are not assigned, but how to determine the reassurance, which is the basis from which plans will be brought to the territories and whether there will be loved territories and unloved territories. That is, there are enough things to vote for today, but there is much to be done to correct and correct this Codex Budget. I wouldn't want you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u104	I don't want the political component to be added, because the Budget Code is the development of social rules for future generations, not just for us. And it shouldn't be. There should be less politics, there should be more expertise. I still call for serious work on this document so that we can adopt this law for many years in advance and it would regulate economic relations in the budgetary sphere of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u105	Peter Volodymyrovich Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of Regions, Kiev You know, the philosopher Seneca said that no wind would be passed on if you didn't know where to swim. And here I would like to emphasize that today we have a big event: we are looking at today's work, the collective work of the intelligence of Ukraine, I emphasize, I know personally more than a hundred doctors of science working on this document. It's about scientists in Ukraine. People's deputies know very well that their proposals are also taken into account, that the President's Administration knows about them, and that's exactly what our President's economic reform programmes are going to do, and that budget policy, which is foreseen and adopted by Parliament next year, we've done it with you on June 4th of this year. And I want to make it clear: 200 proposals are taken into account. I want to stress that the local budgets will eventually get the resources, because to manage without a resource, it's not management. Are you sure you're going to say, Peter Volodymyrovich, and administrative-territorial reform? This is the next step, but it's already created a base, motivation for local budgets. It's very important. 23 billion, is it much or not? You and I understand that there's a lot for Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, we need you to understand that the financial management system itself could not continue to be in manual mode, it's criminalizing this particular segment, it's tinning the economy, it's serious problems that don't work. And the introduction of medium-term budgetary planning, as well as the development of a software-based budgeting method, is a very good step and good, positive changes. The same changes will take place in accounting, in modernizing it, in improving governance, in general government debt. We should be interested in you as national deputies. The question is generally about the European model of State internal financial control. And I would like to say what needs to be corrected is the control of Parliament, the current control of Parliament over the budgetary process. You have to write this separately, in a separate chapter and it has to not be removed from these processes. That's the first one. And secondly, the role of the budgetary institution can't be to ban everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u107	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u108	So if you can, the development costs that the collective makes before the government orders. Allow yourself to manage expenses for the development of a collective, a council, a scientific council, and do not take that right away. This is only going to be in the development of a specific group, a particular case. Unfortunately, today is not the case. Without Statehood and the chief accountant's proposal is not to be appointed, it's nonsense at all. I suggest you support, take the basis, work on the second reading together and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Pavlovski Andry, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Who? Vladimir Bondarenko, please, from the faction. Get ready, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u110	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. When I open the tenth page of this document that we've been given, I see a list of those structures, the organizations that were involved in the development of this document. I am surprised that it is not the President of Ukraine as the subject of the legislative initiative, but the Ukrainian President’s Administration, the service that serves the President, comes first in the list. There is no Supreme Council here, there is no one who has participated in the development of this document and at least three committees of the Supreme Council: economic policy, finance, banking and budgetary committee. My colleague recently spoke of the participation of many national deputies. As one of the deputies on the Committee of Budgets, no one asked me to make any suggestions. In general, this document was drafted without the participation of the Supreme Council, which I emphasize. After reading it carefully, I'm going to say, for objectivity, that there are also a few positive positions here, such as an attempt at software-based financing methods that can really close the problem that is today, because we are funding for this year's direction, the year ends, the funding ends, and the program may not be fully implemented. And how to do it to the end is not clear. But don't let that remain a declaration. Unfortunately, there's a big negative here, and I would suggest planning, including budget funding, a little bit different, especially for some regional programs. This is about, for example, Kiev and the area having a common road system, shared labour resources, shared food resources, shared environmental problems, now funded in the city's budget and financed in the area's budget. And this leads to a lack of contact. Why don't you take six, seven, eight programs to start and fund them with a special system that's not strictly regulated by one budget or another. I also want to say that the money that is distributed in the budget is public money. And the full exclusion of the Supreme Council from the process of processing this data, the proposals that are coming, is totally unacceptable, it contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. Because the Ukrainian people are the only source of authority, they choose their legislative body, and the legislative body must control the structure that the Supreme Council itself chooses, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers. And if today the Supreme Council can't, under this budget code, return proposals to the budget, can't, can't, can't, can't, and there's no third reading where there's been a major balance sheet on such global indicators, then why are we? The budget committee is needed, according to this code, only to draw attention to this if irregularities are found in the calculations. It's a totally unacceptable document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction behind him will be Carmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u112	The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Company of Ukraine supports the need to amend the current budget code. Among the reasons that moved us to take such a position, including the reason that a valid law, a valid budget code, prevents us from financing a series of direct action laws. As an example. As an example, there is such a Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. It provides that the National Budget should finance rehabilitation centres for disabled children, including rehabilitation centres for disabled children. But since the current budget code does not contain this norm, there is no such funding. What has been the outcome? The outcome was this: They decided to finance the rehabilitation centre of the disabled at the expense of the Social Protection Fund’s budget. But that's impossible, that's wrong, because the budget of the Social Protection Fund consists of fines for not creating jobs for the disabled. That is why it can only be used to create additional places for the disabled, in which case the principle is: “Deliverance of the drowning — the cause of the drowning hands themselves”. Or the second example is the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. It contains article 20, which reads: “The authorities of the State and executive authorities, the local authorities of state and executive power and self - government, the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, within their competences, provide financial support to veteran organizations, loans at the expense of their respective budgets, as well as free of charge to provide homes, premises, equipment and other assets for their status tasks. However, since the budget code does not provide for this, there is no corresponding funding. What is the situation? The situation is that the leaders of the local authorities, referring to the Code of Budgets, refuse to finance the implementation of the law in force. Or if they do, they are criticized for violating the Codex Budget. Third point. I believe that the Budget Code should provide for the financing of regional social services centres for veterans, pensioners and disabled persons, the famous Cabinet of Ministers Order 1470 has created enormous problems for veterans, disabled persons and elderly people. And the fourth observation I'd like to make on behalf of the faction. We believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be restored as a higher legislative body, its inherent role in the budgetary process. Because really with the changes that are being proposed, somewhere in fact, the Supreme Council is removing this from the budgetary process -- it's wrong. The faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u113	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u114	The faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to support the draft revision of the Budget Code in the first reading. At the same time, he insists on taking into account the comments made in the process of preparing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready, Philippe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u116	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, dear Ukrainians, I am calling on you from this high rostrum to reflect on what has happened to this hall, which has adopted more than 300 votes in one budget code, where it has provided for more than 12,000 local budgets to be actually filled and actually funded. And now we're being brought back, not even in steel times, we're being brought back to even worse times. I'm asking, what happened this time? The same Supreme Council. It was the same Chechetov. The same Yanukovich was sitting here, sitting here, voting, and something happened! With what is interesting, the honourable friends you are now proposing, and unfortunately, even Mikola Derkac has just announced, he says, "In seven days, proposals should be made." What suggestions? You know, look, you're even being asked to make changes to the Civil Code, to the Code of Masters, to the Code of Administrative Offences -- and do all this without discussion, without consideration on the committees of profile. So you'd put on a lot of boots if you made them in the bridal?Oh, my God! They'd never wear boots like that. So this budget code, which you've prepared in this way, is absolutely something that needs to be worked out. But there are many things that deserve attention. Among them, for example, is a real estate tax. Yeah, yeah, don't be surprised. There was no tax on the draft Tax Code presented yesterday. We're out! The oligarchs feared that they would cover everything, commercial areas, businesses that had several thousand meters of housing. They were afraid. Now I'm reading to you. This is page four of the explanatory note, please. You write: it contains positions that have an impact on the budget, by setting up a new local tax, a real estate tax. And this is an increase in income of 300 million, 370 million dollars, you write, at the expense of that. Ladies and gentlemen, if there's no propaganda, I'll tell you. That could give 15 to 20 billion dollars to the budget! That's for you to know! Which you don't want to involve. Because it's not convenient for a big business. And I'm proposing to the Minister of Finance. Let's do this in civilized countries. Let's do it. But here it comes out that the documents that came out of one government are already falling apart. And now. I've been asking questions here. Why are we rambling on the Constitution?Oh, my God! Without consideration on the right committee, we cannot move on now!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u117	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich! As chairman, you said today that you are the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. You are to be in pain for the rights of the Supreme Council, for the rights of the national deputies not to be violated. They are in violation of this law. And the rights of the Head of the Budget Committee and of the entire committee. This codex needs to be redrafted. As Chechetov likes to say, for the first time again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u119	And you praised the codex, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u120	That's why I'm bragging, and I'm saying that's the first time I read again. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u121	Philippeko conveys the word Pisarenko. Please. To prepare, Zabarsky passes it to Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! In fact, the adoption of the budget code is quite clear, it's a question that we've been discussing here for over a year, we're taking something, but we're not coming to the end. Of course, reform of this system is necessary. And it needs to start with you and me losing the organs of local self-government if we don't move in that direction. Of course, it is important to pay first attention to what happens in places where local self - government authorities, which have authority today, do not have anything to do with them. What code we will adopt will still be decided on the second reading. And we realize that the adjustments that we should make will be made and done. Today we need to answer whether we are going to do this reform or not. It is quite clear that local self - government will not be able to live if we do not provide the mechanisms that will allow them to make money, and at the expense of which they will be able to receive the funding that will then be directed to all the social requirements that the village, districts, cities need today. It is quite clear that by granting authority to the Constitution to local self - government, we should have taken a second step and made it possible for us to exercise these powers. This step has not been taken for many years. And today what we are doing is just the first step towards local self-government; the first step is to think about how cities live today, not just how the capital lives, and how the central budget lives. Therefore, first - reading parliamentary support is needed today, a document called the Codex Budget. And our task with you is to develop it into a second reading so that there will be no warnings from the side, no opposition, no coalition. So let's vote on the first reading and go work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, Paul Sulkowski. Prestenko is passing it on to Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Minister Fedor Aleksyovich! In view of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a draft of the Ukrainian Budget Code, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is systematically linked to the government draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code, it is considered appropriate to use it as a basis for considering a bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine which systematically regulates the relevant social relations. [[Registration number 6495]] [[Registration number 6509]] The orange powers of the previous five years have developed absolutely nothing about reforms by their government and the President, not according to the Budget and Tax Codes. Today, the Shadow Prime Minister here in the rostrum of 10 or 15 minutes began to feel that these projects would make the lives of local authorities and communities worse. That distinguished Prime Minister, but as you were in power for five years, you proved the lives of local authorities and communities that had virtually nothing to buy paper for. So, I think we'll see about a year after the adoption of these two codes, both fiscal and fiscal. I'm convinced that in the 11th year, these projects really regulate both the budget and the tax, and the belief that all the budgets at all levels will be satisfied with the system that we're putting into practice today. And so I'd like to ask everyone who's not supposed to be here today to end up playing a populist game, because in almost the last five years, they've led the country almost to the brink of default, almost brought it to the brink. And we need to thank today's government, which, in fact, in such a difficult budgetary situation, brings the situation to a level of stability, and we need to stop lying to you, ladies and gentlemen, and not interfere. And we're going to live five years, just like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u125	Thank you, thank you. Finish up. But two words, no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u126	In five years, you have brought the country to ruin, five years later, I am convinced that life will be beautiful, the people of Ukraine will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u127	Alla Alexandrovska. Prepare Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I believe that all present share the optimism of the previous speaker. We really do. We are confident that all of us really want the people of Ukraine to live better, and I hope that the Budget Code and the reform of the budget system itself will indeed bring about such positive moments. The positive aspects of the proposed draft budget code include, above all, strengthening the role of local councils through an increase and financial base. Without money, there really is no power, and we all know it. At the expense of the proposed new positions, local councils will receive an additional 23 billion bracelets, an additional means that can be directed towards the development of the Territories. Of course, a part of the profit tax is at the disposal of local councils. The local authorities will therefore be interested in supporting entrepreneurship, large business, small business, and interested in lagging, hugging and supporting them rather than oppressing them and, as they sometimes say, press. It is also appropriate to change the timetable of the budgetary process. We need to ensure normal conditions for both budget formulation and adoption. We should not have a shortage of time for such a serious issue. It's very difficult to speak in an attempt to call on a Moskal deputy. It's very difficult, but I'll try to do it anyway. It is also positive that the Government seeks to ensure that budgetary expenditure is managed and monitored in the accounting and monitoring system. Public reports in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of the budget of the Chief Executives by heads of ministries and departments should also be supported. But the unacceptable position of the Government's draft budget code is the proposal to reduce the impact of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the budgetary committee and the people's deputies on the budgetary process. For the Supreme Council, the formation of a Government is an informal fact. The Supreme Council should have effective powers to monitor government activities, including the management of the budgetary process and the monitoring of the implementation of the State budget. Nor should the rights of budgetary organizations be restricted to the use of their own resources by directing them to development, to the establishment of a modern material base and, of course, the desire to determine the level of social security of certain categories of citizens, which are defined by Ukrainian laws, be replaced by government regulations. There are also some criticisms about the proposals on how people's deputies should work on the budget. I think all our proposals will be presented and I hope that they will be taken into account both by the budgetary committee and by the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Microphone Valery Suškević. Get ready, Georgik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u130	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I will refrain from making general assessments of the Budget Code, I will say. I'm going to say specific things about how, like, I'm the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I want to speak to Jaroshenko Fedor Alexiyovich. Feder Alexiyovich, I would like to draw attention to the Budget Code in the section that I mentioned, including my committee colleague, Cibenko Petr Stepanovich, on the financing of the entire country's national inter-regional centres for professional rehabilitation of disabled children and the State Centres for Social Rehabilitation of Disabled Children. The point is that there is now a rule in the Budget Code that is declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the Budget Code amends the basic Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities. We have once recognized that this is not an easy practice when one law makes other changes to other laws, including social laws. This is the basic law of our committee. I want to say that the nature of the maintenance, the financing of the maintenance of rehabilitation centers, the internal institutions. It's now absolutely 100% for any budget, of course it has the nature of financing the general fund of the state budget. And today, I'm sorry to put disability rehabilitation centres on a special government budget fund that is based on employers' accounting for job creation, which is contrary to existing legislation, and this is once again recognized by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional. I ask you to pay attention to this amendment. Moreover, it does not appear in the very text of the Codex Budget. It is written in the “Final Positions” as amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. Please go back to this situation and finance these centres from the state budget general fund, as this is perfectly harmonized with the current budget legislation. I would also like to draw attention to article 55, where the protected articles of the State Budget have been written. There is a situation that is determined by prosthetics. I thank you for this article, after all. from the list of protected articles. But they missed an article that financed medical supplies for the disabled. It's also hearing aids, it's urethras and squids, it's other devices and medical devices that relate to the dignity of a person associated with his disability. You can't miss this. And I'm asking you to include it and predict it. I want to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Jojik. And he had his time of six minutes. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u132	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In recent months, Ukrainian society has witnessed the usurpation of power in virtually all spheres of social life. Today, since this version of the Budget Code, we have witnessed attempts to usurp power in government finances by the executive body of our state, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I understand the delicacy of the head of the Committee on Budgets of the wise, decent, professional husband of Derek Mikola Ivanovich, who was forced to support this bill, despite the fact that this bill actually removes Parliament, the budget committee from the budget process. Why can I say that? If we compare today's current and proposed version of this bill, note that today the Cabinet of Ministers is giving the main thrusts of budgetary policy, and after public hearings the Supreme Council is taking these basic directions of budgetary policy. It is proposed that the Cabinet approve the declaration of budgetary policy and then hold public hearings and accept recommendations, apparently to which no one will listen. The co-report does not have the authority of the budget committee and the head of the budget committee, and it does not even foresee the right to reject the bill, there is no third reading, credit agreements will become effective without ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The code gives the heads of administration the right to make changes regarding the redistribution of inter-budget transfers. And the question is, what happens if these changes made by the head of the administration in the future are not approved by the appropriate sessions of the councils? After that, the head of the administration is likely to be criminally responsible. The bill is not sent to the past by a stabilization fund, which is not managed by hand, which is not only lazy in our country, since it is mentioned in this document and does not have a procedure for its use. Article 54 gives the Minister of Finance a single right to make changes to the budget schedule. And article 23, “Modifying the structure and scope of budgetary allocations”, was decided only by the Cabinet of Ministers without any involvement, not only in Parliament, but also in the Committee on Budgets. The question is, if such enormous powers are given to the Cabinet of Ministers and what control is given to this process. I would like to remind you that the President of Ukraine's Economic Reform Programme declares its desire to open public access to fiscal reporting. However, the proposed project, compared with the existing codex, does not take a step in this direction. The Ukrainian People’s Party insists that Minfin’s requirements be placed on its website for monthly planning at appropriate institutions responsible for the mobilization of funds into the state budget with appropriate treasury reports. In this case, we will be able to stop the shameful practice of trying to manipulate information about the actual state of implementation of the state budget. The Ukrainian People's Party has always advocated administrative and territorial reform and the transfer of stable sources of revenue, as well as maximum powers to the primary territorial communities. But the government is re-imposing a draft budget code without administrative and territorial reform. And while the government's economic reform programme also declares it, in the draft amendments to the Law to the Budget Code, the provision of district inter-budgetary relations remains to be redeemed by district government administrations. This does not create the conditions for the maximum transfer of powers to the primary territorial communities, at least for those who have more than 5,000 people who can manage money effectively. Today, this bill is a kind of lakh paper on Parliament’s ability to be a parliament. Dear colleagues, we must realize that with the adoption of today's Budget Code and the possible adoption of the Tax Code beyond the changes to the Constitution, the Ukrainian State will turn from the parliamentary-presidential republic into a government-presidential republic, but you can still influence that today. So first of all, I'm talking to the coalition members to re-route.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! Today, we are considering a bill on changes in the Budget Code. We've heard a lot of speeches from this rostrum, we've heard speeches from both professionals and people who are professionals on this issue, and we've heard the views of the populists -- people who take the flag shouting, but they don't understand what they're talking about. I will speak in a simple and clear language, the main points that lie in the reform of the Ukrainian economy today. The first and main issue of what was done by the Party of the Regions and its team was the adoption of Ukraine's Social Economic Development Programme. Based on this programme, the Budget Code and the Tax Codes are being developed. These three core documents provide a transparent, understandable, predictable model for economic development. It is these documents that enable local councils to receive additional income, and these bills include a motivational mechanism for local government. But could a healthy person criticize a bill that allows for 20 per cent of income from local budgets. Would a person who cares about local self - government say that this is bad? Is it bad to get 50 per cent of over-expenditures in local budgets? I think that the people who have spoken about this or not read the Budget Code have not been familiar with these bills and have read documents prepared by them and their assistants who have the same low qualifications as themselves. In this case, I would like to give specific examples of the professionalism of the team that has developed the documents and which has proved that these bills can be implemented. The budget was adopted in a concise manner, as promised here by Prime Minister Nikolay Janović Azarov of Ukraine. A budget was adopted with a minimum possible budget deficit, with maximum growth rates for gross national product, with maximum growth rates for industrial production and the agro-industry sector. Moreover, the real figures for the first half of the year, in five months, exceeded even at the rate of growth the decline that had occurred.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u135	Thank you, have a seat, please. I'd like to ask my honourable colleagues to discuss the issue, not to engage in agitation, because you're three minutes of agitation, and in the end, you want to talk about the bill. Dear colleagues, the deputy from BUT Pisarenko spoke, he did not speak to anyone! Please, the final word of the Minister of Finance, Feder Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u136	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to you for discussing such an important bill and I want to promise you what I will do, all the efforts that you have made to make the proposals that are diverse, on the one hand, on the one hand, radical. But I've heard all of you, and I'm going to work on all of your suggestions to report them to you in the second reading and to take into account that the Budget Code really is a tool for a new generation to stabilize all inter-budget, financial and other relationships. Here. As to the questions you asked, I probably didn't want to answer them right now, so there were a lot of them. Well, I'll just give you an example that there wasn't a stable fund in the old code, or in the new one. So this stabilization fund was introduced by the anti-crisis law, which is about to end. Therefore, the draft amendments to the Tax Code do not contain a number of other factors. But what I'm trying to say is that the thoughts that have been heard about the decline in the economy are inappropriate. I have a total of 5 months -- the industrial output growth index for today is 12.6 percent. Real GDP also increases by 4.8 percent in 4 months, at projected 3.7. There's no official statistics in five months. But the indicators that are planned, they're going to be implemented and they're going to be overrun. So I'd like to ask you again to vote and support the bill that I reported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u138	Thank you. I'll try to get into these moments. And the only thing I want to insist on. In fact, today, I think there's been a discussion that allows us to look at three draft documents. And I want to emphasize it again. The first project that Parliament approved was a project that envisions 12,000 budgets. And this was clearly recorded in this document. Another project. This is a government project with 700 budgets and an old system. Except that local councils rely on additional authorizations that directly relate to the cost of transport tariffs that were previously directly financed. And so far they're funded from the central budget. This is a direct expense on local councils that have been relying since the following year on low - income citizens. And we can continue this list. And there's a project that doesn't even involve changing the system of 12,000 local budgets, clearly anchoring the expenditures and revenues of the local budgets to balance the local budgets so that they don't depend on any good or bad will of any political power that's in the office of the Bank or the office of Gruszewski. That's why we're not suggesting in any way cutting off the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in terms of development and budget control, which is directly recorded in the government project. And this is, in my opinion, a trend where the second legislative act in the last two weeks cuts off such powers in the Supreme Council. And the second. We suggest in this situation that we adopt our project on the basis of making it possible for those decisions that were directly prepared, and I have once again analyzed the whole package of government decisions. Each second standard is copied from a project in Timoshenko, but all the powers of local councils have been circumcised. You can see that clearly. And this will allow local councils to develop rather than to run around constantly asking for taxes from the central budget. And the last. It is unacceptable when the income of the central budget and the taxes directly related to the central budget are paid off to local councils. This is the way to nowhere. This is the way to corruption. This is the way to create non-lethal competitive environments for the same development of any small, medium or large business. And that's exactly what we're insisting that they be removed from the government project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We are, indeed, those who have participated in the discussion, united in the need for the adoption of the new Codex Budget. And it has been rightly said here that in its time the Supreme Council has already adopted one budget code, which has not become a new edition of the new budget code. That is, both the political power and the political power, despite the diversity of approaches, are aware of the need to adopt this important document. And today's discussion of two projects, both government and alternative to opposition, highlights once again that the entire session hall, as well as society, are awaiting new rules of the budget game. Another thing is how they're going to be written, and how we're going to accept them in the final version. So I would ask, really, to summarize the discussion, to turn for just two of the most plausible moments, not to mention the details, because each of you will have the opportunity to submit your proposals to the second reading within 14 days. First and foremost. I would like all of us, both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, to realize, without restoring the rights and opportunities of the Constitutional Supreme Council on budgetary processes in the second reading, the budget code will not be supported. [[Applause]] And two, which is also important. I'd like a profile committee, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, to find a way out of this situation. The Budget Code, if we adopt it governmentally, has an addition to the Budget Code in the form of amendments to other laws and codes. So I would probably ask that we give or change the name of the document, because the title of the paper on amending the budget code, and the other one we can't do according to the name, but it's better that we don't change the name, because we're not taking any changes to the budget code, we're taking a new edition, the new budget code. So it's probably better for the second reading to divide these two issues and one, we're adopting the Budget Code, and the second, we're adopting amendments and additions to those bills that are planned here in the second part. Yeah? This will be better, and it will be cleaner and more legal and practical. This is what I was going to say, summarizing these two major problems that we must consider. And now, as a result of the discussion, I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, government. [[Registration number 6495]] Please vote. [[13:34:19]] For 252 Decision taken. I'd like to ask, let's thank everyone who's been involved in this discussion, and I'd like to take this up again, and I would like to stress, the committee with a view to drawing attention to these two fundamental moments. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! With these changes, we are now amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Code of Masters, the Civil Code, and many other laws. I would ask, Adam Ivanovich, to give a mandate now, this is completely out of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, to assign to all the professional committees concerned, to consider on their committees changes to the relevant laws and to give their conclusions. Without that, it would be illegal. We already took it illegally because it was broken here, you said in your statement that the Constitution had been violated by the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budgets, under the authority of the People's Deputies. This also requires that the Committee of Legal Policy, Sergio Mishchenka, be given a general conclusion on this document. And don't let any cutbacks. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u141	Thank you. In the short term, we did not vote and this does not allow us to do so in the Law of the Rules, 116 articles, here we did not break. As far as you're concerned, this is the second reading, let the committees work, but not the committee, the subject of the legislative initiative. Each of the deputies and only each of the deputies, not the committee, have the right to amend, so I urge all of you to join in. Anyone who wants to do this, let them write their opinions. Let's get to it. And, dear fellows, I'm going on for 15 minutes so that you and I can still do what we have to do at 12:30. Let us turn to the question “On the election and release of judges”. Please, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, head of the Justice Committee. A draft Supreme Council Decision on the election of judges, Bill 6538, is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! On 2 and 16 June 2010, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice held its meetings on June 16, 2010, considered the submission of the Supreme Court, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis, and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis, and the application of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general circumstances and in connection with the violation of an oath. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[6538]] The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Kyiv's Court of Appeal – Sulima Vladislav Volodymyrovich; The Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Oleg Ivanovich's Association; The railway district court of Simferopol – Slezka Timur Vasilovich; The Primorski District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk Region of Panteliev Dmitra Hennadiyovich; The proletarian district court of Donetsk Masendić Vasil Vasilovic; The Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye County, Desert Zha Pavlovna; Nomikolayev District Court of Zaporozhye District, Shisha Anton Borisovich; The Kyiv District Court of Odessa Tavartkiladze Alexandr Mesenović; Malinovac District Court of Odessa Prederk Dmitr Petrovich; The Pyratitinian District Court of Poltava County, Corsun Oksana Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u143	Yes, please, Gordien. Corsun, right? Okay. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u144	The Plain City Court of Ravenna district of Alexyuk Hanna Evgenyevna, Rudik Larissa Dmitrovna, Sidoruk Evgen Ivanovich; The Grand Duchy of the Suma District Court of Seminovo Oksana Sergiyevna; Dergachev District Court of the Bobok district of Evgen Anatoliyovich; The Provincial District Court of the Gypsy District of Gypsy Sergey Ilarianovich; The hops of the Regional Court of Hmielnicky Volodymyr Anatoliyovich; Township District Court of the Cherka district of Savenko Oksana Mikolayevna; Korzuk Tetjana Petrovna, District Court of Corzuk, District Court of Montenegro; Shevchenkov District Court of Kyiv Pritulu Natalija Grigorovna the military local court of the Sevastopol garrison of Batrak Vitali Volodymirovich; and Donetsk District Administrative Court Stiran Vitali Vasilovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u145	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. So, your honor, I'm voting on the Supreme Council Order on the Election of Judges, registration number 6538, with the exception of the judge of the Pyratin District Court of Poltavian District of Corsun Oksana Mikolayovna. Please vote. [[13:41:14]] For 332 It's been decided. Please, Gordon Sergey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u146	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Chief, dear colleagues, I have already argued twice in this room why Corsun's candidacy cannot be supported. I submitted the official statistics to the committee meeting. I respect his decision, but I ask the session room to make a separate determination of this candidate. And I would like all the factions, when they vote, to think very, very hard about how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u147	Yes, thank you. Please, which one of you is older? By age, who's older than you? Filipenko, please, chicken microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u148	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, have repeatedly considered this judge’s candidacy. And all I've set up is there's absolutely no reason not to recommend this judge. The only thing in the judge's case is the civil case for setting up a share of the joint property that she couldn't complete because she ran out of authority. And someone on the side of this case is certainly interested and thus trying to make sure that the judge does not listen further. So I want to say that the decision of the committee is clear, and this judge needs to be recommended on an untimely basis. And I urge everyone to vote again. With respect to my colleague, Mr. Gordijenko, I received those documents that he handed over to the committee, and I also considered them with colleagues, and it was unanimous that the judge should be recommended that the judge be elected on an open-ended basis. So I ask you to support everyone with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. You've listened to the remark. Well, please, Gordien, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I would not like the previous speaker to focus on a particular matter. I've given the statistics, even confirmed the data. And that's why we don't have to mix a particular matter up here. The 56 cases tried by the judge were dismissed or dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u151	Communication took place. I am voting for the election of an untimely judge of the Pirate District Court of Poltava County of Corsun Oksana Mikolayovna. [[13:44:04]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Please proceed to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[concerning the selection of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis]] Registration number 6538-1. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u152	The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Malinín Viktor Volodymyrovich, Sitnkov Aleksandra Fedorovich, Fedotovic; [[I'm sorry.]] Kharkiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Bondar Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Please support this draft decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any comments on the candidates. So, with your permission, I'm voting on the Supreme Council's decision to elect judges for registration number 6538-1. Please vote. [[13:45:22]] For 352 Decision taken. We are considering a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the dismissal of judges. [[concerning the release of a judge on general grounds]] Registration number 6539. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u154	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine apply for the dismissal of judges: The Supreme Court of Ukraine – Barsukov Valentina Mikhailovna, the Economic Court of the Hersonian Region – Rubin Ida Vasilovna. Please support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u155	I don't see any objection, I'm voting on Bill 6539, the Order on the Liberation of Judges. Please vote. [[13:46:19]] For 331 Decision taken. We're looking at the draft Judges Release Order, Registration Number 6539-1. [[on the release of judges in connection with the violation of an oath]] Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u156	The committee recommends that in connection with a violation of an oath to release judges: The Supreme Court of Ukraine, Volkova Aleksandra Fedorovich; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Polishchuk Svetlan Volodymyrna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Baranek Igor Ivanovich; The Shining District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Mustat Antonina Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u157	Sergey Vasilovich, please stop, I understand there is a denial of Volkov and Baranenko. About the procedure then, I'm just about the last names, please continue. Sergey Vasilovich, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u158	The factory district court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Stasovska Ludmila Ivanovna; Voroshilovsk District Court of Donetsk Mishchenka Hennady Autonomovich; Zgurov district court of the Kyiv district of Palamarczuk Valentine Ivanovna; The Fastev Regional Court of Kyiv district of Ostachnovitch, Andrija Valentinović; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Demchenka Alexander Mikolayovich; Seminal District Court of Poltava District of Sudru Viktor Ivanovich; Spolyan district court of the Cherka district of Kiselova Tetjana Mikolayevna And the Holy District Court of Kiev, Babic Nina Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u159	There's a denial about Babic. Ladies and gentlemen, please report to the factions within a minute. Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u160	Please pass the word to Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u161	Vlasenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to remind you that last Thursday, when we considered essentially the same question, we considered it separately in each court and the vote took place not by one vote, but by one package, but by each judge separately. So I would like us to keep this tradition in mind when we release the judges for breaking our oaths, so that we can vote each judge separately, as it has already done in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u163	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, we have indeed considered last week the list of judges who should have taken the decision to dismiss them. And then there were claims, in part to the committee that some judge had not been reported and so on. And then we agreed on a full procedure, which we give another week, and regardless of the judge's arrival, he doesn't arrive, the committee makes the final verdict, and the room votes. I therefore think that the procedure is fully respected, which honors the Committee, as much as possible, transparently and objectively, gives us reason to put the entire list to the vote and by one vote to all issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u165	Please, Philippe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u166	I ask you to pass the word to the scribe, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u167	Thank Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your distinguished colleagues, we have really shown you last time that Parliament is ready to comply with the requirements that are being set in Parliament today. And we have come to the point that all those judges who have been sick and on vacation on a regular basis today will be reintroduced into Parliament. And I want to tell you that the situation has not changed again. And we turned to the committee, and to the law enforcement agencies and hospitals, we want to find out how individual judges are in Paris and New York at the same time have evidence that they are at the hospital for treatment. As for the procedure, we today have all the legal powers to vote for the release of these judges. That's the first one. And the second. Indeed, in the practice of Parliament, we have always voted on the list if there are no remarks about judges. So let us, if any comments are made by judges, take them out and let others vote by list.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u169	Matthew Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u170	I don't think we can compare the judge's claim to the post and the removal of the list here, so we decide the fate of the person. And if every MP doesn't know what's going on, why they're taking off, what violations and oaths of judges this judge is being released from office and, in fact, he has to be brought to justice, I think we can't just take a list. Every MP has the right to know what he will vote for. With all confidence in the members of the Committee, I believe that each MP must use his or her parliamentary powers to know and decide on the fate of the individual.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u171	Thank you. I repeat: I had to write down or ask for word from the faction. That's what you want -- it's not enough, we have to follow the Rules. Please. Dear colleagues! Let's consult with those who say that we really have to vote for each other separately. I'm here to support you. But maybe let's do it this way, because we have a point of view to three judges, we're going to look at them separately. If you don't object to those judges whose release is unwarranted, we will vote on the list. And then each of the three will not only vote separately but also listen to the arguments and the judges involved and the arguments of the national MPs. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u172	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u173	Is such a proposal supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u174	Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u175	Then, with your permission, with your permission, I would like to stress once again that I am putting to the vote the Bill of Order 6539-1 on the release of judges on the exception of: Volkova – Supreme Court of Ukraine, Baranenko – Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal and Babic – Holy District Court of Kiev. Did I call them all? Mishenko? And Mishchenko. All right, and Mishchenko is the Voroshilovsky District Court of Donetsk. All of it. With the exception of these four names, I am voting on the decision-making as a whole, please vote. [[13:53:51]] For 354 I'll take the order. And now we're going to talk about each candidate specifically. Let's do it this way. Since the Supreme Council of Justice is the initiator of the release of judges in connection with the oaths, I am literally brief, each individual should be informed by the High Council of Justice, the Head of the High Council of Justice. Then we will listen to the judge in question, and then we will exchange our thoughts, and we will make decisions individually. Please refer to the dismissal of Supreme Court judge Volkova Alexandr Fedorovich. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, head of the High Council of Justice, what argument do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u176	Volkov Alexander Fedorovich, judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine What is the problem? In violation of the law, Supreme Ukrainian judge Volkov took direct part in the review of the case law by the Supreme Court of Ukraine of judgements, decisions, judgments, and the approval of the court, which was personally approved by the first appeal body.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u177	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please wait. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, if you'd like to listen. Andrew! If you want to hear the question? Yes. If you don't want to listen, I can put it to a vote. Wait, please! Well, do you want to? If you don't want me to vote. Then let anyone who does not want to hear and come out of the session room. Please continue. Carry on, Volodymyr Mikolajovich. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u178	We're moving on, aren't we? In violation of the law, Judge Volkov of the Supreme Court of Ukraine took direct part in the review of the case law by the Supreme Court of Ukraine of judgements, rulings, rulings, the approval of the court, which, on the first appeal, approved personally and in the composition of a panel of judges, his close relative, his wife’s brother, Judge Baranenko. I did not accept complaints of cassation without payment by the court and stopped the execution of the legal decisions of the courts of the first instance, causing raids on three businesses. Yes, in the case of the title TOV “Plato Develoment”, TOV “Metal-Invest” and illegally discovered the conduct and stopped for 18 months the decision of the District Court, which led to the raid and liquidation of the Mineral-Invest Society by reinstatement as director of the former company manager. At the same time, Judge Volkov, showing interest, kept his right before the Supreme Court and did not refer it to the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region. The second case in the name of Stepan's Dogodun, where he is also a party to "Mineral-Invest" without any legal basis, revealed the cassational conduct, essentially continued the validity of the apparently illegal inadvertent decision of the district court by making it impossible for him to appeal during the year, which led to the liquidation of the enterprise. I would like to point out that the court ruled in absentia, which has a special appeal procedure, namely, if such a decision is made, it is also appealed to the same court that ruled and the judge is obliged to determine whether or not they cancel to consider the party’s participation. The Supreme Court judge, with such experience of work, deliberately makes a cassation complaint, stops the legal court’s decision, thus allowing the company to continue its raid. Furthermore, I would like to point out that when it is explained that a spouse’s brother is not a relative, and when an appeal judge deals with these matters repeatedly, what independent court and impartiality can be discussed? Therefore, the High Council of Justice, at its meeting, made a proposal supported by the committee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u179	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Volkov Alexander Fedorovich, please come to the microphone. To the microphone. Three minutes, if you have anything to say, please. You have the opportunity for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u180	Excuse me? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I am sorry that yesterday, 13 members of the Justice Committee supported the application of the High Council of Justice to release me from court for violating my oath. And unfortunately, these accusations are based on my professional activities, on cases that I have been looking at as a judge for 26 years. It's about four cases, discussed in 2003-2004, where I'm being accused of taking self-registration in civil, criminal cases, as if being prejudiced about the actions of Judge Baranjanka, who is really my wife's brother. But in the case of the Supreme Council of Justice, the law that came into force in September 2005 is cited as a violation. In 2003-2004, believe me, I couldn't have known this would be the law. And the only way to get out of here is by law. This is decided by the College of Judges. All decisions before the Supreme Court were made in a collegiate manner, consisting of 3-5 judges. Pointing to the same point, during the same period of these four cases, the Superior Council of Justice does not, for some reason, mention a few other cases where, with my participation in the College of Judges in this court, the rulings have been annulled. What kind of prejudice might this be? Moreover, this is defined by articles 54 and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has not changed, and by the old edition of the Code of Civil Procedure. With regard to two cases in 2006. I'm being accused of unwarrantedly opening up cassational conduct in the matter of cassation. So I'm sorry, it's my job to open a cassation hearing on the cassation complaints that come before the court. Believe me, it was not my fault that in 2006 one case was delayed for 18 months, at which time the case was considered for 2-3 years, for which the Supreme Council passed a special law on the referral of cases to the Courts of Appeal in 2007. Again, I am being charged with a violation of this law that did not refer one of these cases to the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal. I could not bring her to an appeal court because she had been brought to trial, and the law of 2007 prohibited it. As for the first case, it was brought before the court in order to determine the order in which the order was made to refer the case to the court. As for the proximity of the offspring. As a lawyer, I cannot agree, since I can call my brother a close relative, my wife is also a close relative. What, then, should we do with the marriage? Whether or not it's already happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u181	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u182	A moment of inheritance, of retention. This seems to be a mistake. I didn’t hide anything, hide anything, fill out declarations and information in accordance with the requirements of the personnel that were required to check it and verify it in accordance with all the documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u183	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Please sign up for a minute from the factions. The MPs want it first. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u184	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I think we have devoted sufficient time to addressing these personnel issues, and the situation in the Hall is clear. And now it is difficult to say that one of the deputies will change his mind because we have not heard such a harsh argument that could radically refute the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, in order not to delay time, please put to the vote and let the room be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u185	Please, Moses wants to speak from the rostrum. Get an oil man ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u186	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. The Honorable Adam Ivanovich, the Honourable Colleagues, is a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and I myself, as a former judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, have never stood up for judges, villains, who have corrupted the title of the judge, the law to be governed, but right now I have read the explanation of the judge and the individual opinion of another member of the High Council of Justice. Alexander Fedorovich and the Head of the High Council of Justice are focusing on court cases where a brother-in-law, or as it should be rightly called, was a judge in the case. But respectable colleagues, there is another side to the medal. Alexander Fedorovich Volkov was elected a member of the High Council of Justice, and he was then tried by Palius, who was dismissed from his post as a member of the High Council of Justice. In fact, there are no judicial errors in this court, but politics has been played around by a member of the High Council of Justice. And here he is a year and a year and a half from now he's not making an oath, and Palius is suing or deciding what he's going to be a member of the High Council of Justice, and we want to have a hearing with the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u187	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u188	If there are any failures, your honorary colleagues, in a judge like each one of us, as in every judge, it is a terrible punishment for 26 years to work as a lawyer and a judge, where fate has been decided. Well, if you took bribes, tell me about it. I ask you to remember, stop on this road between fighting and eating and getting killed. Orderly, my lord, in the Supreme Council of Justice, the very council of justice, for you are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u189	Thank you. That's a little bit from another opera. Please, Oily.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, what's going on now? The head, not the head, but the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, until the decision has been taken, explains the country as a whole that he did not know that laws would change and that he would not be able to participate in the case that his relative was considering. This is not established by law, this is the principle on which justice is built. It is a sad thing that a judge who has reached the Supreme Court has to this day found out the theoretical question. The principle of justice, especially for Volkov, I want to say, is the impartiality and impartiality of the judge. You have violated the principle, you have established a family clan in the judicial system, and you have deprived other people of the ability beyond your family clan to maintain justice, or access to justice, and now you are telling the public because it is broadcast, and the judges and others see it right. So what I'm saying is that we need to study the principles on which justice is based, it's primary, and the laws are really changing. And looking there now is not a way out of the law, nor is it a worthy course of action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u191	Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u192	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. You know, honourable national deputies, Your Honor, I have two feelings right now. Double because I asked questions yesterday at the Committee meeting, Alexander Fedorovich Volkov, whether he felt any moral discomfort from what happened, because from a formal point of view, a man, that is, a woman's brother, is not a violation of the Criminal Procedure Code or the Civil Procedure Code. But from a moral point of view, and as a member of the High Council of Justice, and as a judge of the Supreme Court, apparently, Alexander Fedorovich, as a judge, I want to tell you, you had yesterday on the committee to say, and you might find the courage to say that “I understand that such a conflict of interest cannot be, even in the mind of allowing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u193	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u194	Dear National Deputies! That's why I'm not voting for Volkov's release. I think I need him. His life was warned, he's now in hospital, Lieutenant General, leading a military college. [[There's only three men.]] You can't destroy military courts, you can't destroy a colleague, but he has to understand. And I'd like to hear, Alexander Fedorovich, that you've come to the conclusion of what I just said. I think you've got me. And I think we are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u195	Thank you. We understand you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, please, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, 3 minutes. Please. Sergey Vasilovich became head of the committee after Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I smiled in connection with the situation, but I am so bitter, I'll tell you, it's been a long time. What's Volkov getting fired for? I'll tell you why: honesty, integrity, justice and courage. That's why he's getting fired. Who's releasing him? Those who have long forgotten these virtues. You probably heard it when it was 2003, 2004, 2005, business. He himself did not consider the case; he considered three judges of the Supreme Court. Who knows his opinion, since it is an advisory room, but there is a secret counseling room, and there is no conversation, judgment, thought? Maybe he was thinking differently. And the two judges made that decision. He was obliged to sign. Next, dear colleagues. He is said to have been a close relative of Judge Baranenko. It is said that this legislation does not provide for anything. I've adopted the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine. [[Article 32]] So that we don't fantasize here, listen to me. “Near relatives are parents, wife, children, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren” - dot. No brother-in-law, no brother-in-law, no one else. This codex has been preserved until now. Next, dear colleagues. You know, it's bitter. It's been seven years, six years. Even criminals have statutes of limitations. The judge is called to account within six months. You realize that we want to celebrate in this hall today. You can do anything. But I ask you, by illegal acts, the more Parliament, the rule of law will never be established. This is the second time I've done it here. I'm asking you to identify yourself. You define the fate of a man. A man who worked for 25 years in a court of law. And who has given us today the right to evaluate the decisions of the Supreme Court? There is a European Court of Justice. Under exceptional circumstances, the Supreme Court can review its own decisions. I don't think we can do that. You know, there was a reason why the detention was called a detention. I came to the Supreme Court with my head. 55,000 cases were in the Supreme Court. And it was here that you passed the law, and I am grateful that we sent every appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u197	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u198	Three seconds. What could Volkow have done when there was a commission all year, signed every case, and sent to the Supreme Court? What are we firing him for today? I'll tell you why, I already told you. It's a blow to the Supreme Court, it's a blow to justice, to Ukrainian society, at the end of the day -- and to yourself! I'm sorry for the emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u199	Thank you. Please have the committee's opinion and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, dear friends! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Justice Committee, we considered carefully the issue of Alexander Fedorovich Volkovi, Judge of the Supreme Court. And I want to tell you that we voted unanimously for the dismissal of Volkov. Volkov, as a judge of the Military College of the Supreme Court in violation of existing legislation, has taken a direct part in the review of judgements, judgements, decisions of the courts, which, at the first and appellate hearings, were handed down by his close relative and his brother, Baranenko Igor Ivanović, who will soon be considered as a member of the panel. It is also interesting that in Volkov's personal case, the fact that he was related to Judge Baranenko was hidden, both of them. I would like to quote to you, dear colleagues, article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits a judge from feeling guilty in the case of: “if the judge is directly or indirectly interested in the outcome of the case. If the judge is a close relative of the parties or other persons who take part in the proceedings. It is prohibited to take part in the proceedings if there are any circumstances which call into question the objectivity and impartiality of the judge.” I think there's no doubt in this case that the Volks were obliged, I stress, to declare themselves self-sustainment. There has never been a self-sustainment by the Volks, in fact it is referred to here as being discussed in the family contract room. That is why the Committee of the Supreme Council made such a decision in a thorough review yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! We've had a detailed discussion, please, Master of the Minute, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u202	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. Sergey Vasilovich, indeed correctly pointed out that the committee had taken the decision unanimously, but it should be noted that at this point five members of the committee had come out of the committee hall because they understood what the decision would be and wanted to vote against it and demonstrated it. I mean, just to be clear, there was no unanimous decision on Volkov yesterday at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues! These are the details, right Sergey Vasilovich, because those who were voting at the time all voted unanimously. Those who voted with their feet are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u204	Our colleagues decided to disrupt the meeting and left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u205	I am voting on the decision to release the judge in connection with the violation of an oath, the dismissal of Supreme Court Judge Volkova Alexandr Fedorovich. [[14:15:40]] For 247 Decision taken. Let's go, please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u206	Three judges and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u207	I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we finish the discussion on the three candidates that are here, determined and then announced the break. It may be wrong to wait two more hours for people to decide their fate. Please support such an offer. [[14:16:41]] For 249 Please, colleagues, it's too serious. Igor Ivanovich Baranenko, Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal Please, just briefly, what are the comments of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u208	Baranenko Igor Ivanovich, Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal In 2009, in the case of a court-martial of the High Court of Agriculture, Pallium to the District Administrative Court for an unlawful conviction and for the annulment of the decision of the Eighth Extraordinary Assembly of Ukraine on the termination of the terms of office of a member of the High Council of Justice of the Palliums and the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice, Volkov Aleksandra Fedorovich. The situation is similar: In 2009, he takes a close relative and continues to listen, to make decisions. In accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality, it is stated that a judge cannot take part in a child’s case and is dismissed if he is a member of a family or a close relative: a husband, a wife, a father, a mother, a stepmother, a son, a daughter, a stepdaughter, a stepdaughter, a brother, a sister, a grandparent, a grandchild, a granddaughter, a adoptive father, an adoptive father, a caregiver, a family member, or a close relative of that family. Imagine a situation: Volkov was in court, and the brother - in - law was listening. That's what I was going to say. We consider the breach to be a major breach of an oath. Please support the application of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u209	Yes, thank you. Please, Igor Ivanovich Baranenko present? Onopenko, a minute, please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u210	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Listen further to what is happening in the courtroom today. First, Baranenko filed a complaint that he was seriously ill in the hospital lying, well, don't pay any attention, don't address him. The other one. It was a decision to convene judges in Ukraine. It was a party convention decision. Tell me, when and when did the judges consider the question, Is the right decision to take off? Tell me, tomorrow the gatherings will be held – it's a self-governing organization, the convention took place four years ago, and that's it. The council was one of the judges, she's gone. There is a lawsuit against the assembly, up to 500 judges who are on the assembly and who make decisions. And today we accuse the judge of closing this case. Here is the ruling of the plenary of the Supreme Court, which has made it clear that these cases are not judicial, that you need more evidence to make the right decision objective here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u211	Thank you. Is that the way to discuss it? So what's the committee's decision? Sergei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! Here's a chart, we've invited Igor Ivanovich, the Lamb, six times in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Justice, never showed up. Twice, the High Council of Justice had been held and invited to a meeting, and it had not appeared either. Twice considered on the Committee. I therefore propose to support the decision of the Supreme Council of Justice to dismiss Baranek Igor Ivanovich for breaking his oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u213	I am voting on the proposal to release the judge of the Kiev Court of Appeal in connection with the violation of Baranko Igor Ivanovich’s oath. [[14:20:37]] For 248 Decision taken. Yes, please, Vorosilovsky District Court of Donetsk, Mishchenko Hennady Autonomous. The Supreme Council of Justice, please, Vladimir Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u214	Mishchenko Hennady Autonomous, Voroshilovsky District Court of Donetsk The judge ruled a number of illegal resolutions regarding the management of the State Enterprise Sea Trade Port South. Thus, the judge ruled a number of judgements on the provision of lawsuits that were initially made in favour of Vasiliev with recognition of his right to head the state-owned enterprise “Sea Trade Port ‘South’, instead of the Ukrainian Transport Minister’s appointment to the position of Kurk, and then revoked these approvals and unlawfully decided another approval that was granted to Kurk with recognition of his right as head of the state-owned enterprise “Sea Trade Port ‘South’. In fact, the resolution of the decision to secure a lawsuit resulted in severe consequences and the blocking of the business activity of a state enterprise. By the way, the address was the representative of BUT. The Supreme Council of Justice made a decision and filed a complaint with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u215	Yes, please, is Hennadi Autonomous? You don't? Yes, does anyone have a desire from the deputies? Yes, there's a particular thought here from a Bondic committee member, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, I voted in favour of this judge's release on the High Council of Justice, but then he turned to me and because the circumstances he had proved and I made a separate point, in accordance with the principle of democratic centralism, I did not vote in favour of his release. Why? Because there are two legislative reasons why we should not now consider the question of liberating Mishchenk from the next. He appealed to the Supreme Court of Justice in an administrative, higher administrative court, and for the time being, he was sick, he was in a hospital, and he reasoned that he had applied for his resignation voluntarily because he had worked for 23 years as a judge and had earned and lost his health in judicial work. [[Well, it looks like the hospital needs confirmation.]] I mean, for humane reasons, I made a separate point to allow the judge to resign voluntarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u217	Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! We have indeed considered the issues related to Mishchenka and wanted to ask them. Unfortunately, however, he did not attend the section meeting seven times, he did not attend the High Council of Justice twice, he did not attend the committee meeting twice. And we're looking again in this room. I would therefore like to support the Committee's decision and to have a common approach, and to dismiss Mischenko Gennady Autonomous for violating the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u219	I am voting on the proposal to release the judge of the Vorosilovsky District Court of Donetsk Mishchenka Hennady Autonomovich, in accordance with article 126, part 5, paragraph 5, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. [[14:24:06]] For 245 Decision taken. And please refer to the judge of the District Court of Kiev, Nina Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u220	Nina Dmitrovna's grandmother. Participating in the implementation of the Ryder schemes, the groundless blinding of the case, the blocking of the commercial activities of TOV “Mineral-Invest”, TOV “Plato-Dvelpopmen”. Yes, three days before the new year of 2005, the complainant granted the application for a lawsuit, forbade any agreement on behalf of the Society, forbade the introduction and registration of changes to the documents, and forbade the state registration of the Pecher district administration in Kiev. It has introduced and registered changes to the installation documents, including the reorganization of the mineral investment TT. As a result of Babic Nina’s actions, the enterprise ceased to exist. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u221	Yes, would you please have Nina Dmitry? None. Do the deputies have any? Please, Vlasenko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u222	Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, it's 2005-2006! So that was five years ago. It's about one thing. And this judge has an exceptional situation, by the way, of all of the ones we're looking at. She wasn't at the committee meeting last time, because she's actually in the hospital, but she came in last Thursday for a meeting of the Supreme Council, you remember, they were standing here two women, two women. But then, unfortunately, she was hospitalized. I think a lot of the deputies got the same telegram I got: “In connection with the state of health, hospital treatment due to the loss of pregnancy and the challenge of the decision of the High Council of Justice in the Supreme Administrative Court, I ask you to postpone my case.” I have a copy of the defendant's application, which is filed with the Supreme Administrative Court for another 1 number. As of today, the Supreme Administrative Court has not yet filed a case, and it has been 15 days. Now, judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u223	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u224	I quoted a telegram in this case. My colleague Pisarenko told me the truth that, in fact, we have cases where judges abuse such things, but I don't think it's abuse in this case. I am not personally familiar with this judge, and I have, fortunately, not listened to any case. But based on the situation that really is, I would ask you to defer consideration of this question, to listen to it on the committee normally, and then move it into the hall. If there's any reason to deny her status, we vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u225	Any other thoughts? They called it Pisarenko, please. Sulkovsky was fortunately not called.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u226	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, you know, really, everyone has their grief, and unfortunately, we have people coming to the committee who have something going on in the family, and there is something going on that we pay attention to in the committee. But here in this case, you know, this is exactly the case where the previous two judges were released for exactly the sort of raiding mechanism that this judge was involved in. And if you look closely, it's this three-wayer we just got off the vote with you. Of course, we can wait years for someone to come and explain something to us, but unfortunately, the judicial system expects swift decisions about judges who do not understand that they are wearing a robe and why they took an oath. People expect effective decisions from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u227	Thank you. Yes, please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, we took a decision yesterday at the committee meeting and found that there was indeed a violation of the oath. This has to do with the raid. On that point, I recommend and ask for the support of the Committee's decision to fire her for violating its oath. I mean Judge Babic Nina Dmitrievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m0.u229	We'll vote. I am voting on the decision to release the judge of the District Court of Kiev Babic Nina Dmitrovna in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath. [[14:29:11]] For 241 We have considered all matters related to the appointment and release of judges. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll be back to work.
