ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:26]] 393 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovovich and Chronovil Taras Vejacheslavovich. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them life’s and political success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the International Children’s Day. Let us remember this date and do everything in our work so that our children, children in Ukraine, and all the children will feel protected. Dear National Deputies, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 18 to 21 May 2010. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 48 issues of the agenda were discussed, 8 laws and 7 regulations were adopted, 10 bills were adopted, 4 bills were sent for re-reading, 1 bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, 10 bills and 4 draft regulations were rejected, and one law was adopted after the drafting, 63 parliamentary requests were announced. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies as part of the Coalition of the Deputies of the “Stability and Reform” factions in the Sixth Council: The chain of Andrija Mihajlovich, Denkovich Ivan Vasilovich and Šepilev Aleksandra Alexandrovich. Honourable National Deputies, on May 31, 2010, the Central Electoral Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency that was included in the electoral list of the Party of Regions: Kirička Alexandre Eduardoovich, Isajeva Leonida Alexiyovich. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Kiriczka Alexandre Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u3	Yes, welcome, Alexander Eduardoovich, distinguished colleagues. To make an oath, I invite the national deputy of Ukraine, Isaiah Leonidas Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Leonid Alexiyovich and wish us success. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies Kiricka Alexandre Eduardoovich and Isajevo Leonida Alexiyovich into the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I personally report the entry of the National Deputies of Kiriczk Alexandre Eduardoovich and Issaev Leonida Alexiyyovich into the Coalition of the Deputies 'Stability and Reform' in the Sixth Council of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with applications, reports, queries. Please sign up for the factions. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to introduce you to the show. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! The Deputy faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares that the economic situation in the country is being stabilized by the government under the leadership of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Januković, begins to consolidate the progress achieved. In the coming Thursday, the Head of State of the National Court of Ukraine will deliver a programme speech that will summarize the first hundred working days of a team of professionals to lead the country and present a strategic programme of systemic reforms. At some end of the hundred days, it is necessary to stop separately. First of all, it cannot be forgotten that this year, at the highest level, the anniversary of the Great Victory was celebrated. The celebration helped not only to unite the country and to consolidate society, but also to strengthen the inviolable friendship of the three brotherly Slavic peoples: Ukrainian, Russian and Belarusian. We would like to stress in particular that there is no reasonable alternative to Euro-integration. But in order to minimize the financial and economic and temporary costs of this journey, we must make maximum use of the potential of our normal, good-neighbourly trade and economic, humanitarian, political relations with our main strategic partner and our eternal neighbour, the friendly Russia. Revitalizing the dialogue between the Presidents and the Prime Ministers of Ukraine and Russia would help to normalize relations between our States, their subsequent conversion into economic dividends for our country. The $40 billion investment that Ukraine will receive from the Kharkiv agreements will be used to modernize our economy and improve its competitiveness. Unlike the orange regime of the summer, which has been remembered by the people by constant riots, rallies and accusations between President Yushchenko and Prime Minister Timoshenko, who has set the country apart, in their view, because of the failure of the Constitution, which allegedly provokes internal conflicts, today, under the same Constitution, not to mention a single, monolithic, powerful, democratic power working for the State. It is therefore not about the imperfection of the Constitution, but about specific people. If the orange power was a personal party corporate interest, there could be no consolidation or consolidation. Widespread interests simply torn her from the inside, along with her and the country. The people now have the authority of a new team led by Viktor Yanukovic. This power puts the interests of the State and the people at the forefront of the work, and as a result, power works like clockwork: harmonious, rhythmic, dynamic and unbreakable. My country has the capacity to join the most developed countries in the world. Today, we can and should not lose that chance: entering the world's most advanced economies is the overcoming of the reform agenda presented by the Head of State. The coordinated, effective work of the Supreme Council is important in implementing reforms. Among the main tasks are the adoption of tax codes, budget codes. Parliament will have a number of bills that will improve the business climate in the country. After years of discussions, a set of business rules will be established, based on best world experience. We don't make empty promises. The Party of the Regions promises to facilitate the working conditions of entrepreneurs. And we'll do it. Equally important is the direction of our work: administrative reform. Here we have an unscented field that has grown frantically after the words and actions of the former bitter leaders, speculatives of humanitarian problems that have plagued the inhabitants of various regions of our country. In order to remedy the situation, there was a need to align the distortions in the development of the Territories and to ensure the flow of investment on the ground. During the first meeting of the Council of the Regions last week in Lviv, President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, gave specific instructions to the authorities to develop steps in this direction. The main message of the meeting could be worded as follows. We don't have our own or other regions. The elections have long been over. We are all citizens of a single State. Let us therefore work together for the benefit of the Family and every citizen. It is now important to hold local elections. I will stress that elections should be appointed and organized with unconditional compliance with the basic law. This is the firm position of the President and the Party of the Regions. Elections cannot be delayed for another year. This is contrary not only to the Constitution but also to the sentiments of voters who voted in favour of the change of central authority. When you say "a", you have to say "b". The election of the President of the country should be followed by a rotation on the ground. In order to organize the elections, the principle of their conduct should be reviewed in order to bring the MP closer to the electorate. This requires the political will of parliamentarians. The main focus is on law enforcement, not political desirability and political selfishness. In conclusion, the following is to be said. There are representatives of different nationalities, speaking different languages, of different national cultures, professing different religions. But this emphasizes once again that Ukraine is multifaceted, but it is alone, alone for all of us and that we live together in it. That's why we can pick it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u8	That is why we will only be able to raise it by uniting, only by consolidating efforts, only together, placing the highest interests of the State and people at the top of the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u9	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! The main topic today is elections to local authorities, discussions take place around two points: the date of such elections and the possible change in the electoral system. But people wonder if they will be able to make a serious difference in their city or village. Will the social situation improve, or will new roads, social facilities, and so forth arise? Are they simply pushing the MPs, and all problems remain unresolved? The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" believes that the main task of Parliament's local elections is to reform local self-government, to strengthen its independence. This will require changes to the Constitution and legislation, and then elections will be made. What are the changes? First of all, local communities need to have real influences, especially financial ones, which require decentralization, which is so much talked about, but which is not there yet. It is not safe to assume that 20 percent of the funds are distributed through the local budget and 80 percent through the center. It's different. It is necessary to modernize the electoral system so that local self - government is chosen by those whom people know and support, those who know local problems and how to solve them. But what is now being proposed is not just responding to the audible thesaurus. Finally, the necessary changes to the Constitution are needed for all levels and measures to have one term and to be chosen in one day. By the way, if the election is to take place in the near future, it is appropriate to put all the elections in place. Run everything with one big package. The results of the local elections will directly affect the lives of every citizen, the necessary political consensus of the entire parliament. We must not force ourselves to impose a model in the interests of central authority. We've been through this recently, remember April 27th during the ratification of the Kharkiv Treaties. Our faction believes that they are merely the result of a series of violations of the Rules by the Coalition and the Supreme Council. All procedures for preparing and considering matters were ignored, the treaty itself was prepared in an extremely closed regime, and this raised legitimate warnings from the opposition about possible threats to national security and the sovereignty of Ukraine. On April 27th, the authorities decided to sell their decisions at any cost, and the political purpose prevailed over the rule of law. The failure of the entire Ukrainian Parliament, including its leadership, has become apparent, to organize the work of the Supreme Council under the procedure laid down in the Rules. Accordingly, we have invited all the MPs together to compensate for the damage done to Parliament on April 27th, proportionally to the number of each faction. And then we have a folklore principle -- the essence of an unimportant relationship. It is important to draw conclusions from this and to continue to build the work of the Supreme Council exclusively within the framework of the Rules with a clear adherence to all procedures and with respect to the opinion of minorities. So our faction is initiating the signing by all factions of a memorandum that would make it impossible to repeat such opposition and turn Parliament's work into a rule of law. Dear colleagues, another subject. In recent times, in the political environment, ideas and proposals for radical change in legislation in the field of language and legislation have increasingly begun to be heard, which determines the main orientations of national policy on Ukrainian national security in foreign policy. In particular, the idea of modifying article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of the National Security of Ukraine and removing it is suggested that one of the main pillars of State policy is the acquisition of Ukraine's membership in the European Union and the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty while preserving good neighbourly relations and strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and other states of the world. In my view, such hasty changes in legislation in these areas can seriously damage the image of Ukraine as a consistent subject of international relations. And the honourable colleagues, these things that are being initiated, they're going to share not only the session hall, but they're going to share the entire Ukrainian society. So we, the deputies of our faction, put forward draft Decree 6452, which proposes to introduce moratoriums on amendments and additions to legislation in these areas, and to establish the practice of dealing with such issues only after they have been discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u12	At the same time, the term "moratorium" by March 15, 2015 is proposed in view of the fact that the next presidential election of Ukraine is due to be completed no later than that date. Please expedite the committee’s consideration of the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u13	National MP Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, will be followed by Sergey Grinevetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Your Honor's Head! The entire Ukrainian society, even the international community, was waiting for our end of May. Because it was on these days that a wide-ranging package of global reforms would be introduced that coincided with the 100 days of being in power of the new team. We know the situation well. It's not as simple and as smooth as it wanted to be. A considerable amount of money is not being collected by the Treasury. For the first time in March, industrial production fell by nearly 2 percent. Nearly 30 percent of foreign investment declined until last year. The amount of unreparable VAT has increased by 12 billion dollars. The situation does not even save huge amounts of money from the National Bank. At the same time, the global processes in which Ukraine has long been integrated are becoming increasingly disturbing. We are all witnesses as the most difficult final phase of the financial and economic crisis unfolds. After the collapse in the banking and financial sectors without credit, the economy slowed down. These processes are inevitably budgeted, and this is already the most sensitive area — social. Millions of people in many lands have come out with strong and far - reaching slogans. In Ukraine, for various reasons, the world’s negative trends are late in a few months. But because of this, they take even sharper forms and strike extremely painfully on the scales of the population in need of social protection. How can we support our citizens? What to do, and where to take the money? These are key issues for power in any country and for the reforms it is implementing. What do we have? In the early days, the new authorities made a very clear statement about a substantial, 20 percent reduction in the cost of bureaucrat maintenance, that is, nearly 40 billion dollars of net economy were planned. That would be enough to cover the pension deficit and to raise pensions, not for the modest percentages that you voted on, but for the borders that you promised. What really happened? As of today, budgets of all levels have been reviewed and approved. As a result, government spending did not go down but increased by 25 percent. And that's when the country hasn't fully recovered from the crisis. Wealth and a sieve of Europe understands this very well. That is why it clearly and immediately reduces the cost of keeping bureaucrats, not by percentage, but at the same time. Unfortunately, we're all the other way around. And another source. It is modestly estimated that up to $40 million of Ukrainian origin is left in offshore areas. For our poor country, it is a huge luxury. What is more, the world’s leading countries, responding to a financial crisis, have taken such things seriously. As a result, the offshores in the world remained only for the Ukrainian oligarchs. Returning all this money to Ukraine is not difficult. We just need to review some of the international agreements in this room. We tried to do it. Then you didn't support it because you were afraid. There's nothing to be afraid of today. They won't touch their own. Anyway, it's a colossal investment resource and tens of billions into the budget. And it's a very strange-looking law that you've literally chewed through in this room recently. It can be exported from Ukraine without taxes as much as the capital of dividends, profits, and so on. And then yesterday, every investor paid 15 percent to the budget, and then he was free to manage what he earned. How many billions are now spent in these extraordinary conditions - you can only guess. In truth, for some, Ukraine is still an area, and it is not a place to live. Individually on land issues. A few percent of the deal is land in villages, cities and suburbs, and it costs about $140 billion according to experts. Last year, you did not want to vote in favour of land auctions, so vote today and fill the fines with this money, not the pocket of handiwork. In other words, there is money in the country and a lot of money, not yet in the state. And I'm forced to act as a new team by the methods of yesterday, to strangle those who breathe. Instead of the promised maximum contribution to small and medium-sized enterprises, tax vacations are made the opposite, VAT is not returned, tax pressure has increased, and the number of checks and checking bodies has increased. Opposition deputies have developed a number of initiatives that are called upon to address the most acute and painful problems that entrepreneurs face today. That is why we insist on Wednesday: the first, the simplified taxation system, the second, the five-year taxes and vacations for entrepreneurs depending on the type of activity, the third, the increase in the liability of officials to prevent entrepreneurs, the fourth, the acceleration of the type of licensing and the reduction of control bodies that carry out checks, the fifth, the adoption of rules for local authorities and local self-government bodies, which require them to support small and medium-sized enterprises. The adoption of such a package of laws is primarily about creating European conditions and rules for the development of entrepreneurship. As a result of the guarantee that the crisis will end in Ukraine. We also suggest that we listen to the government’s management on Friday, as the authorities plan to promote business development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u16	And when the pressure stops. As you can see, there is no political coloring of what we offer. The only thing I want to add to the end is the faction has authorized me to officially declare the following. With the aim of separating from the defector deputies, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc decided to re-register the faction members by 1 June of this year by submitting a personal statement to the MPs confirming its membership in the faction under new political circumstances and agreeing to stand in opposition. On June 1st, 130 national deputies were elected by our list. The re-registration period, namely the submission of the above-mentioned application, expires today. An MP who has not filed the above statement will be considered to have failed to form part of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u17	Thank you. Sergei Greenewecki, please. Alexei will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In October of this year, the European Charter for Local Self - Rule is 25 years old. Ukraine has been known to ratify this document in July 1997, thereby reaffirming its desire to implement European principles of democracy and rights. Sadly, no serious steps have been taken since then. I would like to remind you that the Charter defines local self-government as, I quote, “the right and the ability of local self-government bodies within the framework of the law to regulate and manage a substantial part of the social affairs that belong to their competence in the interests of the local population”. As far as law is concerned, it's kind of local council. Much worse is the matter of abilities. This is not the last part of the so - called political relevance that is sacrificed to the interests of the territorial communities. It has become a bad tradition for each election to change the principles of the formation of local councils. For example, if 15 years ago the electorate chose a majority system, 10 years ago, based on the principle of equal representation of villages and villages, districts, cities of regional importance, 5 years ago, under closed party lists, today, they are talking about the need for a mixed system. What, then, did Ukraine receive as a result of numerous electoral reforms? Instead of the promised political structure, the reign of the local financial and economic clans covered with party displays. Instead of forming a political elite, it's deprofessionalization of the MP Corps. Instead of strengthening local self - government, it is a systematic self - destruction. It all looks like we're taking responsibility for our inability to be citizens again. Local self - government today needs a road map of its own to determine the gradualness of the steps taken to expand its authority. Each political power represented in Parliament highlights the need for reform of local authorities. Many of these programs come together. But when there is real reform, everyone looks for political controversy in the opponent’s proposals. First of all, we have to go back to the constitutional field that came out of the political reform of 2004. This is to return to the district and district councils their constitutional status as local self - government bodies, representing the common interests of the territorial communities, as defined in article 140 of the Basic Law. Finally, it is necessary to eliminate differences in article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine and to appoint a single term for local councils and city, village, and village heads. The amendment also requires article 85, paragraph 30, of the Basic Law, which allows us to neutralize the Constitutional Court’s decision on the term of office after the election. To wait for the Constitutional Court's decision on the law that we passed with you, indeed, April 1st. This is the legal basis for the adoption of the Electoral Code. And it would be desirable for the Code to be amended by 2/3 of the MPs, which would allow the electoral system to be preserved from entanglement for the benefit of any political force. But it is only a public for a broader reform, which is so much said and is not done there. First, in our view, it would be appropriate to go back to the practice of selecting district heads and district councils for the population of the territories. Secondly, the final result of the reform should be the restoration of the power of councils, for which the powers of district and district administrations should be delegated to the executive bodies of these councils. At the same time, the number of territorial representations of central authorities should be reduced. This will allow real decentralization of the administration. Thirdly, to decentralize the budget system by recording a certain portion of the public taxes that will come into the local budgets. Constitutional changes aimed at creating effective local self-government are indeed a requirement of time, but their approval requires a unified position of the entire MP and the state position of each of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u19	Please, the Communist faction, Alexei Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, within a short time, the Stability and Reform coalition has been able to resolve a whole range of issues that have not been resolved – this is the approval of the 2010 State Budget, the approval of the Economic and Social Development Programme, the conclusion of State-friendly agreements with the Russian Federation. The citizens of Ukraine and international society have seen that a strong alliance of political forces has been formed in Ukraine, able to resist the pressures of the global economic crisis. At the same time, it is a matter of developing a program of transformations in all spheres of social life. We insist that this program meets several important requirements. First of all, you can't transform a project programme of one political power and one decision-making centre, especially the President or the government. This approach has been tried for the past five years. None of the reforms announced at that time were implemented. This refers to constitutional, administrative and other reforms. This is all the more so with regard to such an important topic as economic reform. The reform plan should be a joint acquisition and development of all branches of government. Secondly, we insist that any reform should aim at raising the standard of living of citizens. Unfortunately, we hear very often in government circles about the liberalisation of the economic course of the state. Such reforms can have a very high social cost. In particular, the issue of rising municipal tariffs has not yet been removed from the agenda. In terms of curbing the growth of citizens' income, this will mean not only a decline in living standards, but also a collapse of the communal sphere in general due to a crisis of insolvency. Thirdly, we believe that any reform will only then become systemic if it is implemented within the framework of priorities that will achieve the parliamentary consensus. This means that it is mandatory to adopt the Law on the Principles of External and Internal Policy to advance reforms. Otherwise, it is a risk and an exacerbation of political and social contradictions. The next task facing the authorities today is to resolve the issue of granting Russian state status. We do not agree that this decision should be postponed until better times. The subject has matured and has even matured. The discussion around Russian has been going on for a long time. The time has come to cut this “gorgeous peer ” by holding an all-U.S. referendum. The full resolution of problems in the implementation of the Regional Language Charter is not possible. Moreover, it threatens a partition of the country by an ethnoculture mark. We have to admit that Russian is not the language of the national minority as they try to prove political opponents. It is a native language not only for the Russians but also for many Ukrainians and other national communities in our country who have the full right to use it freely throughout Ukraine. That is why the KPI faction insists on the need to initiate all necessary procedures: from the development of constitutional changes from this issue to the holding of a referendum, to the implementation of its results. One of the biggest tasks of public policy is to continue working on the correction of the foreign policy course, particularly in the direction of deepening and expanding the relationship between the strategic partnership with the Russian Federation. In recent times there have been positive developments in this matter: the country’s leadership has deviated from a devastating confrontation with Russia. For two months, dialogue was restored at the highest level, with acute problems of cooperation in various fields: the continuation of the Black Sea fleet in Sevastopol, and so forth. No doubt these are positive steps that will allow us to normalize relations between our countries. At the same time, there is concern about the indecisiveness and fluctuation of the leadership of the state in deepening cooperation with Russia. The position of the President and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Ukraine's participation in the economic integration process in the Eurasian space, particularly with regard to Ukraine's full involvement in the process of creating a customs union between Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus and the European Union's reintegration process. Some statements made by the state’s leadership today during meetings with Western governments or diplomatic representations have raised concerns. Again, as in the previous five years, mantras have been said about Ukraine's continued entry into the EU and the development of cooperation with NATO. On behalf of the IPU faction, I would like to remind coalition partners that the change in foreign policy priorities, the development of relations with Russia, was one of the fundamental requirements of the IPU when joining the "Stability and Reform" coalition. This was a fundamental issue in the agreement on support for the election of President Yanukovitch by a left- and left-centrist force block. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u21	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u22	I mean, the Supreme Council shouldn't stay away from what's been going on in Mariupoli for a week. I mean, what's going on around the Ilic plant today. I would like to recall that Ukraine has already lost the Crimson Castle, lost the Alcev Metcombinate, lost Zaporoztal. Today's the day. Questions may arise on the agenda with the sale of domestic ore, domestic coke. This is the problem of the social explosion of more than 50,000 collectives. And by no chance yesterday, the leader of the Peter Simonenko faction at the Conciliation Council made a proposal for the establishment of a special commission of inquiry to address the issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done with the factions. Let's move on to the daily routine. We have an extremely tense schedule today. Part of them will have to be included in the agenda, part of the bill on which the President’s veto is imposed. We now have a bill of 2263-1 with you on public procurement with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I've asked, my fellow Members, to respond with understanding to what situation we're going to be working with you right now. Unfortunately, the profile committee ignored its function and failed to carry out its mission and did not prepare a comparative table for the president’s comments. I remind you that this is to be done no later than 30 days. The President’s remarks to the State Procurement Act came to the Supreme Council on March 16, this year. Clearly, the honourable colleagues that this bill, this, the previous law that we have repealed with you, are extremely sensitive in society and very necessary for society. Therefore, taking into account the decision of the Conciliation Board, taking into account the repeated warning given by the profile committee that it is necessary to prepare it for consideration, we are with you today, meeting the requirement of the Rules, if the profiling committee does not submit it in time, we have every reason to consider this bill. I'd like to be very careful right now, you've been handed over, and the President will report to the representative of the President-designate, and the first deputy head of the President's Administration will tell you about it. You and I need to be very careful, very clear, so that today, at last, this one is bad enough and bad enough, the law you want is finally legal. [[We can find the epithets.]] So please, Carmazin please, one minute and we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I've shown you all about the Rules in vain right now. The Supreme Council Rules Act foresees what you said, Adam Ivanovich, that the committee was obliged, but the law does not provide for how to act when such ignorances are to take place, and who is to prepare these comparative tables then. So the law doesn't even foresee how you can trample on it? So, Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to ask you right now, if there are any such precedents, to report at the same time to the head of the regulatory committee, to the head of the regulatory committee for consideration, for what reason, who? It's a coalition committee, you know who's responsible for the coalition, whether we do it, or change the leadership, or set up a committee, since there's a lot of these committees. The third month is the President's veto, and this is an unprecedented case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, for further strengthening my words, I thank you for this intensification. I would ask, in fact, no more profile committee to bring the session hall into this situation. Bill 2663-1 is under consideration. For a re-examination of the President of Ukraine's proposals on State procurement. As I mentioned earlier, the President's proposals of March 16, 2010. The President authorized him to report his proposals to the first deputy head of the administration of President Irina Akimimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u26	Honorary colleagues, national deputies, revered Adam Ivanovich, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 11, 2010, passed the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. The President of Ukraine introduced the veto on March 16th and was sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for reconsideration. However, contrary to the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, the proposals made by the Head of State in the established terms were not considered. Such a delay is unacceptable in the head of State’s view, for it directly causes an increase in the number of abuses in public procurement. What were the main reasons for the use of the veto by the President of Ukraine? One of the key aspects was the formation and functioning of the prosecution body, as defined in the law, the mechanism for the formation and functioning of the body and its mandate, contradicts the constitutional model of Ukraine. In particular, it is not an organ of State authority, but it was given to it in a legal form of authorization. He was able to make decisions that were binding on all persons, and he was essentially entrusted with the authority of justice that was not in conformity with the Constitution. The head of state in his veto left the issue of the creation of the functioning of the prosecution body open. However, the President of Ukraine stressed that this rule of law should be written in such a way that the formation of the body of accusation, its status, its mandate would correspond to the constitutional model of the organization of the exercise of State authority. In doing so, this authority should not allow it to be transformed into a tool of artificial procrastination. At the same time, the powers of the prosecution authority should ensure that the client’s interest in remedying the infringements found by that body. These are international priorities shared by the President of Ukraine. The government asked the Head of the Supreme Council for suggestions on the position of the prosecution body, which is based entirely on international standards. And according to the Heads of State, such proposals deserve attention. The second key aspect of the inadequacy of the laws of the Constitution was the fact that the provisions of the law did not provide for the introduction of the possibility of banks blocking payments of customers under procedures outside court decisions. Several comments were made regarding unwarranted exceptions to purchase items and procedures. Thus, the head of State suggested that the list of cases not covered by the law should be reduced. The Head of State pointed out that the approved law lacks a clear definition of the moment and the mechanism, a confirmation of the acceptance of the tender proposal. As a result of the shortcomings noted, the mechanism for determining the winner of the trade was completely opaque and unclear. Since the customer was given the opportunity to identify another successful bidder who violated the contract deadlines. The Head of State was also invited to extend the concept of “general customer” according to the powers of the Constitution and the relevant authorities of local self-government. To expand the concept of “related person”, from the term “public funds”, to exclude “public credit resources”, “humanitarian aid in money form”, “costs of state and local non-budgetary funds. To extend the concept to funds provided under the guarantees of the Cabinet of Ministers, to loans from foreign states and banks, etc., as well as to adjust other standards that cause conflict in the law. The adoption of amendments to the President's 18 closed proposals is very important, but equally important, adoption of amendments and proposals concerning two open proposals by the President. I remind you, Your Honor, that these two open proposals are about the prosecution body and the prosecution procedure. According to the Head of State, proposed in a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Head of the Supreme Council, the mechanism for the establishment of the prosecution body and the procedure of the prosecution body is in line with international standards and the Head of State asks you to consider this issue. In view of the above, I would like to remind you that there are many groups and many personnel who do not want the Public Procurement Act to be adopted. And that's very understandable, because this law reveals the future of our state of life without corruption. And it is clear that not all people want to live without corruption. In view of the above, my honourable colleagues, I propose that you consider today the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Accept these suggestions. Accepting the proposals that have come from the government, because these proposals are the only possible way to improve the process of purchasing and shaping the future in this particular area, with a significant decline in the level of corruption. Please support these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u27	Thank you, Irina Mikhailina. Please let me ask you a question. Please sign up. Yes, please, 10 minutes. Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u28	Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u29	Zibank's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u30	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear Irina Mikhailovna, unfortunately, unfortunately, the law that you are now introducing excludes the provision for the purchase of technical rehabilitation equipment manufactured under individual orders from a disabled person without applying tender procedures. Although this rule was contained in all previous regulations and 921 of the Cabinet of Ministers. The point is that the manufacture of prosthetics, orthopedic shoes, mobility tools for people with resistance-moving disabilities is an individual production and, in accordance with article 23 of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, Ukraine is being implemented under an individual program of rehabilitation of a disabled person according to the position approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So only an individual approach when making a product allows for the maximum possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u31	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u32	Irina Mihailovna, the profile committee has two proposals for exclusion from the tender procedures for the listed work list. Thank you. They have to be counted in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, I absolutely share your concern about the welfare of persons with disabilities with the necessary prosthetics. And I think your point is very important. But I would just like to remind all the deputies sitting in the Chamber that proposals have now been considered and voted together with the President's veto. I have no doubt that there will be many other shortcomings in this law. But today we must take an important step, a breakthrough ahead, we must first adopt the Public Procurement Act, and then, I am sure, we will have the opportunity to accept the additions to it to clean up all the necessary moments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u34	Please, Kojara. She's smart enough to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u35	Please give the floor to Deputy Konovaluk Valery Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear reporter, Irina Mikhailovna, I am convinced that everyone understands this, and it would be too much to say that the state is losing a huge amount of money to the opaque, corrupt system of government purchases. You have touched on the president's position regarding the acceptance of the tender. And what do you think, if 80 percent is happening, there's going to be brokers involved in tender purchases, how will the question of impact really be adjusted to allow not only to participate in the tender, but also to lower the price at the expense of more producers and large, powerful businesses and companies? That's the first question. And about the questions of solicitation through credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I'm sure you've been very familiar with the President's comments. These comments also provide an opportunity to make the procedure of acceptance more transparent and comprehensible, which will not arbitrarily allow a person or a company that would want to violate the procurement procedure and profit from it to intervene in it. That is why, in my opening statement, I have asked for and support the President's proposals, which have been in Parliament since 16 March.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u38	Please, Schmel's Svetlana. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u39	I'm filming my question. My colleague Zibenko asked me a question that I was curious about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u40	Please, Alla Alexandrovska. Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u41	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Irina Mikhailovna, I understand that this law must be passed. And in the manner in which he proposed, he addressed many of the issues of transparency. That is, the State assumes full responsibility for all that will take place in this area. And of course, I, for example, welcome that. However, there are some rules that I think we need to pay attention to. For example, libraries that are utilities or public enterprises purchase books. Well, do you and I understand what kind of tender might be on the books? Because a book is a unique phenomenon. However, there are again demand for a tender. I mean, I would like you to be very brief now for those who listen to our broadcast to say what the basic principles of this law will ensure transparency. And the second. How do you feel about the procurement of library books?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. I believe that the most important mechanism that ensures transparency in public procurement after the adoption of the law is a clear distinction between the authority governing public procurement, what is called in the law of the “authorizing body”, and it is with the Ministry of the Economy, and the functions that relate to the charge of all possible violations in the public procurement process. This body, the body of complaint, by law, which is fully in conformity with the requirements and international standards, is transferred to the Antimonopoly Committee because it is the function of the Antimonopoly Committee to ensure equal, competitive conditions of struggle, including during the tendering process itself. The functions that have been assigned especially under the prosecution procedure are very important because we know that this is the area where there have been sufficient deviations from the law. This is the first and most important. The second mechanism for enhancing transparency is a significant reduction in the list, the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u43	Please, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u44	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Irina Mikhailovna, the bill is known to regulate the area of purchase for several hundred billion dollars. And at the same time today, we're looking at this issue without a comparative table, without a committee decision, essentially blind. It is well known that at the current position of the Cabinet of Ministers, the same “Tamiflu” was purchased at a price of five times its actual price. So with what percentage after we blindly adopt this bill today, this veto is going to be over, the purchases are going to be done. That's the first question. And the second question. In previous periods a very large amount of money, up to 70 billion dollars, was allocated to purchases from one seller. What's on offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. Answer the first question. The coefficient, you know, the coefficient you called it is the coefficient of corruption. And I hope that it will be possible for us to adopt this law gradually, but persistently, to reduce this rate of corruption to zero. And the second is one supplier's procurement procedure. The law itself has done enough to reduce, first of all, the list of goods and services that can be purchased from one supplier and to write the law, not the Kabmin order itself, how the purchase of one supplier can be carried out. This is the second moment of transparency that I would like to say, and which is particularly important for Ukraine, where the purchases of one supplier, as you rightly said, have reached nearly 50 per cent of the past Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u46	Please, Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u47	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. I would like to ask you to explain the problem of purchasing goods and services taking into account the use of domestic manufacturers. The point is that today the vast volume of purchases that are being made is very weakly directed by those who buy for use primarily from domestic productions that are either in the middle or completely stopped. In all of this, we then buy really cheap, but not our production, forgetting that production in Ukraine will have a few effects, not only the price of purchasing, but also the very serious economic impact of manufacturing, the loading of labor and so on. Whether this bill stimulates this very moment in purchase. A domestic manufacturer should be given the priority right to provide the goods or services required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. First comment. Dear colleagues, let us not forget that today we are considering the Public Procurement Act. We are not considering a law giving priority to individual industries or enterprises. The Public Procurement Act, its main objective, is to ensure through public procurement that there is no discrimination against any enterprise to participate in the procedure. Why is it important not to discriminate? Because then our consumer: hospital, school, kindergarten -- any budget facility -- will be able to obtain at a minimum price the maximum quality of the product. That is what the law is about. With regard to the national manufacturer, all discriminatory measures that would not allow him to participate had been removed or had prevented him from contesting decisions if the decisions were illegal. We know that a national producer can produce good products at a low price, and this is the quality, this criterion for other equal products and will be used in the procurement process. This will enable him to fully realize himself on the inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u49	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to move on to the President's proposals and to vote on those proposals that, taking into account the President's proposals, and in the President's proposals, that is, and the rapporteur said that the President was in some directions, especially by who would represent who would be, as it were, which body, which accusation and so on and so forth, he proposed to the Supreme Council with this. This proposal was taken into account by the Cabinet of Ministers and made suggestions on who should be this body, which its mandate and functions are. You received this letter from the Prime Minister today. Also, each of these offers will be passed with you. So now, once again, we're going to vote on the President's proposals that were sent to us in March, and you should. After we vote on the President's proposals -- we will support or reject -- we will move on to the Cabinet of Ministers' proposals. Don't yell. We don't have a choice. One minute from the factions. There's no other way. One minute from the factions. Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u50	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Adam Ivanovich, you know the rules, I'm addressing you. Please tell me there's a President's veto with specific proposals. If the President doesn't have any suggestions, he doesn't make them. And the President can't give any orders to the Supreme Council. The Minister's office to the President's veto has nothing to do with it. Therefore, please be guided by the Law of the Rules. And let us vote, please, in accordance with the Rules. Otherwise it's a violation of both the Constitution and the law that makes this bill unconstitutional and illegal. Adam Ivanovich, you know the Rules. Please act in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u51	Bondarenko Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u52	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I was surprised by Mrs. Akimov’s position as an economist. And today, from the height of her position, she has to look at it not only in terms of the price of the goods being bought, but also in terms of the social, economic and other effect of its production in Ukraine. So if you go so hard, this brick costs 1 bracelet, and the Chinese offer it for 95 copies, you have to take it to the Chinese. Sorry, we'd better release this product even a little bit more expensive, and the social effect of that is going to be huge. This is not included in the law. The other one. This law could long have been considered in the committee. The committee is well known for its leadership. Why he won't consider why we didn't get the proper paperwork. We will not be able to uphold this law, even though there are many other circumstances. It preserves all corruption schemes, even though it is about fighting corruption. That is why we will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u53	Please, Valery Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I realize there's a certain position of individual factions today, but I'm convinced that if we get the law, it's much better than today's situation when we well understand that one in three bracelets today goes into the pocket of an official, or some entrepreneurs who are parasitic about government money today. We were able to talk today about many examples of the thefts that today are in separate ministries, departments, but I am convinced that today both the President of Ukraine and our faction requires not only approval of this law, but also the introduction of a certain system in the country in order to use budget money effectively. And I think government purchases and I think are designed to stimulate domestic production today, to create conditions to lower prices and to ensure the efficient use of budget money. So we call for a vote in favour of this law and to influence those problems that have existed in the state for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u55	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u56	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! We all realize that there is a problem of corruption in Ukraine, including fiscal corruption in public procurement. By enacting the law we have, even though we have to start the process of fighting this evil that is being created in the state. We understand the position of our colleagues from other factions who, if required to follow procedures at other times, are simply trying to avoid this document. Absolutely convinced that the decision must be made, a document must be made. As a witness, today's question to the representative of the President's administration. In the faction of Communists, in the profile committee on pensioners, veterans and invalids that I represent, there are proposals for improving this document. But in order to improve it, it needs to be accepted as a minimum, and then it needs to be amended. So the faction suggests that we start the process of adopting the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We'll follow the Rules. I explain 135 articles of the Rules before we work as I suggest, we adopt the law in a new edition, and the President has new rights and new grounds for a possible veto if he disagrees with an editorial. Because if we were to go with you just after the president's amendments and count them, he wouldn't have the right to veto anymore. Now, if we go as I suggest, the new edition, he'll have the right to veto, that's the first. Second, honourable colleagues, who are in charge of carrying out the procedure for considering this bill in such a sequence. First, vote on the President's proposals and then consider the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers, please vote. Yes, but work on the committee, why aren't you working? You're a committee member, as far as I know. [[11:05:47]] For 238. Decision taken. To the point that a committee should be concluded, I say yes. But if the 30 - day train does not make any comments, the Supreme Council has the right to consider the proposals. The first amendment shall be put to the vote. The President's proposal, set out on pages 12-13 of the President's remarks, with the exception of paragraph 7 on page 13. To complete paragraph 29 after the word “consignor” with the words “or a participant in the procurement procedure”. Please vote. [[11:06:41]] For 243 Supported. It's the President's second amendment on pages 13-14. Please vote. [[11:07:09]] For 243 Corrections accepted. I bet on the vote of Amendment 3, which is presented on page 14 of the President's remarks. Please vote. [[11:07:31]] For 245 The amendment is supported by the President. Puts to the vote the President's 4th amendment on page 14. Please vote. [[11:07:55]] For 243 The President's proposal is supported. Puts to the vote the President's 5th amendment, page 14. Please vote. [[11:08:20]] For 244 Supported. It's the President's 6th amendment on page 15, except for paragraphs 20 through 26, which we will then vote in the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:08:53]] For 246 Thank you, 246. And the same thing, in the President's 6th Amendment, where it's about an authorized body that has the right to delete, that's from page 15 to page 16 to the 7th, and then we'll take into account the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support this proposal. [[11:09:29]] For 245 Offer supported. The 7th Presidential Amendment, as set out on pages 16, 17, 18. Please vote. [[11:09:55]] For 246 Supported. I'm betting on the vote on the President's 8th amendment. Please vote. [[11:10:15]] For 245 Correction supported. It's the President's 9th amendment. Please vote. [[11:10:33]] For 246 Supported. We vote on the President's 10th amendment. [[This is page 18.]] Please vote. [[11:10:52]] For 245 Supported. Let's see. We're looking at, honourable colleagues, the President's 11th amendment with the proposal that we then vote in the Cabinet of Ministers. So who wants the 11th amendment to be taken into account in the Cabinet of Ministers, please vote. And people's deputies can. [[11:11:35]] For 246 Thank you. The President's 12th amendment is put to the vote. Please vote. It's not an abyss, it's a new editorial, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[11:12:08]] For 245 The President's 13th amendment is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:12:27]] For 244 Supported. The President's 14th amendment is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:12:48]] For 245 Supported. We're voting on 15 amendments to the President's proposals. Please vote. [[11:13:07]] For 244 Offer supported. The President's 16th amendment. Please vote. [[11:13:27]] For 245 Offer supported. The President's 17th amendment is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:13:48]] For 245 Supported. Vote 17 of the President's amendment. Please vote. [[11:14:07]] For 245 Supported. The President's 18th amendment. Please vote. [[11:14:27]] For 246 Supported position. The President's 19th amendment is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:14:47]] For 246 Thank you. And it's the president's 20th amendment. Vote. [[11:15:06]] For 245 Thank you. Thus, you and I have identified ourselves with the comments of the head of state. Now, please take the cabinet document you received today. I repeat, we are voting on a new law, read 135 articles. I'm voting on the first proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. We've already voted on all the President's amendments. [[11:15:47.]] For 246 Voted. I'm voting on a second proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. Take down the vote. Microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are well aware that we are now doing the wrong thing. Why? Because we're looking at the president's remarks. What prevents you from taking a break for a few minutes for half an hour to clean the process? Respectable regions, communists, Lithuanians, you can't do what you do. Now, make those proposals that the government has just handed out on a letter, knee-deep in the name of the President, unless it's hard for you. Put some facsimile on then, it'll be legal purity. I'm showing you how not to do it, but it would be something on behalf of the President at least. Now you're proposing to file an indictment against the Antimonopoly Committee. This means that the Antimonopoly Committee will no longer be an impartial body, it will no longer be an independent body, it will be an organ dependent on the same wallets, on the same bidding chambers, on everything else. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u59	Yuri Anatoliyovich, only one proposal is asked to authorize and make you an organ, perhaps order. Because whatever organ you call it, you can apply that to any organ. What do you say? You don't have to. I'm voting on a second proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:17:45]] For 244 Offer supported. I'm betting on the vote on the third proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:18:07]] For 245 Supported. I'm betting on the vote on the fourth proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:18:27]] For 243 Offer supported. We vote on the fifth proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. Vote. [[11:18:46]] For 243 Supported. I'll bet you a vote on the sixth sentence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Vote. [[11:19:05]] For 244 The seventh proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers is being voted on. [[11:19:22]] For 246 Vote the eighth sentence. Vote. [[11:19:40]] For 245 The 9th position of the Cabinet of Ministers is being voted on. [[11:19:57]] For 246 And it's the 10th floor of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[11:20:14]] For 245 So, Your Honor, we have voted with all of you on the President's proposals and the Cabinet of Ministers' proposals. Once again, I would like to point out that in this way you and I will now be determined by a new regulation that gives the President the right to see what is necessary in this, to impose, to apply the veto. Because in addition to the President's proposals we've taken into account, we've also taken into account the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is already a new editor. So I'm taking it into account that the honourable colleagues that we've actually connected, and here, to some extent, those who have criticized the chairman are right that he was working instead of a profile committee, that it should be a profile committee. I put to the vote with a protocol mandate from the General Legal Office to carry out the necessary technical and legal revisions, if any, and on the adoption, as a whole, of the new edition of Act No 2263-1 on State procurement. Please vote. [[11:21:47]] For 248 The law was passed in a new order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u60	The factions, please. Region Party – 171, “Clock Timoshenko” – 20, “Our Ukraine” – 7, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional – 4. Please sign up who wants to vote. On the grounds, more faithfully, because the procedure has already taken place. One minute from the factions. Yes, please sign up, I can't see. I can see the hands. Oh, there it is. Please, Zybenko. Sorry, the hand and the button are other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u61	The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, as a human being and as a faction, as the people who voted in favour of this document, in the content of this document may not be able to do everything, but a law has been adopted to which we should make appropriate changes later if it is signed by the President of Ukraine in order to really start a state-level total fight against corruption and including the use of budgetary resources. You can take a different view of the adoption of this document, but the faction of the Company of Ukraine considers it a positive step, as the beginning of the fight, a real fight against corruption, and also a part of the use of the budget for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u62	Please, Chechetov. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You know, you can certainly try to block the adoption of a law or a decree, but life can't be stopped. And life demanded, objectively, the adoption of the bill. I want to reassure our colleagues who are sitting on the opposite side of the hall. This isn't Victor Andreevich and Julia Vladimirovna, when every day from morning to night they found out who's more beautiful, who's smarter. Both Nikolai Janović Azarov and Viktor Fedorovic – they are a single tandem, the position is as synchronized as possible, taking into account the interests of the State and the people first. And in this situation, the absolute majority of the halls have consistently supported a single state power: we have adopted the law that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u64	Please, Yuri Carmazin. He's got gumenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give the floor to the Minister of Economics of the Opposing Government, Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u66	Please, Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u67	Adam Ivanovich, I was the first of the few to advocate for a transparent purchasing law, and I always fought for it. I wanted him to really be accepted like this. But when he is accepted to break the procedure, this law will never benefit him. Because a corrupt law that has been passed will also result in corruption. There have been two ways to resolve this issue, completely legalized. First. Who prevented the President from revoking his veto, taking into account Kabmin's amendments, and submitting a new one? And we would have gone through it. The second is what Karmazin said. We had to go through the President's veto procedure, vote on the amendment or the veto, then, if neither of them had gone through, give the committee a mandate to prepare a new edition, and in the break, meet up and take into account the Kabmin amendments. Why didn't you do it? These are the basic things you have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u68	Please, Humenjuk. Yes. Who do we have? Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u70	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to two circumstances. The first situation. With the same screams that we need a law that regulates the purchaser, we passed that law more than two months ago. Do you remember? The same arguments were true. They didn't listen to us. We then said that there was a corruption scheme in the prosecution. The President, your President, Victor Janukovic confirmed this opinion of the opposition: indeed, there was a corruption scheme. There are still a number of issues that we have highlighted and that we have then appeared in the President’s veto. Now, how did history go? For more than two months, the President's proposals lie and no one looks at them. Suddenly, as Philip comes out of the canopy, he pops up and says: Without a committee, without a tablet, we quickly accept. Then came the government’s proposals, which we saw just 10 minutes ago. Ten minutes straight, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u71	There is no next one, but finish because time is up. Time's up, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u72	I'm done. I'm noting that there are actually two things that are being done today. There's a mine under this law. Even if he is good, he can be accused by interested persons, and they will be able to charge him with a procedural mine. And the second. In those proposals that the government set for us 10 minutes ago, the key things are in place. For example, the prosecution procedure. And if there's corruption there, my dears, you'll be responsible for it by 100 percent. And then don't argue with us about corruption, because you are the source of this corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u73	Yes, respectable colleagues exchanged their thoughts. I'm gonna say it again. That Alexander Mikolaiovich had left. Oh, no, he is. The president couldn't call it off. Because if he did, there would be lawyers who took advantage of the fact that he had violated 15 days without a veto, the law had entered into force. If he'd called it off. Therefore, fellow believers, I thank you for your wise counsel. I would like to reiterate my criticism at the address of the profile committee. Let's move on. And then it'll be a little easier. We're supposed to be looking at Bill 4166 with you right now. amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Import into Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport imported by Citizens into Customs Territory of Ukraine" with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 31 March. But in view of the fact that the honourable colleagues who passed Bill 6337, we took the proposal fully into account in the draft Law, I would ask, and since the Bill 6337 is not yet signed, it has not yet become law, it will soon become law. Let's move on to this issue, because I am convinced that it will become the law and that there will be no need to adopt another law on the same subject. So I'm putting a motion for a vote, to postpone the bill at number 4166, please vote, and I've explained the reason. [[11:29:54]] For 237 Thank you. I'm once again, my dear colleagues, saying that we've already settled this in another law so that we don't have to produce two laws, so we've been winding it up. If he doesn't become the law, then we'll go back to the President's proposals. Bill No. 4332 on Amendments to Article 23 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, with proposals by the President, has been under consideration since December 1, 2009. [[on compensation for moral damage]] A representative of President Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich reports, and he will also report from the committee. So please, I think in ten minutes you can handle two reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u74	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of the Regions, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine I won't take up much of your time because this bill isn't complicated and the President, by making his remarks, first of all came out of the constitutional rule that says that all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their social status, their property status, their status, their income, any other differences, can't be discriminated against by Ukrainian legislation, or by the practice of applying the law. Since the veto bill provided for such discrimination, including status discrimination, the President of Ukraine proposed rejecting the law. I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to consider this matter in substance and to support the position of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u75	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Are there any questions? I won't. Yes. Excuse me, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please sign in. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Your Honor Yuri Romanovich, as representative of the President of Ukraine in Parliament, you may see that the previous law has been passed with a brutal violation of both the Rules and the Constitution. That's why I want you to think about the future. Right now we've voted in the Kabmin bill, open the Constitution, the government is just one of the subjects of the legislative initiative, just like each of the sitting deputies here. And each of the sitting deputies here, the honourable Adam Ivanovich, could make as much a proposal as you do, and we should vote it if so, if equality under the Constitution. And we have this strange equality going on. So under this bill, 4332, it could be accepted. I don't understand why the President wrote. It's just that when it comes to the President's insults, it should be taken into account that it's a larger circle of people who know and so forth, states. That was why the law could be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, in my answer, first of all, thank you Yuri Anatoliovich, he is always such an active MP, not indifferent, but I want to pay attention. It is a matter of compensation for moral harm, and look at the circumstances under this law. The amount of monetary compensation for moral damage depends on the status of the person. So you and I, as national MPs, need to be more compensated, and the ordinary citizen, let's give less or nothing. And there are other circumstances. What other circumstances? As the courts apply this rule, we cannot predict it with you. So the President, based on the interests of not officials, the higher the ranks, not of any entrepreneurs, but of all citizens, primarily ordinary citizens of Ukraine, says that such a law does not have the right to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u78	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, a small amendment: Deputies, not sitting, but working. I'm voting on the President's proposal, supported by a committee of profile to reject the bill. Please vote. Vote. [[11:35:17]] For 239. The President's proposal is supported. The law is rejected. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws is being considered with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 08.12.2009, Bill No. 4817. Reported by President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u79	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of Regions, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill was also the subject of very careful consideration by the President. It deals primarily with amendments to the Constitutional Court Act and regulates a number of issues related to the exercise of constitutional justice, the activity of judges, the appointment, the release of judges of the Constitutional Court. And since there's a lot of comments here, they're set out in a table for which I think you're going to vote, dear colleagues. I'll tell you what the President was coming out of when I suggested that this law be rejected. First of all, with respect to the rules of the Constitution, and some of the proposed articles of the law conflict with, according to the President, the rules of the Constitution and the second circumstance that forced the President to return the bill is that the proposed rules in some parts conflict with either the applicable provisions of the Constitutional Court Act and they are not subject to changes or other legislative acts that regulate the activities of the Constitutional Court and are related to procedural matters. So, Your Honor, I am asking Adam Ivanovich to propose the revisions of each amendment, and I ask you to support the President's position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u80	Thank you. Is there a question in Carmazine, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u81	I am ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u82	Give Karmazin a word for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! We lost the past law, although the scientific expert concluded that if the words “personal status” were deleted, the law is good, it does not conflict with the Constitution. This law was also promised by President Yushchenko. And even a formal commission from the current President, Yanukovich, you don't. Because I don't think Yuri Romanovich would have assigned Yushchenko to introduce you to this law. But given that the changes we have adopted in the Constitutional Court Act are settled, including those that make it impossible for Judge Demchenko, the head of the household court, to be violated today, two and a half years of his position unconstitutionally. I would like to vote in an articleistic manner to support this law, not to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u84	Yuri Anatolyovich, I want to thank you once again for your active position and you can see that you are agonizing over the issues governed by this law. And while the work of the Supreme Court of Economic Affairs is not subject to regulation of this bill, I think that the issues you are asking are relevant, important, but I think they will be resolved under another legal act. As for your proposal to consider each President's proposal, to vote for it separately, that's exactly what the procedure is, I think, is going to happen now. Thank you for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oh, there's still Pisarenko's question. Please, Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u86	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Romanovich, I wanted to ask you. Of course, all the bills that are now going in the context of changes in laws that are somehow relevant to the judiciary should be governed by a general view of judicial reform. And yesterday the task force finished its work. I hope that this week Parliament will start final work on the Judicial Act, other laws relating to the judiciary. I think it would be interesting for us to know that this law, it must come from the views that are now within the framework of the concept of judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Valeria. And I wanted to thank in your person all the people's deputies, all the experts, all the representatives of the judiciary who worked in the working group. And in the near future, the new Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges will come at the signature of the President to Parliament. Hopefully, we'll consider it urgent. And in the end, the rights of citizens who apply to the courts will be protected. The judge will be relieved of pressure. And our judicial system is going to be given the function of the Constitution to do 100 percent. As far as your question is concerned, I absolutely want to confirm the thesis that you said. All the legislative acts, all the draft laws that are currently under consideration in the Supreme Council, must be consistent with the logic behind judicial reform. And it is this very meticulous law that will determine our innovations, our improvements, including the Constitutional Court Act, including our codes that regulate both procedural and material norms. So actually, I think it's support for position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u88	Thank you. Please have a seat. From the profile committee of Elina Victorovn Shishkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The law you are proposing has a long history. I want to remind you that we accepted it a year ago, in March of last year. But in violation of the constitutional procedure for the adoption of this law, President Yushchenk submitted a constitutional application to the Constitutional Court. And according to the Constitutional Court's decision, the law was declared unconstitutional, but not essentially what it was about the procedure for its adoption. After the drafters of the bill he was reintroduced to Parliament and was re-adopted, I remind you, voted in favour of him for more than 300 votes, we accepted him as a law. But again, in November 2009, President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko again vetoed the law and made a number of comments. In principle, the President himself supported the need for a legislative settlement of the issues proposed in the adopted law, such as the implementation of the provisions of article 85, part 1, paragraph 28, and article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the provision by the Constitutional Court of conclusions in relation to violations by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Ukraine of the Crimea of Ukraine or the laws of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that in the current law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine this issue is not settled. Although the Constitution states that the Constitutional Court has such authority. Next. The President also supported the legislative settlement of the implementation of the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in general. [[on the conformity of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The introduction of provisions of the Constitutional Court Act in accordance with article 126, part 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the release of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine from office]] To regulate issues aimed at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine's exercise of its powers on the principles of publicity and openness. In general, the committee received 18 proposals from the President of Ukraine for this law. And on a preliminary consideration of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Committee would like to draw your attention to the fact that a large number of conceptual comments by the President of Ukraine have already been the subject of a hearing by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as I recalled. But basically all these 18 proposals by the President are not supported by the committee. Most of them are essentially declarative or editorial and there is no effect on the substance of the law. Some, indeed, of the President's proposals are taken into account, but the committee does not support them. In particular, the amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, made pursuant to article 106, paragraph 15, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are required to ensure that the rules of part three of article 152 of the Constitution of Ukraine are applied. [[on the procedure for considering constitutional submissions by the President of Ukraine]] The Committee notes that in accordance with article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the exclusive powers of the Constitutional Court include decisions on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the laws and other legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the legal acts of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Systemically, according to the provisions of article 152, parts two and three, the Constitutions of Ukraine mean that only the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has the right to decide on violations of the Constitution of Ukraine as a result of the issuance of those or other legal acts corresponding to part three of article 152 of Ukraine. The Committee concludes that the need to establish a procedure for dealing with the unconstitutionality of right-wing acts in the event of their formal annulment is important not only in terms of the possibility of termination of the legal relations arising from the adoption of these acts but also in terms of the relationship that may have existed between the subjects of the law in the course of the contested acts. In this key element of the rule laid down in the law is the rule of part three of article 44 of the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, whereby the conduct of the case cannot be suspended as a result of the annulment of an act which is the subject of a review by the body which issued it, in the event that one of the subjects of the constitutional application insists on the matter. The Committee considers that this rule does not go beyond the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court of 14 November 2001, since it refers to the implementation of constitutional provisions relating to those legal acts which were valid at the time of completion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I would like to point out that, in principle, most of the comments made by the President of Ukraine applied to those provisions that were aimed at preventing the abuse by the President of his right to constitutional submission. If we mention the practice during 2009, the President of Ukraine has repeatedly stopped the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, at the same time sending a constitutional application to the Constitutional Court, thereby abusing his right to constitutional submission. And this is the subject of regulation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u90	Thank you. Elina Victorian, what is the final decision of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u91	The final decision of the committee to topple the President's veto and not support any of the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. And so, dear fellows, we take the bill number 4418. We're voting on the President's proposals. The President's first proposal is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:47:27]] For -6 Not supported. The president's second proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:47:47]] For-0 The third offer. [[11:48:05]] For-0 The President's fourth proposal. [[11:48:21]] For two. You can also show by factions. "Our Ukraine" did the right thing, because this is their President's proposal. Well, I'm sorry, the President of Ukraine of their political power. The President’s fifth proposal. [[11:48:56]] For two. The same two. Sixth offer. [[11:49:13]] For two. Not supported. Seventh offer. [[11:49:31]] For the five of us. Five. Not supported. The eighth offer. [[11:49:48]] For-7. Seven. The numbers are increasing. Not supported. The ninth. [[11:50:06]] For-12. 12, not supported. The 10th offer. Any notes? Take down the vote, please. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to take a close look at the 10th amendment and agree with it. It reads: “The mind of the committee is rejected”. The point is that the decisions, decisions, and conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are officially made public the following working day after they are signed. On the same day, the texts of official decisions, acceptances and conclusions are posted on the official website of the Constitutional Court. The committee, on the other hand, proposes not to be late. they were signed not later than seven days after they were duly approved, decreed, or given. You realize that the difference, which is colossal, is in favor of citizens or a group of deputies who make constitutional submissions, that is, us with you. This is about us with you including. Well, I would ask you to agree with the President's point of view, which is basically one of the few in this. in these corrections to bright thoughts, that's why. And the light must be maintained, the light must be given the way. Thank you for the opportunity to make an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u94	The President's 10th amendment with a strong argument on her behalf is a vote. [[11:51:43]] For-19 A little bit convinced. The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[11:52:02]] For the five of us. Not supported. The 12th. Let's vote, let's say. [[11:52:19.]] For two. Not supported. 13 amendments. [[11:52:35.]] For two. Not supported. 14th Amendment. [[11:52:52]] For the Not supported. 15 revisions. [[11:53:08]] For 1 Not supported. 16 revisions. [[11:53:24]] For 1 Not supported. 17th. [[11:53:40]] For 1 Not supported. And the 18th. [[11:53:58]] For 1 None of the president's amendments are supported. I'm voting on a proposal by the profile committee to beat the veto at number 4817. [[11:54:29]] For-44 No, I'm not. There's no other proposal from the committee? Then the bill was rejected. Good law, and we worked hard on it. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is under consideration, Bill No. 2354. [[concerning the guarantee of the judge's right to reinstatement]] It's reported by the author of the bill, and it's from the committee, Elina Viktorovn Shishkin. Please. Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Your opinion is proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[concerning the guarantee of the judge's right to reinstatement]] Actually, I'm the author of this bill. And the purpose of his development, from my point of view, was the situation with the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, who had been released by President Yashchenk's decree, and then some of them had been tried for reinstatement. And this is in particular the situation that took place with Susana Stanic, who was then a court recently, in principle decided on the illegality of President Yushchenk's order to release her. And that's why what's proposed in this bill. This amendment to article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In particular, it is suggested that the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in cases provided for in paragraphs 1.3 and 6.9 of article 23 may be ordered to release him, may be taken at a meeting of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in case the authority which appointed the judge during the month from the date of the end of the situation has not taken the appropriate decision. And the judge of the Constitutional Court has been dismissed from office as a judge since the date on which he was released from office, or since the date of his release. It is also proposed that the law be supplemented by a new article 23. 1, with regard to guarantees of the judge's right to reinstatement. In particular, it is suggested that in the event of a judge’s release under article 23, paragraphs 4-5, of this law, it is meant that a judge’s violation of an oath and a judge’s violation of the requirements provided for in part two of article 16 of this Law, namely the requirement of non-compliance, that a person who has been dismissed from the office of a judge has the right to sue for 10 days of exemption in accordance with the Ukrainian Administrative Judicial Code. The body that ordered the release of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine from office does not have the right to appoint another person to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the term set out in the first part of this article. And in the case of a charge of dismissal, until the end of the terms of the cassation charge, or the court ruling of the cassation institution. That is, if the judge of the Constitutional Court has been dismissed and he has the right to charge his dismissal, if he thinks that his release was illegal, then the body that released him has no right to appoint another judge of the Constitutional Court for a period of time. This is how guarantees are set for the Constitutional Court judge to reinstate him in office, because if the decision of the ordinary court is in favour of the Constitutional Court, then so that this place is not occupied. Next. In principle, it is also suggested that the addition of Article 23.2 regarding the termination of a judge’s authority be standardized. The point is that the actual version of the Constitutional Court Act is a certain coalition. The current edition of article 23 lays down cases of dismissal of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, but the last part of this article says that the judge’s authority ceases in the event of his death. The dismissal of a judge and the termination of his powers are different orders and should therefore be governed not by one article but by different articles of the law, and these are different cases, so it is also suggested that this legal issue be settled. With regard to the committee’s decision, the committee expressed its support for adopting the bill on the basis of some of the provisions that it adopted. When preparing for second reading. In particular, the committee finds that there have been some technical and legal shortcomings, particularly with a view to unifying legislative terminology, in addition to amending article 23, that is to say that the judge's powers have been terminated, is what I have pointed out. It is also appropriate to amend other articles of the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In principle, the committee supports the bill and invites the Supreme Council to adopt it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u96	Thank you. No questions? There's a question. Please ask Yuri Carmazin a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Elina Victorovn, I support the position, but this position has now been rejected in the previous bill, it's only a fraction of that bill. I was just looking, it's right next to each other, there's even comas almost the same. And obviously you included this text in view of the circumstances that we already had in the Supreme Court of Economics, when no one releases that body, then let the Constitutional Court release itself. In that case, a month later, the Demchenk would have been released from office, stopped talking, and we would not have laughed abroad. Or for any other reason, you suggested that the Constitutional Court take a decision in a month, if no one did. Although I say again, article 126 of the fifth part provides for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u98	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich for asking. Indeed, this is a part of the law that we have just rejected, that we have not defeated the President's veto, that these articles have really been introduced to me as a right to that law. And so again, I insist, as the author of the bill, on the adoption of this law in the first reading. And my reasoning was precisely because it was really an unresolved issue with the Constitutional Court. The Constitution of Ukraine states that the body that appointed the judge should also release him. And the question is, if the body does not release the judge of the Constitutional Court after certain cases have arisen that are provided for in the Constitution and in the Constitutional Court Act, what should we do? It follows that this body actually misuses its right to be dismissed by a judge of the Constitutional Court. Or on the contrary, it frees up illegally, and then, as in the Susan Stanic case, it was recognized by the court of general jurisdiction. The Supreme Administrative Court then found that the Yushchenk order for the release of Susana Stanik from the post of judge of the Constitutional Court was illegal. And so we have a situation where we're actually in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In fact, it was instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u99	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss the bill? Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u100	Yes. Then let's write it down, and then let's figure out what to do next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u101	That's probably what's going to happen. Yes, please, from the deputies. So we have five national deputies. I'll call it a 12-hour break for 32 minutes, and then we'll discuss the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. We are in the process of considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[concerning the guarantee of the judge's right to reinstatement]] Let's move on to the discussion. Ruslan Knazevitch, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Too bad there is no drafter, but in principle I would like to express my support for the author of the bill, because I believe that the idea expressed in the bill is absolutely true and in fact it is an attempt to fill in some way those legal gaps that are both in the constitutional field and in the legislative field of Ukraine. What is it? The point is that the situation around the Constitutional Court and the problems associated with the Constitutional Court need a comprehensive solution. I can agree that at this stage this bill does not address all the issues before the Constitutional Court, but it is an attempt to resolve those faced by the new Ukrainian history, including you and I in the session room. With regard to the possibility proposed by the author of the bill to resolve the issue of the dismissal of judges at the legislative level. We just have to understand that the question of the suspension and dismissal of judges are different legal categories. And you and I even remember that there was a case where we stopped the parliamentary mandate, didn't fully understand what was going on with the parliamentarians, whether they stopped their work, whether they were fired or not. The same situation occurs every time the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine suspends the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, for example, by expressing a resolution of mistrust, and then has to release the Cabinet of Ministers accordingly. The same applies, for example, to members of the Central Electoral Commission and other collective bodies. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, this issue is not settled at this stage. And this is how the author proposes to settle the issue. It's very important. The other thing that we can talk about is that the attempt, let's say, if the body, the constitutional body that delegated its member to the Constitutional Court, in some way misuses its constitutional right and the term, and in the order provided for in the Constitution, does not stop, does not stop, or does not terminate, the judge in office should somehow get out of this situation. We recall the situation when, from 2006 to 2007, the Constitutional Court had not worked for nearly two years, including because individual bodies, such as constitutional bodies, were not properly qualified to perform their constitutional duties. How can this be settled? You know, a certain circle of lawyers says that this is going to conflict with the Constitution, is an unconstitutional aprior. But I point out that the final dot in this story can be given by the Constitutional Court itself. And until the Constitutional Court has spoken its last word, we can say that such an approach is constitutional. And there's also a big question that the Constitutional Court will be on the side of, including in the case that directly concerns him. The same is true of the question of the dismissal of a judge who can then charge his dismissal by the courts of general jurisdiction. I agree that this issue must be settled in this way. There's only one observation that this term doesn't last for years, so to speak. Because it might happen that we're going to have a situation when.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u105	When there is no quorum in the Constitutional Court on such matters. And so this is the basis for the second reading to be regulated in such a way that the number of judges who defend themselves in court must be regulated. they would try to regain the guarantee in the Constitutional Court's court was less than the quorum for the decision and the hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u106	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to grant the right to release the judge of the Constitutional Court from office of the body that appointed him. It is predicted that in the absence of the release of the Constitutional Court judge by the body appointed by him, a decision on discharge is also made by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine within a month of the date of the release of the situation, and guarantees of the judge’s right to be reinstated. We note that, in view of the proposal to change the subjects authorized to release the judges of the Constitutional Court separately, there is a need to regulate the procedure for the dismissal of those judges appointed by the President of Ukraine and the assembly of judges of Ukraine. At the same time, the provisions of the draft do not provide for appropriate procedural rules that create a situation of legal uncertainty around the procedure for the release of the persons mentioned. This is especially true of judges who have been appointed by the convention of judges in Ukraine, since the latter is an organ of judicial self - government and is convened once every three years. It is not clear, then, who is to be the initiator of the assembly with a view to freeing the judge of the Constitutional Court and what the terms are. The new version of article 23 2 also states that if the body which appointed the judge during the month from the date of the establishment of the conditions provided for in paragraphs 1-3, 6-9 of the first article 23 did not take the appropriate decision to release the judges of the Constitutional Court from office, such a decision may be taken at the meeting of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Note that the order for the release of judges, particularly judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is clearly and unequivocally defined in article 126, part 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the establishment at the legislative level of any other order of release, and even more so the granting of the right not specified in the Constitution, is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the fact that this bill, which we are considering, is contrary to the main law of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, the faction of the Party of Regions proposes that this bill be rejected as anti-constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Maybe you did, but really, I've decided not once today that the Constitution has been violated. I'd like to show it to my colleague Chetchev and colleagues from the Party of Regions, Lithuanians, Communists again. I want to show you that this is a real and valid article 126 of the Constitution, and it says in part five, paragraph two: “According to Judge 65 years of age”. Do you respect me, Your Honor? Your constitutional guarantor follows this, Mr. Janukovic? What else do you need? Free the man, don't spoil the Constitution. What might be a lack of respect for the Constitution if you are today an example of noncompliance? What lack of respect for the Constitution can you talk about if today your committee does not consider, amend, or carry out its constitutional function? And we're saying today that someone there, a little girl named Evelyn Shishkin, is violating the Constitution. She's trying to make this constitution work, she sees that there are cases. And so she offered this thing, and the thing that was already being tested with you, in which we voted on more than 300 votes. You said, what would happen if someone misused that right? This copy of the Constitution contains the signature of the late Michael the Orphan. He would have come back now, turned over there. You know when we said, let's assume responsibility in the Constitution. Everybody say it's clear. But no one realized that the President was coming, who didn't understand, that there was a faction coming that didn't realize that we couldn't break the Constitution, that we couldn't go against it. That's what this law does for those who don't realize that if they don't get laid off during the month, then let the collegiate make the decision, and we give him the authority. What, though, can we do to ensure that lawlessness continues, without constitutionality? Now I'd like you to know, honourable national deputies, while we're here with you, while you've now blocked a new, normal Constitutional Court Act, changes, regulations, unconstitutional regulations that they've adopted for themselves. There are closed sessions, closed hearings, resulting in such cases, "touched cases" and "touched coalitions", and "touched results" appear on the board. Therefore, dear friends, I would like to ask you to adopt this law in the first reading in order to avoid the abuse of the Constitution. And the law, which is rejected by 4817, has to go back to it, and we also have to accept those.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u110	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u111	Vladimir Karpuk. “Our Ukraine”. I understand that the idea of this bill has been born with a practical necessity that has emerged recently, as far as Judge Stanick is concerned. And the author of the bill introduces a new edition of article 23 to amend the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which clearly regulates cases of dismissal of the Constitutional Court judge from office, which is nine cases, and introduces new articles 23.1 and 23.2. The first concerns guarantees and reinstatement rights in office, and 23.2 is the suspension of the judge's powers in the event of his death. There are reasonable suggestions. And for Ukraine, our faction supports this bill. I give the floor to Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u112	Ruslan Knazevich. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u113	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand the moods of the hall. Obviously, the bill will not be supported. I'm noting what Yuri Anatoliyovich said, that we have just failed a very important Constitutional Court Act, we are now breaking the second Constitutional Court Act. [[You just weren't there.]] Then, I think the more we break the laws on the Constitutional Court, the less we have the moral right to criticize the Constitutional Court. Because there is really an opportunity at the legislative level to correct what is urgently needed to be corrected. And I point out to you that the Constitutional Court Act is valid in the year 96. He is, to a large extent, morally out - of - date. And we need, given that, including the constitutional situation after the 2004 change, to try to adapt it. Maybe because I don't see the prospect of adopting this law right now, we're going to make some kind of vague decision that we're at the level of the Conciliation Council to initiate the development of a new comprehensive legislation concerning the Constitutional Court, even though in the part that Karmazin was talking about. So far, the Rules are in force, the provisional rules are in effect, when we, if you'll excuse me, have a few noses in the mud because we're acting on such a Rules, and you understand what we can do. So in order for this question to be removed once and for all, one way or another is to make a special commission, or a working group, because this is a very important question. All the while leaving the question of the Constitutional Court out of consideration, it is all the time to put ourselves in danger, including the prospect of such actions on the part of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. He's refusing? Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. Various proposals have been made here, and they all deserve attention, including on the updated edition of the Constitutional Court Act, which requires, in fact, time and obviously, an appropriate professional committee to be entrusted on behalf of the Supreme Council, together with the Constitutional Court, to deal with the relevant proposals. I think we're going to set up a protocol commission in the area of the activity of the relevant committee of profile. The committee proposes that the draft Act amending the Constitutional Court Act be adopted as a basis. [[concerning the guarantee of the judge's right to reinstatement]] The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. That's why I'm putting to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as the basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[concerning the guarantee of the judge's right to reinstatement]] [[Registration number 2354]] Please vote. [[12:45:56]] For 135 The decision is not taken. I'll bet the vote on the second sentence. About re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 2354]] Let's do it again. [[12:46:23]] For-167 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to include in the agenda of the daily session a number of bills in order to ensure that, in the event of a positive decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committees have the opportunity to ensure the preparation of draft bills for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'd like to ask my honourable colleagues to make a positive decision so that the committees can study these bills. The proposal to include in the agenda of the draft laws is put to the vote: to amend section I, paragraph 1, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "To amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of soil fertility". [[Registration number 6346, 6346-1]] Please vote. [[12:47:43]] For 346 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote the inclusion in the agenda of the Day Bill of the All-Ukrainian Referendum. [[Registration numbers: 6278, 6278-1, 6278-2]] The authors are national deputies: Spenov, Klukkowski and Konovaluk. Please vote. [[12:48:32]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve responsibility for the illegal treatment of special technical means of non-voting information. Registration number 6191. Please vote. [[12:49:15.]] For 346 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of the Procedure for the Issue of Permitted Documents. [[Registration number 6262]] Please vote. [[12:49:51]] For 342 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts against illegal absorption and the capture of businesses. [[Registration number 6434]] Please vote. [[12:50:23]] For 338 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6263]] Please vote. [[12:50:57]] For 329 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment on the abolition of the registration of a declaration of conformity. [[Registration number 6234]] [[12:51:41]] For 332 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[on the implementation of economic activities on the basis of a declaration]] [[Registration number 6265]] [[12:52:15]] For 322 Decision taken. I propose to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on jurisdiction and the characteristics of conduct in separate categories of administrative matters]] [[Registration number 6247]] [[12:52:48]] For-22. The decision is not taken, the bill is not included in the agenda. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of short-term implementation]] [[Registration number 6274]] [[12:53:18]] For the The decision is not taken; the bill is not included in the agenda of the day session. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill on the Ordering of the Reporting Mechanism and the conduct of the Insurance Review. [[on the collection and payment of general government social insurance premiums]] [[Registration number 6329]] [[12:53:55]] For 238. Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft decree to mark the 350th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Trostyanec Sumska District to include it in the agenda. [[Registration number 6273]] Please vote. [[12:54:25]] For 329 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the bill of 80th anniversary of the birth of the first Ukrainian cosmonaut, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union of Paul Popovic for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 6319]] [[12:54:56]] For 336 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft law on the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies. [[Registration number 6451]] Please vote. [[12:55:31]] For 234 Decision taken. I ask the relevant committees to ensure that bills are prepared for consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular your attention to the last bill. In view of the fact that the President of Ukraine has been appointed as an urgent, State Building Committee, Committee on Foreign Affairs and all the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the matter tomorrow at the meeting so that we can proceed to the consideration on Thursday, as was done at the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, at the request of the deputy factions "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" we need to announce a 30-minute recess in the plenary session. At the same time, according to established practice, two factions agree to speak on a matter requiring a recess of two factions. Anatoly Griesenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Two factions took a break and authorized me to make a statement with two questions: first, this is the tragedy of the student's death. And we insist that they be summoned here to the Supreme Council and that the leaders of the law enforcement agencies be heard so that there is no such action that ends in tragedy in Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. A decision has just been made to put into order the daily bill that the President passed, which we were given 10 minutes ago, on the principles of internal and foreign policy. The chairman of the Supreme Council, following the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of the day, appointed a task for all committees to consider tomorrow and to put it to the vote the day after tomorrow. The two factions are firmly opposed to such harsh terms of consideration. We recognize that the principles must be accepted. What is more, a diagonal view of this document suggests that there is a serious constructive basis for considering this document in the first reading. But we are definitely against repeating the scenario and events that took place here in the sessional room on April 27 -- that's why. We don't have legislatively defined principles of internal politics right now, and that's why we need this document. The previous principles of foreign policy have been in force for 17 years. What does that mean? That means this document is 10 years in advance. There will be no more, probably most people, there will be another President, another Prime Minister, and these principles will work. If the correct strategic document is accepted. Thus, proper responsible strategic documents cannot be accepted for a period of one and a half years. In order to learn, and here only 19 pages, where each phrase is meaningful, strategic, defines principles and in the economy, in the social sphere, in the foreign policy, in the defence, in the informational. We need to think about them. This document should have known society. It needs to be published, and we suggest that it be published on the pages of “The Voice of Ukraine”. It should be examined by experts and only then held by committee meetings. So it's definitely against the accelerated consideration. It is urgent and will not be considered like other bills for years or months quickly. But I'm speaking on behalf of two factions to the majority, and through the information space and to the President, to remove this pressure of time. We will accept this document as strategically important, but we cannot put it to a vote on Thursday. We ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to withdraw this order for an expedited hearing with a Thursday vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Regarding the first proposal she made to hear about the results of the student’s death. I think there will be no objection to the Supreme Council of Ukraine if today a request, an assignment to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and a Friday is received to provide us with information. I think that we should listen to the minister on this point all the more so that the President of Ukraine has placed this issue under his control. Dear colleagues! [[Noise Nodes]] Let's do that. I'm on my way. He'll be ready tomorrow, so tomorrow. I don't see any reason for discussion here. Whom do you need to offer? So we'll ask. Dear colleagues! Then let's do it in the line of work. I'm going to ask Adam Ivanovich. He will contact the Attorney General’s Office, and he will find out to the Ministry of Internal Affairs that there will be reporters who have informed the Supreme Council for 15 to 10 minutes on this subject. And that's the right thing to do. As for other observations, warnings. It's obviously a messy bill. He obviously needs us to think in detail. You know that on the Conciliation Council, we agreed that as soon as it reached the Supreme Council, it would be published in the Voice of Ukraine. I hope it's printed tomorrow. You will also agree that the President of Ukraine has the right to request immediate consideration of the bill. And we need to come out with you, because we need to look at it. But no one is saying that we will pursue and consider it as a reduced procedure. I think if we look at it and the Supreme Council decides on Thursday's decision, we'll have at least 14 days to think about it, to make proposals. The committee will have an appropriate time to generalize these proposals, to prepare a table. And I think we're going to go through this bill in due course. If this takes almost a month, it will not mean that we are looking at it in a hasty way. At the same time, I think the committees should take a look. We're going to view this as a representation of it. And give your judgment. At the same time, I'd like to ask Scientific and Expert, the Institute of Law to make its proposals. And to suggest that people who are interested in this problem be invited to submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But first, let's put the Committee on State Building, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Security. So these are the key committees, and in fact all those who can make their respective conclusions and proposals. Please, Anatoly Gritsenko. Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Head! I support what you say if we understand each other. If tomorrow's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has concluded to the professional committees that this bill is worth accepting as a basis, I'll be honest with you, the head of this department has to be released immediately. Because a document on 19 pages of strategic importance cannot be issued as an expert, thoughtless document. So if you're planning on Thursday, you've got votes, it's going to be a non-vote in the first reading, I don't think we're going to deny it. It's going to be a presentation of the document, but so that it doesn't go on the first reading, and for that it doesn't chase horses and now force the experts of the Supreme Council Secretariat to prepare conclusions overnight and not force the committees to take a look at themselves and the state for which it's done in order for the time to come to a conclusion. Therefore, the presentation without a vote in the first reading “in favour” is perfectly normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u118	Olga Bodnar, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u119	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I support my colleague in the sense that the share of you and Mr. Martinyuk promised that we would not violate the Rules, we do not have the opportunity to deal with these issues on the committee tomorrow. First of all, the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority is that it's still half-baked. There, in addition to the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, you have to consider these issues of subcommittees, and then you put them to committee meetings. I don't know why it's done, but I understand perfectly that this way we can't look at the quality of the product tomorrow, and even more on Thursday we can't look at it in the hall. If we really want this product to be quality and nobody tells us then that we're violating the Rules, I ask you to listen to a healthy opinion and still not to rush into these issues at such an immediate pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u120	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, well, we are working in a completely different dimension today. This has not been the case for the past five years, when neither budgets have been adopted nor programmes have been adopted, and it is not clear what the leader of the country was referring to in the past, when he was conducting an external policy course and had been brought to practically two countries: Poland and Georgia, and after Bender was assigned the title of hero, they did not want to let us go to Poland. Therefore, we must today believe, first and foremost, in the adoption of bills, in programmes that would ensure the dynamic, progressive development of our country in the way of democracy. Therefore, according to Vladimir Mihajlovich, a very reasonable and absolutely correct algorithm: tomorrow's committees will be accepted on the first reading Thursday, then we will finish two weeks if anyone has any doubts. This is the year of the 20th anniversary of the declaration and the declaration states non-block status. Therefore, the basis is the extra-block status. We are in the process of formalizing the main, key point of the declaration. It will be a gift to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I would ask only all of us not to look for reasons for political turmoil. And when they remind us of the Rules, let us work together to enforce the Rules. Yes, we have a problem. According to 101 articles, the President of Ukraine has the right to demand immediate consideration of the bill. But then we have to regulate and record what we're putting into the immediate consideration of the bill. Now for the polls for Science and Law. You, dear colleagues, well understand that different options, and in that document that we got 99 percent of those options, the audience has been working long ago on scientific and legal administration. Unlike the deputies, they work constantly and every day. So there will be an official, qualified, expert conclusion, committee case. And I'd like the committees to gather and work. I want to say again, get going and work. For this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its deputies receive a decent salary. And nothing political problems put first. Gather and work, it'll take night, morning, day, but let's work on the bill. Not tourism of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if there's any objection, I'll put it to a vote on Thursday, and then the Supreme Council's decision is whether or not to finalise this document. But I would ask you not to create political reasons. Please move on to the second reading of the drafts. Once again, please, let's keep the mood for work, no more. Here we go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on improving agricultural support mechanisms]] Registration number 5471. Second reading. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on improving agricultural support mechanisms]] [[Registration number 5471]] [[of December 23, 2009]] The initiators of the bill are the national deputies of Ukraine Jury and Klimec. The draft law is designed to improve the protection mechanisms of agricultural enterprises by drawing foam from the buyer, which will allow for long-term debt compensation and reduce abuse in the agricultural market. The first reading of the bill was adopted on March 4, 2010. Nine amendments were made to the second reading by the people’s deputies. Of these, 4 are included, 2 are taken into account in editorial and partial terms, 3 are rejected as being contrary to the amendments proposed by the committee. The amended bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations and recommended that it be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. But the Chief Legal Office reviewed the draft draft for the second reading of the bill and made a number of comments, the main one being the noncompliance with the Code of Masters. Therefore, the general conclusion of the legal administration that the bill requires further work and a return to read again. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry. The first amendment is included. Yuri Anatolyevich, don't you insist on her? No, it's not. The other one's accounted for. Third count. Four counts. The fifth amendment was rejected. She's being urged by Sigal. No, it's not. Seven of Sigala is rejected. Is he insisting? Eight, accounted for. 9th is rejected. Seagal insists? No, it's not. Gregory Smythech, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The fourth amendment is mine. It refers to a relative. If you look at it, it's partially accounted for. And I insist on her vote, and that's why. I'm counting on the fact that these days and the situation between the producers of agricultural products and the sellers of agricultural products, the network stores that have covered the area do not correspond to the actual action. And these network stores, or stores in general. Those who distribute, abuse, and miscalculate the products that they receive for the implementation of, place them under unequal conditions and reduce the ability of producers to have circulation costs or to receive money at the proper time. Because think for yourself that a producer of agriculture needs to be sown, collected, processed, packaged, sent to a store, paid for advertising -- and wait for an indefinite period of money for this product. And if this product is not implemented, it is often the case today that the cables put it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u126	Please finish your opinion, Grigori Evdzimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u127	So I would ask the room to take this amendment more fundamentally and put it to a vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I will then put to the vote the amendment of Gregory Smythech as he sounded it. I will now read: “Paragraph 14.3.1 of article 14, paragraph 14.3, should read as follows: “The purchaser of agricultural products of the group 1-24 of the HCCP, including excise goods, is obliged to pay for the product after it has been accepted or accepted for the product within 10 calendar days.” This proposal is put to the vote. Please be sure. [[13:13:34]] For two. Then the amendment remains partially accounted for. What are some other warnings? None. Please, the government wanted to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u129	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. This is a necessary amendment to the law, for it has already come to pass. Thank you for the bread that should be used at 72 hours is counted on the fifteenth day, the sugar, on the one hundred and twentieth day. So I want to ask the Supreme Council to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u130	Please, Minfin. Aunt Ivanovna, Minfin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u131	This law provides that the State Tax Service controls the timely execution of the invoices for the goods supplied, which are group 1.24, including excise goods. Our position is that the basic functions of the State Tax Office are defined by the Law on the State Tax Service. It does not provide that the tax service controls the accounts between the operators. In our view, therefore, the position regarding the control of the State Tax Office among the operators cannot be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we're here. You're putting this dilemma here before you choose. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy supports, you do not support. Then reconcile one position: Please go out with one position. We are now talking about the law, the amendments that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken into account. We need to put this law to the vote. Please, Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u133	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we discussed this at a time when we were on the committee. And, indeed, the law is generally needed and can be voted for. It's possible as an exception, because there was a position that there was more control over tax inspection. It could be taken away, but it could be voted on in general. Because anyway, the question is what. We set 15 calendar days. And if it's not 15, and it's going to be there, as it is now, 18-20 -- someone still has to control it. So here, really, we need to reconcile the government's position, let them agree, not generally, I'm very afraid that God will not let this law fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! We're going to talk about whether or not we're voting on the amendments, that's enough, that's it. On the basis of the vote, please. What's the correction? Eight o'clock, please. Please, the microphone, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The absolute correct observation is now made by the Ministry of Finance, because we have the 8th amendment miscalculated, I propose a very simple way out of the situation. It's counted, and I'm now in agreement with the position that Minfin said should not control the calculation of Tax. We had a good point in the law, order of execution of paragraph 14.3 is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and let it determine itself, the Cabinet of Ministers, then. So let's keep this first-reading rule, and this amendment, eighthly, I propose that we confirm by voting, that is, not actually confirm. And then the position and the government will fail, and we need to adopt this law, which will then become completely normal, balanced, and will contribute to the fact that the product will still be unlocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! It's actually the right thing to do here, now one minute, I see, in general, the right proposal, maybe we'll do it this way. In the original version, it was said that the procedure for monitoring the implementation of paragraph 4.3 of the Act was determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A proposal was made by the Ukrainian National MP to control the tax authorities, and we could now go this way, put Amendment No. 8 to the vote. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, if it does not support this amendment, remains an important editorial, and so we adopt the law and take into account the position of the Ministry of Finance. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will determine who he will assign to control the execution of this item and everything. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u137	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, let us remember the classics of Soviet restructuring of Gorbachev: the main thing is to ensure the dynamics of the process. Let the process go, let's start the process, and you know, the process of restructuring Gorbachev led to the birth of the Independent Ukraine, which was a logical conclusion. Let us therefore accept the bill in second reading and bring to a logical conclusion the substantive part of the law so that it does not give rise to any doubt. Please vote on re-second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take this step: both the committee and the committee head agree. Now let's put 8 amendments to the vote. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the 8th amendment, there is also the position that was available when it was adopted in the first reading. Then all the differences between government structures will be removed and we will have reason to adopt this law because it is absolutely necessary. On the Conciliation Council, we came to the only conclusion, representatives of all factions, that we need to adopt this law. When there is no objection, I will now put Amendment 8 to the vote to confirm it. If it's not confirmed, then we're out of differences. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 8. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:24]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Thus, the procedure for monitoring the implementation of paragraph 14.3 of the Act is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There's no objection in the government? The government agrees. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of machinery and support for agricultural enterprises]] Registration number 5471. Please vote [[13:21:17]] For-166 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on re-reading. Once again, there are no more offers, no more offers, no more votes. For re-reading according to the Rules. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please take off your insistence, just like Gregory Smitzhuh, please. [[13:21:47]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you have no objection, perhaps you should assign a committee to finally agree with the Cabinet of Ministers and the factions during this morning's vote, and we put this bill to the vote. Because there's not much to reconcile with. Yeah. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that we have abandoned this bill for a second reading. But I have the hope that in this second reading, you will change the last paragraph. [[the taking of the law in force]] The law was expected to take effect on January 1, 2011. But by January 1, 2011, we still have about 100 villages on the map of Ukraine if this law does not come. So I would ask you, let's write from July 1st, the second quarter will come and it will support agriculture. And maybe that'll justify the factions that didn't vote now. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to consider the proposal for this law to enter into force on July 1st 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u140	Thank you. The committee, please take into account the proposal made by the National Deputy in preparing for the second reading. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on coastal protection strips. [[Registration number 2642]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Seminoga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u141	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! The situation with the protection and use of coastal protection lanes in Ukraine is becoming dangerous. The management regime in coastal protection lanes and water protection zones is in violation of legislation, especially in coastal areas. The current lack of regulation on farming and other activities within the coastal coastline threatens the loss of the coastal coastline ecosystem, leads to pollution of the marine environment, and makes it impossible to exploit the recreational potential of adjacent areas. The draft law defines the size and boundaries of the coastal protection zones of the seas, complements the list of restrictions on economic activity within coastal protection zones, and regulates the issue of ensuring citizens access to the seashore on general water use conditions. The draft law defines the size and boundaries of the coastal coastal zone and prohibits construction within a 100 - foot [100 m] beach zone. When the bill was drafted for second reading, comments and suggestions were considered and taken into account by national deputies, entities of the law of the legislative initiative. The bill included 13 proposals by national deputies, 9 proposals included, 3 taken into account in part, only one not included, which is proposed not to limit the coastline in Ukraine’s Land Code to a specific distance from the sea. The Committee believes that a clear definition of the boundaries of the coastal coastline and compliance with the legislative regime will allow for the conservation of the marine and coastal ecosystem and contribute to the socio-economic development of coastal regions. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had called for a bill. However, it admitted that the bill could be adopted in a second reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes a draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on coastal protection lanes to be adopted on second reading as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 2642]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, as amended. What are some comments on the amendments? None. Please make an offer from the government. Someone in charge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u144	Is this the common position of the entire government? Dear colleagues, the repairs are all taken into account. The committee's proposal to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in second reading and in general as a law. [[on coastal protection lanes]] [[Registration number 2642]] [[13:27:09]] For-166 The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 102, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 36, Communist faction – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 0. I would like to vote on the second reading of the bill, i.e. the proposal to refer the law to a second reading. [[Registration number 2642]] [[13:27:51]] For 347 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Code of Water for Ukraine. [[Registration number 2634]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u145	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, Shershun, Skoubenk, Tolstouchov [[Registration number 2634]] The bill was adopted at the first reading on January 14, 2009. Work on the bill has been under way for more than two years. The bill is consistent with and fully supported by the Ministry of Environment, the State Committee on Water Management, the State Committee on Land Resources. Today, the bill is harmonized, balanced, and ready for adoption. In the drafting of the bill, the comments and proposals of the people's deputies, as well as the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Directorate, were considered and generally taken into account. A total of 141 proposals were made by the people’s deputies, 120 of them included. A small part is counted either partially or editorially. In line with the general conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Water Code may be adopted in a second reading, taking into account the comments made, which according to members of the Committee, do not significantly affect the content of the bill. I would like to express my special thanks to the people’s deputies: Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, Bebazenka Valery Fedorovich, Kruhlov Mikola Petrovich, Matthew, and all those who have made proposals. This has allowed the law to be systematic, beneficial and in a manner that meets the modern realities, problems, and needs of the state and our citizens. The committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Water Code for Ukraine to be adopted in second reading and as a law as a whole. [[Registration number 2634]] Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry. The first amendment is included. The second amendment was rejected. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank the committee for understanding. In general, we found some harmony. Part of the amendments are taken into account, part - no, part - is the theoretical dispute. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will not insist on any amendment today, because there is, in principle, consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u148	Thank you. Thank you for your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Who else insists on repairs? Roman Tjak, please, what's the correction? Roman Tuck's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u150	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I’m basically to Article 6. And the amendments apply from 26 to 34. In general, I support the reporter that this is, in principle, a normal draft. But in such an editorial setting out in article 6, it introduces misunderstandings into the earthly code and into the Law on the Distinguishing of State and Municipal Property. That is why this law cannot be adopted today. We've already made arrangements with many factions. He needs to be sent to read again, to correct article 6, to conform to the Earth Code, and to the Law on the Distinguishing of State and Municipal Property, and until then he can be accepted peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u151	Yes, there are, honourable colleagues, an alternative draft decree signed by three national deputies - Roman Tkac, Sergey Tereshuk and Sergey Rybuk, to refer to the second reading. What is the position of the committee, Anatoly Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u152	Regrettably, the amendments mentioned by our distinguished colleague came when the bill was fully balanced and ready for the second reading in the session room for consideration. And these amendments have not been considered as a minimum. Now I want to point out that all the amendments and all the content were consistent between the Water Code and the Earth Code of our nation. And as of today, your proposals, they're at least destroying the concept of the bill, and they're at odds with the Ukraine's Code of Land and Water. So the committee insists on adopting the bill in exactly the way it is, in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u153	Please speak to the government on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, the bill is complex, in our view. A lot of changes have been made. And our proposal is also to rework and send it out for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u155	Yeah, there's no other offer? Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please withdraw the vote. Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u156	I'm sorry, there's an offer. If the honourable colleagues and the government agree with her, in article 5, articles 6, 51 and 86, and the 13th, 14th and 49th, leave it in the form that is currently in law, in the Water Code of our State. If there is no objection, then we could find and vote for such a compromise in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u157	So then we're going to have to reroute. If it's all right now. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u158	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished rapporteur! Dear colleagues! I'm just sorry about our lawyers and the expert office, who are going to grab their heads when we figure out what we're doing when we take our voices, there's no contact, there's no correspondence, there's no correspondence. The Constitution and the law are in force. So please don't hurry, hurry slowly. To re-read, absolutely here is the consolidating position, the second reading and the Cabinet of Ministers, and parts of the deputies who are professionally assessing the situation with “Our Ukraine”, this is the same as the majority opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we will then follow the Rules. The first proposal will be put to the vote on adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law. Second sentence for the second one again. Is there no objection? Then I make the first proposal for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine in the second reading and the whole as a law. [[Registration number 2634]] [[13:34:39]] For-94 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a second motion for re-reading the draft Act amending the Code of Water for Ukraine. [[Registration number 2634]] To the others again. [[13:35:07]] For 337 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the increase of responsibility for crimes against sexual freedom and sexual immunity]] [[Registration number 5228-1]] The reporter is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Well, while he's running, I'll introduce you to this document. Dear colleagues, I'm telling you again, I don't have a statement. Dear colleagues, 11 proposals have been made before this bill. Vladimir Romanovich, please. I already work here for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u160	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, bill number 5228: on increasing responsibility for crimes against sexual freedom and the individual’s sexual integrity. It was introduced when the “Artec” scandal broke out. I'll tell you that almost all the factions voted for him. There were 11 amendments to the bill. Of these, a total or partial of 5, 6 is rejected. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the reasons for rejecting these amendments were solely the reasons for upholding the legal logic. And so please accept the committee's proposal. The law was enacted by the bill without any notice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, repairs. This is where Gennady Moscal is rejected. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Next. Correction of Sovkovich. The Gennady of Moscal. Don't insist. Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich, Amendment 8, insists? No, it's not. 10th? Neither did I. 11th, Moscal. Correction rejected. Don't insist. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. the main legal administration has no comments to the bill. Vladimir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u162	Honorable colleagues, the amendments that were rejected, were about to be permanently deprived of the will for such crimes. The committee refused to do so until 15 years of age. In other editions, it was suggested that a chemical castration be used in addition to such a severe punishment. But since there is no such punishment as a form of punishment in the codex, the authors have introduced a bill, somewhere in the Supreme Council, then we will consider when such punishment will take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a second reading committee proposal. Oh, take it off the vote. Please, Minust.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u164	The Ministry of Justice is proposing that this bill be re-readed because there are inconsistencies with the Criminal Code. In particular, article 55 of the Codex is a general norm that applies to all articles, especially parts of the Codex. And if we make these changes here in article 55, which are related to increasing responsibility by 10 and 20 years, then this type of responsibility will be distributed to all other articles of the Code that do not provide for punishment, foresee punishment with other articles, but are not related to crimes against minors and are not related to sexual health, crime. So in order to reconcile this bill, article 55, with other articles, we suggest that we reread the second reading. Moreover, there is doubt as to the possibility of applying such punishment as castration without.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u165	There's no question. He's taking it off. He's gone. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to look closely at the bill – I see! – The bill does not immediately take into account a number of proposals that are not part of the legislation. And the Chief Legal Authority concluded that the bill was balanced. We're talking about a bill that's ready to accept a final bill, and you're talking about a project that takes into account proposals that aren't included. Paul Unguryan, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! Paul Unguryan, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I support this bill, and I think that the entire House of Deputies will support this bill because, in fact, six months ago, we voted with you a very hard bill against the spread of child pornography, and these issues are very interconnected. So today, it is sad that the Ministry of Justice has not fully understood this issue. Since that law, which has already entered into force, many of these rules are already in force, they are signed by the President of Ukraine and are already in force today, these are changes to article 131 of the Criminal Code and also to other professional legislative acts. That's why it's very important today on Child Protection Day, on the International Children's Day -- June 1st, we're going to vote on this law, because it's very important for children in Ukraine. Thank you. Our faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Since we've had a lot of talk about abuse of minors, of children, and this bill has gone beyond the legal framework, it's got political sound, and the committee's been working on it, we need to make a decision, otherwise there's going to be a variety of political charges. So I'm voting on a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the increase of responsibility for crimes against sexual freedom and sexual integrity of a person]] [[Registration number 5228-1]] Please vote. [[13:42:33]] For 368 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session in 14 hours for 15 minutes. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 0937]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Polochalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u168	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft law that you're analysing, we have to praise it, designed in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, is a requirement of the law to be taken into account. I would like to say that the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a bill in general, not only because it is a requirement of an article of the law, but also because the bill foresees it, it specifies the priorities for scientific and technological development based on predictable research. This is the first time. The second is that we're finally developing a system of priority implementation through state-of-the-art targeted programs, science and technology programs based on thematic orientations. Thirdly, the state's creation of such a system -- monitoring and forecasting, prioritizing and implementing them -- is essential for the development of an innovative economy. You know, maybe that's one of the reasons, not the main, of course, that the innovation economy we have is an 8 percent component, if we talk about the drinking weight, and it's the worst in Europe today. That is why we need to take this step today. Finally, what I was trying to say was that this law was developed by scientists, scientific organizations. He went through a serious test. There are seven amendments here that are all taken into account. Of course, dear colleagues, I want to say in closing that this law, if we approve of it, of course we will not save our native science. Unfortunately, we have set such a sad record in the 21st century, spending on science under this budget at least among European countries and at least in the history of our post-Radians: 0.43 of GDP. However, since the general assemblies of the Academy of Sciences and others had claims of officials using funds, such a system would allow them to concentrate their efforts, form an innovative economy in a priority direction. So the committee is proposing to support this bill. The committee voted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u169	Finished, Vladimir Ivanovich? Honorable colleagues, as amended, what are the comments?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u170	They're all accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u171	Corrections are included. What is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this bill, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u172	The government supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. At the same time, the Chief Legal Authority concluded that the bill needed substantial work. Furthermore, the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, you and I have agreed that if you do not answer, the committees should reconsider and bring them into line with the requirements of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u174	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can disagree with these conclusions, they are not substantial. So it's not a fundamental inadequacy. I could comment on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u176	And I think that with regard to meeting the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure in part of the changes that have been made to the basis of the project, the proposed text is not materially different from that approved in the first reading. And it was complemented by just one new but very important article -- monitoring the implementation of the parity directions of science and technology. Monitoring the implementation of science and technology priorities is an integral part of this problem. This is not essential in terms of contention. And the other conceptual reorganizational changes that have been made in line with the draft legislation when it was adopted in the first reading and in the substantive sense only improve the bill. So there's no serious denial of scientific expertise here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, you have heard the explanation and position of the committee. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. I remind you once again, the Chief Legal Authority is on what needs to be worked out. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first proposal on the adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Priorities of Science and Technology. [[Registration number 0937]] [[13:48:26]] For-360 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing a draft Personal Data Protection Act. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the chairman of the committee, Vladimir Polochalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! I'm just going to remind you that the draft Personal Data Protection Act was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of June 25 last year and two components, which is why this law is necessary. This is the first to create proper, legal and organisational conditions to ensure the protection of citizens' rights in the process of collecting and processing personal information. And the second is the harmonization of national law with international law. I just want you to know, here are all my colleagues, that the laws that protect citizens' rights in the processing of personal data have absolutely all the countries of Europe, all the countries of SND except Ukraine. The only country that has no law to protect citizens' rights. Therefore, the legislative arrangements for the protection of personal data in Ukraine are the basic language for the improvement of the visa regime, as defined in the plan of measures to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union for 2010. And many of the deputies have met with representatives of the European Union, which include, if we want a visa-free regime, we need to adopt this law, one of the three or four laws, if we really want a visa-free regime. The committee received 105 comments from the Ukrainian national deputies, from which it is proposed that 83 be counted after a thorough discussion and analysis, the vast majority of them. 16 is considered editorially and only six observations are rejected, and technically, rather than by content. In addition to deputies, the bill was worked out by leading experts from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the National Bank, the National Academy of Sciences, the Academy of Law, the Security Service, the Information and Information Services, universities, and the legal sector. The European Commission’s comments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were taken into account in the drafting of the bill. Thus, after the second reading, the bill acquired some features of the law of direct action. I wanted to say once again, the only country in Europe and in the SND that has no such law is Ukraine. The committee proposes a bill to be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, as amended. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on your amendments? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich is honorable, there are amendments that I would like to regulate, I think the committees might agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u181	16th, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u182	Yeah, you're right, 16. How do you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u183	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u184	Yes, you are. Yuri Carmazin. I would ask you to consider amendment 16, dear friends. The point is that part four of article five, I suggest you put it in the paper: “Personal data of a natural person who claims to occupy or hold an election office in representative bodies or a public official’s office, comet, “a member of the National Bank, a local self-government body, does not refer to information with restricted access, except for information defined as such under the law”. The committee writes that it did not take into account the matter of the official of the National Bank and the local government. I want to argue that the National Bank is extremely important, and we've now seen that there's wages per.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u186	From what the committee came out, there is no principle here, because indeed, if there were no article 64 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, where it is established that the officials of the National Bank are civil servants and that they are subject to the provisions of the Ukrainian State Service Act, then this amendment could be taken into account. There's an article like this, and that's the motive for the deviation. So I don't think we need to repeat this rule of law again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u187	I understand. At the same time, honourable colleagues, there is the insistence of the national MP to put to the vote Amendment No. 16. It was just sounded by Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. I bet on the vote of Amendment 16. [[13:53:25]] For-84 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Yuri Anatolyevich, your amendment. Amendment 51. Are you insisting on her? Delete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u188	51 revisions. So that's exactly right. Do you understand what this is all about? The point is that I am writing off the words “except the cases established by law”. So what's this all about? The collected information about the individual and his sources is provided to the subject at his request, except in cases established by law. So the subject's personal data doesn't seem to be leaking information about him, well, it's probably not very serious. Therefore, I say that the words “except in cases established by law” should be deleted, in all cases, in all cases. I guess it's a mistake, I don't think that logically, there, something it contradicted, especially that the committee has very tolerantly responded to the consideration of other amendments I made. There are a couple of adjustments where a little bit isn't how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u189	Indeed, the committee was very tolerant of most of the amendments, most of them being adopted, that is, taken into account. But in this case, Mr. Jury, the motive for deviation by committee logic and by argument is not entirely appropriate. Since ratified by the international treaties and laws of Ukraine have already been ratified, related to the disclosure of classified information, some exceptions to the general rules have been established, such as the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on Operational Search Activities, and so on. If the exceptions are set up, then there's a kind of conflict here. I would simply ask you not to insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u190	I'll bet you a vote. The 51st amendment, or insistence on her vote. 74th Amendment. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on her? “The size of payments for personal data services is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers.” You propose to delete this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u191	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I'm talking about a little bit of something else here. And we've been talking about this before, if that's what it is. In principle, personal data cannot be distributed. And if you pay, it turns out you can. And if you pay more, you can sell on Petrovka, right? Or even on the Internet. That's what I'm talking about. So let's just say this is a committee right over here, I'm asking you to go to my meeting and tell me that we need to take Carmazin's amendment into account, because right now some banks, for example, "Private Bank" already require him to give his personal cell phone and all his data, and all of them, they all fit into everyone. Well, obviously that's, that's not quite all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u192	Well, that makes sense, but that's the motive. We have the Civil Code of Ukraine, we have the payment of services provided under this Civil Code. It's basic. And that's why I think that's going to exhaust this problem. That's the motive of the committee members. I'm just explaining. The Civil Code provides, states that the payment of services is provided under the Civil Code and that all the nuances of the provision of paid services are recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u193	Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on voting? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u194	I'm talking again. Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. Look, here's sub-paragraph 127. Access by other personal data subjects to the personal data of a particular individual or group may be worthwhile. It's the job and so on. I'm just against that approach. You understand. When we say that it's free in the first part, and it can still be paid here, let's just be tolerant somehow. And the next amendment here is 74 to stop taking words, Vladimir Mikhailovich, so as not to abuse. It reads : “the amount paid for the services provided. [[128 paragraph]] The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the personal identity of the persons.” I say let's delete this paragraph and then it'll be clear that this is not going to be such a pay-as-you-go access to personal, I emphasize, data, personal, not publicly available data. There is nothing to go on without money for those who are not under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u195	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 72 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:58:47]] For-103 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote Amendment 74 Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u196	It's the same, so I don't comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u197	I'm still putting her to the vote. [[13:59:16]] For-79 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 103. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 103 refers to what I am asking to add paragraph 2 to the “Final Regulations”, which states: “The President of Ukraine, within a month of the date of publication of this law, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for ratification, signed by Ukraine as early as 2005 by Council of Europe Convention No.108 on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automated Processing of Personal Data”. And I emphasize that since 2005 and now 2010 there have been five years of unratified convention. And I'm asking you to do what we can. You're going abroad, and they tell you, you don't ratify, you're unconscious, and so on. And I say, let's ask the President to do that and ratify this convention. But only the President has to submit it. So I would like to support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! I'll put this proposal to the vote. At the same time, we cannot write down a commission in the law. Because it's going to look a little bit illogical. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u200	The committee's motive, the honourable colleagues. I understand Mr. Yuri Carmazin and I support him. But that is not the norm of this law. This is not the norm of this law. And there are other ways of reacting that could have been done here since 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u202	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! And the committee understands, and you all realize that since 2005, the convention has not been ratified. Yeah, why don't we do something different? God is with her, with this amendment. She doesn't have to vote. Give the commission to the protocol committee and the government, and let them address the President with such a request. I don't want my amendment to be taken into account. I'm not vain, I've had a lot of changes in my life, I want to make things right. Let's work it out, this case. And let's do this convention called "To protect individuals in connection with automated processing of personal data", number 108, it is the Council of Europe Convention. We're ratifying. Just give the commission, let them prepare everything. This is the first time. And by my 105th amendment, so that I no longer take the word. There is the commission of a committee of the Supreme Council, which includes preparation, a preliminary consideration of issues related to the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms. Including the use of personal data and execution. Control the execution and application practices.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! Let's work it out this way. With regard to this convention. Today, I will assign the apparatus to study the situation and make an appropriate request. As far as the committee is concerned. I would like to ask Yuri Carmazin to agree that this is not necessary in view of the fact that, in accordance with the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, once the Law of the President of Ukraine has been signed, he is immediately directed to that committee that is to ensure that this law is implemented. Therefore, there is no need to remind the committees that they should do what they have to do, in accordance with the law of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Then there is no need to vote on these amendments. Vladimir Ivanovich, a general conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u204	DO 105 mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u205	No, not at all. We've already agreed to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, once again, I wanted to say that there were more than 100 amendments, 90 percent taken into account either entirely or in part, editorially, i.e. they accounted for virtually all amendments to all ministries and departments and departments and special services. And they just took part in the tolerance of Mr. Yuri Kamazin. Since we have a country that looks very bad in terms of our image in the context of this problem, I would like to ask you to vote for this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u207	Government position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u208	The government supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the Personal Data Protection Act. [[Registration number 2273]] Please vote. [[14:04:25]] For 355 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law is under review. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we continued for 15 minutes in the morning. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, we've continued, you've all heard, please. A draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service is being promulgated. [[Today we have a Taras Blackwall noun, and you all have to go meet him.]] [[on the regulation of the legal status and the allocation of diplomatic rank]] [[4785, second reading]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u210	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow members of the National MPs, I will not now mention the essence of this law, its meaning, we have discussed this very actively when we were adopted in the first reading, very seriously asked us to support this bill from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is indeed essential today for the full and normal functioning of Ukraine’s diplomatic service. Now I'm moving on to the second reading procedure. 92 amendments have been made to this Act, of which 46 are taken into account in full and in full, taken into account in part or taken into account in another edition of the 22 amendments. In fact, they can be considered entirely because only some adjustments or transfers to other articles and suggestions were MPs. The 23 amendments have been rejected and most often, with deep respect for the authors of these amendments, I have to say that they have been rejected because we are now implementing an exact rule of the Rules that we cannot make, let's say, amendments to those provisions that have not changed in the first reading procedure, or those that in our view are still contrary to the concept laid down in this law. As far as the amendments are concerned. Most of the amendments made were made by the absolute majority or by the very authors of the law, Boris Johnovich Tarasyuk, Leonid Kojara, or members of the committee. Where even they were rejected, we agreed at a committee meeting. These people have no claim to these amendments, and we can go almost automatically on them. There are a number of amendments that have not been supported in Gregory Omelchenka, in Yuri Poluniev, and there are a number of amendments by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, once again, most of them we find absolutely correct, but in view of this rule that was adopted in the Rules, we can simply regulate them in the next individual bill amending the Ukrainian diplomatic service. Comments were received from the Legal Authority. The committee considered them very carefully and very carefully, and we have very serious claims and objections to these observations that have come to the Legal Authority. For all 10 comments, if the Supreme Council's will and the Supreme Council's approval, I'm willing to give a detailed account of why we deny it, every single one without exception. The most painful of them is that we've violated the rule of law, which seems to have changed the articles that didn't change in the first reading. I've already given examples. Because a number of norms that we would very much like to introduce, but by scrupulously implementing the Rules, we have not done so, and we are proposing to the authors and the Ministry that we also prepare those standards for a new bill on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u211	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u212	In this regard, if it is your will, we can go through the amendments, and in fact from those present in the Hall who have not been supported, I see only Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin and would simply address him. Yuri Anatoliyovich, really, most of your amendments are absolutely correct, we just physically couldn't make them at the first edition that was voted into this law. If it were your agreement that we would then work along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a series of provisions that you're proposing, and perhaps the same ones that our other colleagues, Gregory Omelchenko, are proposing, and beyond, because there are no limits to perfection, they have been working on the next changes that will be made regarding the legislative regulation of our diplomatic services.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u213	I can see that Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin agrees. Microphone, please, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You and I may all be joining the good health wishes of Taras Viacheslavovich, and we welcome him on his birthday, but that is no excuse. You know, "Pluto is my friend, but the truth is more expensive." How much more? Amendment 10 and Amendment 9 refer to powers, constitutional powers of the Supreme Council and constitutional powers of government. I'd like them to be absolutely correct, for the articles that are written, Tarase Viacheslavovich, this is your page. Do you have it? This is the 31st and 32nd paragraphs, Amendment 9 and 10. In one case the position is confirmed, it should be recorded by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and in the second, the Consular Statute, which is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is recorded. It's written by the President. And now you're proposing to the President. The President has no such powers, unfortunately, under the Constitution. There are no such powers. So I just want to get you into the Constitution, no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u215	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u217	Yuri Anatolyovich, we've been looking at these amendments in very detail, I know these two amendments at the committee meeting. They were based on the fact that the Constitution states that the President is in charge of foreign policy, carrying out Ukraine’s foreign policy. We think that the standards in the 31st, the 32nd position in the left column, they fall within this constitutional standard. I wouldn't go into a discussion, here, really, a world-viewed understanding of how to treat, as to me, not exactly the clear norm of the Constitution. It's not the first time we've encountered this. The committee, by a majority of votes and with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, accepted this editorial. I don't see any objections here. If there's a vote on these points, but I'm just afraid they won't be supported in the hall. We came out of that understanding of the Constitution, this very norm that gives the President those technical capabilities. The moment of management. We don't think these are conceptual moments. So the statute of consular service we don't think that's what's defined by the laws of the Supreme Council. We think that's what falls within the rules of the President's activity. Believe me, among the drafters of the bill, two key authors represent opposition today. They don't have much sympathy for the President, but they did support this kind of reading of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u218	Yuri Carmazin, please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u219	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished Taras Vejacheslavovich, distinguished fellow MPs! This is about the Constitution. The 92nd Constitution states: exclusively by the laws of Ukraine are defined, I quote, “paragraph 9 of the External Relations Principles”. What is the “consular statute”, which is “external relations”. The presidents are changing, and the Supreme Council is left as a status authority. And it's not about dragging ropes, it's not going to add anything to anyone, it's about the legitimacy of everything that's being set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u221	Because both the title and the rank, they are established by the Supreme Council, and then assigned by the President in order to carry out his functions, i.e. he has functions to implement, and we have functions to establish. That's why we have to approve this position -- the Supreme Council -- so that's why it comes out of 92 articles of the Constitution. And it doesn't matter which president, as his last name, Yanukovich, is the glory of God, Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u223	Yuri Anatoliyovich, if you knew how I agree with you, but there is another article in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u224	Let's not go into this discussion in the plane. vote on the amendments. So I will put these amendments to the vote if there is no objection and the Supreme Council will determine. I put to the vote amendment number nine Yuri Karmazin. [[14:13:54]] For-53 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the amendment of the 10th Yuri Karmazin. [[14:14:13]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! There's this proposal, or we're going to make a final decision on this law, and if there's any pressure on the amendments to go, then we're going to have to call the morning session closed and continue at 16 o'clock. That's why I'm proposing and asking you to come to my first offer. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u225	Thank you, the government, Vladimir Mikhailovich, supports the adoption of this law on second reading, as proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m0.u226	The government is asking you to pay attention. Is there no other offer? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Service of Diplomacy. [[on the regulation of the legal status and the allocation of diplomatic rank]] [[Registration number 4785]] Please vote. [[14:15:27]] For 315 The law is passed. Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 p.m., we'll continue our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule.
