ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:28]] Registered - 423 The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Leluka Aleksija Volodymyrovich and Radovc Arnold Anatoliyovich. [[Applause]] I ask that we welcome our colleagues and wish them health and success in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 16 to 19 November 2010. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place, 26 issues of the agenda were discussed, and 5 laws and 3 decrees were adopted as a result of their consideration. You know, among them, the Tax Code, which we're going to return to, I think, in the near future, as well as 5 laws and 3 decrees, one bill is passed on the basis, one bill is sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, four bills rejected, 61 parliamentary motions declared. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules, we have 30 minutes to address authorized factions with applications, proposals, messages, information, and so forth. Commissioners from factions, please sign up for the speech. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u2	Dear Head, colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! Tomorrow December 1st is 19 years old from the day our country’s citizens voted in favour of Ukraine’s independence. In fact, all the legal attributes of the sovereign State came into existence in the past. On the political map of the world, a great European country has become de jure with its people's millennial history, its own traditions and mental characteristics, with problems and difficulties, and largely produced by these characteristics and gains, but more of the potential, of our people's well-being and well-being. And in contrast to the horsists and soloists, who are well - trained in their own interests to sow in society, especially the Minor, the panic and the mood of disaster, I hope that the present economic and social problems are going away. Clearly, if politicians and public institutions are self - critical about their activities, willingness, and ability to correct the inevitable in the face of changes in error, at least not to repeat them. However, I will stop at the problem more vividly. In an analogy with the words of the Bulgarian character about the breakdown in the head, I will point out that independent consciousness is the most complex. On the outside, though, constant orientation has become quite common for those who consider themselves to be Ukrainian elites. It is as if the uncles in Brussels, Moscow, or Washington are going to pat their heads or clap their shoulders, or, God forbid, wave their fingers, may seriously depend on the underlying processes in Ukraine, the dynamism of its development, the maturity of the social organism. It's a great illusion of politicians who think they're patriots, and they're actually suffering from a hidden set of low value, not self-sufficiency and addiction. In connection with the said bond in the children’s sandbox, the lobbying of the political commissioners from Ukraine on European Union parliamentarians was a reminder of how to make the European Parliament’s resolution as harsh as possible, and the phrases as squeamish as possible and as negative as possible. Yet, it was not possible to see that everything that was happening in Ukraine in this difficult time for all of Europe was painted in black. But I wanted to. But it didn't work. The European Parliament's resolution has proved to be balanced, balanced and hopefully useful for Ukraine, because first of all, the unengaged eye will see in it a whole series of complimentary things addressed to our nation. Secondly, much of it, such as the bloc dedicated to Ukraine's key role in ensuring the energy security of the European Union, demonstrates its own interests in the EU. Thirdly, a number of trends relate to the issues and problems of power and society in Ukraine, the functioning of the political system, shortcomings and gaps in the organisation of social life. Fourthly, there is a series of good advice that Ukraine itself needs to implement, for example, the call for Ukrainian authority. I quote: “Ensure that electoral legislation is completed in due course, in advance of the parliamentary elections in 2012”. End of quote. Therefore, the desire to present the European Parliament Resolution in black and white does not correspond to its essence, but rather is intended to hide its inefficiency in the fight for black color only. At the same time, the effort of some domestic politicians to force European structures to deal with tax legislation in Ukraine seems completely anecdotal. This is when in France, Portugal, Greece, Italy, the United Kingdom, other countries of the West, there are neither hundreds nor thousands but millions of shares against the tax and other changes made by the governments of these EU countries. In this regard, it is embarrassing to forget that the Ukrainian Constitution denies the issue of fiscal and amnesty taxes even in a national referendum for reasons known to experts, and this is strictly an internal one. In view of what has been said, the old, borrowed model of behavior and perception of the world “the barin will judge us” looks more archaic and unproductive than ever. Because it's time to think that the real judges of our effectiveness are inside the country, not abroad. And so a better future for a truly independent state in the hands of its independent people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u3	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction, please. Hell-bent Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u4	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! According to the Communist faction, such fundamental codes as tax, labour, housing are primarily social codes, and should therefore aim to, if not eliminated, at least reduce the gap in income and living conditions between a small part and a group of millions and billions and the vast majority of our citizens who have minimal income. I would like to remind you that only according to official data, there are almost 13 million people living below the poverty line in Ukraine, and, in return, there are almost 13 million survivors. I therefore call on you, colleagues, to listen to the specific proposals of the communists so as not to undermine the rights of workers, to prevent discrimination against citizens on property, territorial, age, education and other social grounds. The employer's violation of the existing KZOT has become a customary practice in Ukraine. This is non-payment and delayed salaries, informal employment, unpaid leave, non-payment of specified benefits, non-retirement benefits and so on. Therefore, we did not vote in favour of the proposed Labour Code in the first reading, nor will we vote in the next, because, firstly, the new Labour Code is unacceptable in the draft of the new Labour Code, which allows for an increase in working hours and working weeks from 8 to 12 hours and weeks from 40 to 48 hours respectively; secondly, the new Labour Code allows employers to set unlimited working hours within days by subtracting periods when the employee expects the assignment or, for example, construction materials, raw materials and so on, that is, for the employer's simple and inaction of the employer's fault, the employee is paid. We, the Communist deputies, believe that this should not be an increase, but a reduction in working hours and a working week. Of course, no wage cuts, so that you have more time for family, for theater, for museums, for sports, for elementary recreation, after all. Thirdly, the provisions of the Labour Code aimed at the destruction of trade unions as associations protecting workers'rights are unacceptable. For example, firing an employee can, and will, be possible and will be without the consent of trade unions. Fourthly, there is nothing good about the new Code for Ukrainian Women if the current Code prohibits women from working at night, the draft of the new Labour Code gives the employer the opportunity to do so. Fifthly, initiatives that give full freedom to the employer in the area of employment contracts are unacceptable. In fact, the Labour Code does not oblige the employer to enter into a contract with a hired worker, but, if so, without the participation of trade unions and principally by means of regulations issued by the employers themselves at their own enterprise. And by far the slave rule, the employer is not responsible for violating his own regulations. This practice is contrary not only to common sense but also to the Ukrainian Constitution. Dear voters and colleagues, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft Housing Code, proposed for second reading, repeats the ideology of the Labour Code, which protects the rights of not workers, not the rights of most of our citizens, but the interests of builders, energy, finance and other magnets. Under many parameters, the new housing code is contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution and significantly narrows the existing rights of citizens. First, once the Housing Code has been adopted, all queues will have to be re-registered and re-ordered. There is no guarantee, however, that anyone who has legally stood in line for housing will be on new lists. Secondly, citizens are deprived of the right to housing from the State, the indefinite use of it by inheritance and privatization. Imagine a situation where a tenant of this kind died, where the family would go, on the street? Third. The new Housing Code allows, practically, to deprive people of their homes without hindrance under the pretext of transferring a building from a living fund to a non-resident. All of us are well aware of the way construction raiders work: bribes, threats, violence, court decisions paid. Fourthly, the new Housing Code not only pays the penalty for the late payment of utilities, but also offers a tenfold increase. Moreover, non-payment entails eviction. This is when the official salary debt is about two billion bracelets when jobs are falling and unemployment is rising. Is that not the end of cynicism of the so-called “bourgeois democracy”? Naturally, neither the Labour Code nor the Housing Code can be adopted. We, the Communists, will do our utmost to ensure that our proposals are accepted and that the rights of our citizens, the rights of Ukrainian workers, are protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u5	Alexander Peuklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Yes, please. Andrew Kožemyakin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u6	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Since the first day of President Viktor Yanukovic's work, the whole country has been expecting concrete steps from the head of State to reform to change the country's situation for the better. The reforms discussed by the President in his electoral programme are now taking on real contours and outline. A very important step by the President was the restoration of the governance of the State, without which no initiatives could be implemented. Today, power in Ukraine is perceived as predictable and predictable throughout the world. Judicial reform in the country was one of the first to begin. Yes, to claim that after judicial reform, the domestic femida suddenly became just and humane too early, but that we have taken a serious step to ensure that the Ukrainian court takes decisions on the laws and not on the rules of the judiciary is a fact. One of the greats said, “When money ends in the country, reforms begin.” The problem for Ukraine is that money is not finished in the country, but ended in 2009 and many years ahead. Since the first days, the Government of Azarov has set priorities. Today, when our giants have been left unloaded by auto-, air-, shipbuilding, the new Tax Code is focused on their support, how can we oppose it? In Ukraine, between 20 and 60 per cent of the primary commodities consumed are imported. The new Tax Code is aimed at supporting the agricultural sector and the light industry. How can you be against that? Critics and opponents do not notice this, but they do in principle: we have not read the Tax Code, but we do not like it. I read it, and I don't like it either, because no one can like what they take from them. But even communism provides for taxes. The hottest disputes were heated around an article that affected small businesses. My strong belief is that power is in great debt to this sector of the economy. I'm sure there will be a time when small business monuments and a simplified tax system will stand in every city. Regrettably, the existing tax system for small businesses has used hundreds of thousands of enterprises to create tax communism in a separate university, jewelry store, boutiques, duplicates and cars. Since the first day of the promulgation of the draft Tax Code, power has gone to public discussion. It is the part of the business that is currently small that has sent 2,300 amendments, and they are largely accounted for. But there are still 2546 amendments that have not been taken into account, because they are aimed at de facto paying taxes as a farm that has grown its petruki in the garden. Shops selling expensive footwear and clothing are credited to the budget with ridiculous amounts. The shoelaces and collars on the suits in the window of their shops cost more than they pay taxes. The fancy restaurants pay taxes for the cost of their cup for an hour without sugar on their company. Unfortunately, the private enterprise institution has today become a state-wide legal framework for tax evasion in the budget and the Pension Fund. According to the most modest estimates, the State does not count at least 200 billion annually through these schemes. The budget and the Pension Fund would have had half of that amount to increase pensions and salaries by three. We guarantee that there is money in the country, that it is not a small business that affects the budget. It affects the interests of those who are accustomed to earn hundreds of thousands and to pay cash. I repeat the Tax Code, not a gold red to please everyone, but alternatives to getting the economy out of the shadows, paying attention to you, not to power, not to the country. Of course, the last point in this question is not simple for all to be raised by the President. I am sure that it will be a compromise between the requests of the State budget and the opportunities of taxpayer citizens in the real economy. I am convinced that, with the adoption of the Code, small business will have real development and that the country will have a second breath and the prospect of being European not only geographically but also socially and economically, first and foremost.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u7	Andrew Kožemiakin, Faction of the Fatherland. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u8	Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! In view of the resonant events, the widespread protests that are taking place today throughout Ukraine, the faction “The Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland” is authorized to declare. We demand that Viktor Yanukovic immediately veto the Tax Code of Azarova Tihypak, approved by the Presidential majority in the Supreme Council in the interests of the national oligarchy. By serving a large capital, the government converts the entire fiscal burden into a small enterprise, doctors, teachers, and workers who have found a way to support themselves and their families through self - employment. The tax code destroys the middle class as the foundation of democracy and society. Millions of people and their families are on the verge of survival. Therefore, there can be only one requirement for this Tax Code — no cosmetic rights, full, unreserved and immediate veto. The authors of this document demonstrated their inability to manage the country and to ensure that the budget is filled within the framework of the Constitution and the current legislation. They showed misunderstandings about the processes that are taking place in the domestic economy. They are responsible for the budget failure of 2010 and the break-up of the 2011 budget process, they are not responsible for the positions they hold, and they have to resign. In order to implement a balanced and equitable tax reform to develop a new Tax Code, a working group of representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, authorities, and opposition must be established. The Fatherland Party and the Timoshenko Yulia Block offer an alternative way to address the problem of budgeting. It must be decided primarily by means of the powerful fat reserves of the Ukrainian oligarchy. There is a gold bottom to increase the budget at the same time, this one, incredibly rich and very influential one, the bulk of our society is the most underpaid in the state treasury. It is no secret that the oligarchs pay not as much as they do by law but as much as they do by law. The rest of the resources are offshore and are not taxed in Ukraine at all. Therefore, the Fatherland faction requires the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Double Taxation of Income and Property on Cooperation with the Offshore Area of Cyprus, which is in the State of Cyprus. Which makes it impossible for a traditional national oligarchy to avoid taxation by taking out capital into offshore zones. After all, about $24 billion was exported from Ukraine, according to official data from nine months prior to offshore zones. These are net shadow incomes from which no amount of tax is paid. The business environment of the head of state, who has learned to teach tax culture a small enterprise, should first and foremost learn to pay taxes. We also propose to introduce real, not declarative, acquisition taxes: private planes, helicopters, yachts, Lux class cars, for real estate in the event that they are measured by thousands of square meters and for assets that occupy more than one hectare. The law that we have established must guarantee the preservation of a simplified tax system for small businesses and allow them to work for at least five years in a stable manner. Our philosophy of tax reform is fundamentally different from that of power. Seatbelts should not be tightened by those who have nothing left to breathe. The burden of reform must lie on those who have been richer than in the last 20 years. We also need to protect small businesses, and equally important is the middle class, which is to be the basis for the irreversibility of democratic processes in Ukraine. In the event of our failure to meet President Yanukovic's requirements for the promise of the Tax Code, there are obvious reasons for turning the economic protest into a powerful political resistance movement by the leading opposition forces, because the protection of the middle class is the protection of democracy, which is the protection of our country. And lastly, we are addressing the majority in Parliament. The time for you to push the buttons thoughtlessly, with one wave of your hand, must end. And this is not what we, the opposition, are telling you, is what the Ukrainian people are telling you. Listen to him. Until it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u9	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Last week was marked by massive protests by Ukrainian entrepreneurs against the Tax Code. People have been shown, for the first time in a long time, we have seen self - organized and unpaid demonstrations. They express the position of many millions of citizens. Even before it was approved, it was clear that the Tax Code does not improve either tax legislation or tax administration, nor does it lead to a marked increase in the filling of budgets, nor to improvements in business or investment climate. And in the medium term, we're going to have a massive transition of small business into a shadow, and a big surge in unemployment. The worst part is that the codex carries a powerful component of corruption. First of all, the powers of the supervisory and law enforcement authorities are further strengthened, and business in general is denied the protection of its rights. Instead, ignored rules on the liability of officials for refusing to accept tax returns, tax returns, and so forth. In summary, the corporate tax is more orderly than even the one foreseen by the new Tax Code. The surge of corruption will push Ukraine down, even compared to its current 134th. Even so, the poor investment climate in our country will be colder, tenderer to the North Pole, resulting in two conclusions. First of all, this Tax Code, in its present form, has no right to exist, nor will it benefit the budget, nor the country, nor the people. And cosmetic repairs here won't help, and the fiscal repressive principle on which the document is now based needs to be radically changed. As long as entrepreneurs are forced to pay a shadow corrupt tax, all discussions about the size of official taxes are pointless. But is this parliament able to make a fundamental difference? Better put a moratorium on tax change and leave everything as it is, at least it won't get worse. The introduction of the Tax Code from the following year, as declared by the government, is contrary not only to common sense but also to the Budget Code. We have to go back to the legislative field, the government has to present to the Supreme Council the country's socio-economic development programme and the 2011 State Budget project on a valid legislative basis, and we'll finally see how Kabmin thinks our economy is going to develop. Let me remind you, the budget project was to be adopted on the first reading by October 20, but no one has seen it yet. What quality would be the country's main economic document, if the government now wants to extend it "a cavalry jump", so was the sad tax code, once again "travel on the same rakes". It's a big mistake to think that one code will solve all the issues of Ukrainian fiscal policy. The main problems relate to inefficient government spending, budget execution, and so forth, while the cost of maintaining the holding is substantially reduced. Secondly, we need to finally take on a real fight against corruption. Specific proposals: To prevent any further interruption, or cooling, of the anti-corruption package adopted by Parliament on June 11, 2009. We also have to return immediately to the re-reading of Bills 4472 and 4420-1 called for the introduction of new mechanisms to fight against the corruption of civil servants. I also consider it necessary for the Supreme Council to adopt the Law on Access to Public Information as soon as possible. With the help of the media, they will be able to effectively control the appropriateness of the statements and declarations made by officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. As for the suggestions that have been made. I ask you to prepare an appropriate commission for the Tax Code. Dear colleagues, we will have the opportunity to work on it on Thursday. As for Cyprus, well, if the committee is ready, I mean, then we'll work on Thursday. As for Cyprus, I have now asked the secretariat to raise a draft agreement that we have been considering all along, and the Supreme Council has not ratified it. If there's no new document, we'll return this document and I'll put it up for review at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we have to make the final decision and put it at that point. I don't think there's any objection, do you? Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. I am now, Your Honor, suggesting that you consider the question, the chapter on the inclusion of drafts in the agenda. And please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Law on the Structure, Authorisation and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agricultural Association of Masandra. [[on the state-owned enterprise Wesselwski]] [[Registration number 7285]] Please vote. Here comes the vote. [[10:30:39]] For 242 Decision taken. Please, Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko's Yuli Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, from now on. the inclusion of more than 30 legal acts in the agenda. I would like to remind you that, for the current call to Parliament, 2 000 243 bills to amend certain laws and only 477 bills are basic bills. This clearly speaks of the quality of the bill. With regard to the inclusion in the agenda, I wanted to draw your attention once again to the requirements of article 93 of the Rules – a preliminary review of the bill in the committees, where it is clearly stated, by Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that the bill, which has been registered, comes to the committees, prepares committees conclusions on the necessity and possibility of incorporating the laws into the agenda. A Budget Committee opinion on the impact on income and expenditure and the Rules Committee's conclusions is being prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u13	It's all there is. And I don't think you've done a great discovery, and that's all there is. What about a large number of bills? 80 percent of the bills are documents initiated by the Ukrainian people's deputies, the rest being the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on privatization and land relations. [[Registration number 7328]] Please vote. [[10:32:51]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 (to determine the chief budget officer of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine (registration No. 7317). Please vote. [[10:33:32]] For 259. Decision taken. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. [[on the order in which district councils are formed]] [[Registration number 7307]] [[10:34:10]] For 253 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on social protection issues in the area of observation of objects designed to deal with radioactive waste. [[Registration number 7308]] [[10:34:48]] For 305 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund. [[on bringing in compliance with the terminology of Ukraine's laws]] [[Registration number 7309]] [[10:35:24]] For 288 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Animal World Act of Ukraine. [[on the conservation of wild birds]] Registration number 7335. Please vote. [[10:36:00]] For 302 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the conservation of the civil protection facility fund. [[Civil Defence]] Registration number 7248. [[10:36:36]] For 298 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve bankruptcy procedures. Registration number 7329. [[10:37:06]] For 298 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the powers of military officials in the Armed Forces of Ukraine]] Registration number 7247. [[10:37:39]] For 297 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[establishing administrative responsibility for a breach in the field of national registration]] Registration number 7254. [[10:38:12]] For 259. Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in part of the issuing of the person. [[Extraditions]] [[Registration number 7306]] [[10:38:41]] For 298 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on priority directions for innovation. [[Registration number 7333]] [[10:39:10]] For 306 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Red Cross Act. [[about an additional notation mark]] [[Registration number 7310]] [[10:39:40]] For 299 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on the Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation Foundation]] [[7286]] Please vote. [[10:40:12]] For 304 Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 7 of the Law on Pipeway Transport. [[on the head of the housing fund]] [[Registration number 7249]] [[10:40:44]] For 260 Decision taken. Draft Law on Refugees and Persons requiring Additional or Temporary Protection. [[Registration number 7252]] [[10:41:15]] For 304 Decision taken. Draft Act on Amendments to the Act on Notariat. [[on requirements for notary activity]] [[Registration number 7304]] [[10:41:44]] For 257 Decision taken. Draft Law on the Concept of State Information Policy. [[Registration number 7251]] [[10:42:09]] For 313 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of the adoption of individual categories of children. [[Registration number 7332]] [[10:42:39]] For 249 Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment. [[on Civil Protection Units]] [[Registration number 7250]] [[10:43:11]] For 307 Decision taken. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on insider information. [[Registration number 7330]] [[10:43:38]] For 258. Decision taken. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on targeted bonds. [[Registration number 7331]] [[10:44:04]] For 244 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 [[on the repayment of debt for sub-credits granted to energy-generating companies]] [[Registration number 7346]] Just a minute. Take it off the vote. Antonina Boloura, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Bill 7346, like the following 7388, needs to be considered separately at a committee meeting. tomorrow's committee meeting and the daytime session is scheduled for consideration of these bills. I suggest we move on to the next day. After the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, let's do this. I'll put it to a vote. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, then the second proposal comes into line. In action, to be exact. If he supports, the committee will consider and make its decision either negative or positive. That's why I'm only voting on inclusion, not consideration. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 [[on the repayment of debt for sub-credits granted to energy-generating companies]] [[Registration number 7346]] [[10:45:58]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Please identify yourself on the committee. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 [[on the reduction of the collection volume in the form of a target allowance for an active tariff on electricity and heat]] [[Registration number 7388]] What? What? I'm betting on the vote on inclusion, so. [[10:46:36]] For 222 Questions, i.e. the bill is not included in the agenda. Draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. [[concerning the powers of local public administrations]] [[Registration number 7344]] [[10:47:13]] For 296 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 [[on the granting of State budget subsidies to local budgets to cover the difference in tariffs on thermal energy]] [[Registration number 7398]] It's just that respected colleagues have been handed over from the government, asked to be included, because we need to be counted. Well, please! Integrating into the agenda. We have to count on the electricity we've consumed. Please, please, vote. Integrating into the agenda. [[10:48:08]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pricing, 7264. [[on improving consumer market price control]] [[10:48:41]] For 248 Decision taken. Draft Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2011, registration number 7352. [[10:49:10]] For-286 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the regulation of labour and service relations and the removal of legal gaps in legislation on matters of public secrecy]] Registration number 7233. [[10:49:47]] For 304 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on improving the system of self-regulation in the securities market]] Registration number 7316. [[10:50:18]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on mandatory public social insurance. [[on the stabilisation of the activities of the public compulsory social insurance funds]] Registration number 7365. [[10:50:54]] For the 250. Decision taken. Draft Amnesty Act, registration number 7400. [[10:51:21]] For 279 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 7343. [[on keeping periods under guard]] [[10:51:49]] For 287 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, we've considered this chapter. You can see how productive we've worked here, by consensus. I think that's how we work on the veto on Thursday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Could I have a word with you, please? Katerinczuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u16	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Since September 6, 2010, number 7091 has been registered in the Karmazinim Bill on Denunciation of the Cyprus Agreement. The RSR on the avoidance of double taxation. If you please, you can also include him in the agenda, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u17	I'm informing, and I've informed Taras Cnerwell. I ask him to speak again, he will inform the committee on this matter. Please, Taras Blackwall, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The bill went to the committee for consideration. But there is a principle: Counterversive documents that raise doubts are dealt with on the committee only in the presence of authors. Yuri Anatoliyovich, unfortunately, does not attend our committee meeting, he did not present this document. But we still considered it. It was concluded that this document was contrary to both the Constitution and the legislative rules. This position was expressed by opposition factions themselves. Therefore, we believe that the position of the Chief of the Supreme Council to return to a document that was once not approved, but which was legitimately submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, would be most logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u19	That's what this is about. Dear colleagues, I asked the secretariat to look for the document that we were considering, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support it. If you have no objection, I'll put it to the vote, put it to a vote, and we'll make a decision. Because waiting for a new official document to come up, I don't think we can go on, and there's a lot of political talk on this. Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I wanted to draw your attention to the requirements of article 93 of the Rules on the preliminary consideration of draft laws by the committees on the relevance of inclusion in the agenda. Now we've included a number of bills in breaking the Rules. Half of them didn't go through the committee anymore. A portion of the committee’s application from 30.11. Well, we don't have to use these methods anymore when we're filing a 30th committee, and today we're looking at it. When were these committees able to consider these questions? So all of this leads to a situation that has resulted in a state of legislative work in the Supreme Council. How many laws do we make about amending the laws? It's just a nightmare. Thus, proper work requires that we first follow the procedure laid down by law. And no one is given the right to violate this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no violations. I realize that our colleague has such an arrangement: to come to work in the morning and to say five times that there are huge violations and then to report that he has fulfilled his tasks. There are no violations. So please calm down. At the same time, note a number of bills that are of personal interest to your faction, there is no document that was introduced yesterday, and then you vote for them. So let's not blame the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but all of us to organize the work of Parliament together, but I understand that you're doing your job. Everyone's got a job. Please help us organize the work, not tell us that everything is bad. Dear National Deputies! Let us move on to the next section of the Bills directly. I'd like to ask the rapporteurs, and, more specifically, the representatives of the committees, who have made provision for the preparation of these or other bills for consideration, if possible, to suggest that these issues be dealt with in a simplified manner. Because more than 140 questions have been proposed for this plenary week and we should be able to consider them. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Vines is being announced for consideration. [[on the competence of the central executive authority of agriculture]] Registration number 7049. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy of the Bulls Sergey Viktorovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikhailovich Kaletnik. Gregory Mikhailovich! Can't we do it in a reduced procedure? There is a suggestion to address this issue with a reduced procedure, please vote. Head of the committee. [[10:57:13]] For 203 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! The main purpose of the bill is to avoid duplication of existing legislation by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine. The change is made in order to empower the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the list of documents required for approval by the central authority of the executive authority to establish the dates for such approval, since it is not logical to recognize the terms of the examination of the procedure for submission, approval and approval in relation to the competence of the central authority of the executive branch of agriculture. The Ministry wants to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u23	Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable national deputies, the purpose of drafting the bill, is to avoid duplication of existing legislation by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Wine and Wine Act. The adoption of the draft law will provide legislative solutions to the following issues, approval of technical documentation and regulatory documents for the production of wines, acceptance and use of foreign technology documentation, processing or destruction of forged wines, vermouths, cognacs of Ukraine, brandy confiscated by the court. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations carefully considered the bill at its meeting on November 2, resulting in two observations. The draft law identifies a specially authorized central authority of the executive branch of agriculture. There is no such organ today, so on the first reading, we propose replacing these words with the central authority of the executive branch on agrarian politics. The second observation was made by national deputies in the committee in order to keep Article 15 unchanged, since it refers to forged wines, vermouths, horsemen, brandy being confiscated and destroyed in accordance with the order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If removed from the law, as proposed by the authors, by reference to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it remains an uncertain body of central executive authority that should be responsible for this type of activity. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u25	Thank you, too, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Two for, two against. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, BUT-Batychina faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u26	Vladimir Bondarenko faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear friends! Of course, throwing a reference from this document to who is fully responsible for the forgery in Ukraine, i.e., well, or organizing a fight against this phenomenon, is not possible. Because it has reached a threatening amount today. Look at the statistics on deaths from alcoholic beverages that are faked not just by using dyes or perfumed mattresses or some of them not very good, but ethyl alcohol. It's about using, and it's a pretty wide range of uses, methyl alcohol, other supplements that make those drinks seem like alcoholic beverages. In particular, I learned that only 100 grams of special essence is enough to produce a huge batch of cognac that makes color and smell seem to be special. So not only do we need to step up the fight against this phenomenon, but we need to introduce elements of criminal responsibility that are serious enough, I would say, with a great punishment. Because murder with a knife or a gun or something is punishable, or a gradual, or direct, killing of people by distribution for use, including through the legal trading network of counterfeit alcoholic beverages, causes thousands of people to die. Look, in Russia it's gotten to us in general, the nature of the epidemic, it's moving towards us, because the worst thing that our neighbors have is definitely going to happen to us in two, three, four years. Therefore, it is imperative that the Cabinet of Ministers coordinate this activity, take responsibility, and strengthen the fight for the use of these counterfeits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u27	Thank you, too. Dear National Deputies! Any more of the factions that didn't come forward, do they insist? The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that we have reason to put such a proposal to the vote. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine to adopt it as a basis. [[on compensation to the central executive authority of agriculture]] [[Registration number 7049]] [[11:03:35]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. [[concerning the licensing of wholesale sugar trade]] Reporter - Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Yakubovich Igor Valentinović, co-rapporteur - committee head Kaletnik Grigory Mikolajovich. The committee suggests that this issue be considered on a reduced basis and I put this motion to the vote, please vote. [[11:04:31]] For 204 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar, developed by the Ministry of Agriculture Policy. Paragraph 2 of article 3 of the Act on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar provides that optical sugar trade in the internal market of Ukraine is carried out by business entities with special permission. [[licenses]] The number of licences for the wholesale trade in sugar is unlimited, but the Ukrainian Act of 1.06.2000 No. 1775-3 “For licensing certain types of business” does not provide for the licensing of wholesale trade in sugar. Thus, in Ukraine the law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar is not implemented in the area of the licensing of wholesale trade in sugar. And this issue remains a matter of law and order. With a view to reducing the types of commercial activity that are subject to licensing and implementing the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity and on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar in part of the licensing of wholesale sugar by the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar is being developed, which provides for the repeal of the Ukrainian law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. [[concerning the licensing of wholesale sugar trade]] It should be noted that, at present, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar, which provides for the introduction of a mechanism for the declaration of residues of sugar by operators to obtain reliable information on the quantity of sugar available in the country and to establish responsibility for violations of such rules. [[Registration number 6380]] On the count of what you've been taught, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u29	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, the bill proposes to exclude part one, second and fourth of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar in order to reduce the types of economic activity that are subject to licensing. [[concerning the licensing of wholesale sugar trade]] The introduction of these measures as a means of overcoming market instability has not justified itself in noting national MPs, members of the Committee on Agriculture Policy, and Land Relations at the committee meeting. An example of this is annual price hikes, sugar deficits. Therefore, taking into account the above, the bill proposes that the Ukrainian Law should be repealed “On State regulations for the production and implementation of sugar for the licensing of wholesale trade in sugar with a view to reducing the types of commercial activities that are subject to licensing. Ukraine, with such beautiful lands and fine workers, experts in the cultivation of sugar raw materials, as well as the processing of sugar, can not only provide its state with sugar but also form a serious export potential for this scarce type of production. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also suggests that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Considering that the adoption of the bill would contribute to the establishment of a more effective mechanism for producing and implementing sugar in Ukraine, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Pavlovenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u32	Thank you. Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u33	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, above all, it seemed acceptable to refer to the activity of our Ministry of Agrarian Policy, which has already been proposed by law to us in various aspects of the regulation of the agricultural product market in Ukraine. But I have this impression every week that our ministry is starting to look more and more like the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, rather than the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, but some kind of business stock company that's putting more and more regulatory forms in place to give special permission to constantly have problems with people working in the agricultural sector who are working in the agricultural market, so that they have more and more problems and they don't come out of the ministry, matching different moments. So it's suggested that we create special funds that only functioned in the Ministry. Dear colleagues! You haven't been seen in regions for a long time, you don't feel like peasants today, you don't see what a village lives on, you just try to share everything, you know, share it, you don't see it. What it all smells like, we all understand. The Ministry would like to see it updated in a slightly different role. And that's a big comment from everyone I'm talking to, Ukrainian agrarians and national agrarian deputies, including. Please consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u35	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko. I'd like to draw attention again to both the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the government's lack of attention to the problems of the village. A month ago, the minister of the agro-industrial complex of the Jury stood on this rostrum and told us about the attention the government is giving to the village. I would like to reiterate that out of the billions of planned funds in the State Budget Stability Fund, APC funds have been allocated copies. Neither the credit policy is financed nor the support of the animal industry, nor are the other directions foreseen in the budget. I said, where's the money? Why are agribusiness programs financed on a residual basis? Why is today’s government, today’s ministry, not paying attention to supporting rural investment projects? What are you going to do about the country and the economy, at the expense of Euro, which is what 6 billion you found? And to a village of a billion, 80 million dollars a day. For 80 million dollars, will you pick up the village? How will you live if you threaten the village? I'm paying attention to Ministry officials who don't even hear what opposition deputies are talking about. You're leaving the Supreme Council and do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u37	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is insisting on the issue? No, it's not. I'm voting on a committee proposal that matches the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. On the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production, implementation of sugar. [[concerning the licensing of wholesale sugar trade]] Registration number 7195. [[11:13:30.]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I am introducing a draft Act amending article 210 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for military misconduct]] Registration number 7020. We've got a change of report here. Instead of Minister of Defence Ježel Mikhail Bronislavovich, Deputy Minister of Defence Andresuk Boris Pavlovich will report on the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Vladimir Romanovich, can I take a shortcut? The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. And I'm actually going to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please compile the bills in no article, but in 10 articles, what changes and draft the bill. And yes, the change in the article, we're looking at it. Please vote on the proposal for a reduced procedure. [[11:14:49]] For 203 Decision taken. Please, Boris Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending article 210 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, developed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, is in motion. The purpose of the bill is to increase the level of responsibility of military and military bounds. This is due to an increase in the number of offences in this area during the 2005-2010 period. Article 210 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences provides for changes that increase fines for the commission of this offence by 2-3 times: from 1-3 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes in the previous edition to 5-7 – the draft Ukrainian law on the offence of the first time; once again during the year of the offence, it is intended to increase this figure from 3-7 non-taxable minimums to 10-15. The implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the state budget of Ukraine. The draft law was discussed at meetings of the Supreme Council Committees on Legislative Security and National Security and Defence and on the outcome of the meetings, and it is recommended that a bill be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u39	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u40	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! The report from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine made clear the substance of the proposed amendments to article 210 of the Codex. It is, in fact, that until the Ukrainian army has gone into a contractual form of military service, they have to report their whereabouts, come to the army, get a message, and so forth. Regrettably, in the last two years under review, there has been a great deal of exclusion from service. That is why the Ministry of Defence, in fact, has asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to raise fines for such offences. They will also be insignificant — from 5 to 7 untaxed minimums instead of 3 to 15 instead of 7 — for qualified reenactment. The committee requests that the bill be supported as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up to discuss this matter. Yes, please show me the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Karpuk, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u42	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the adoption of this bill, although we clearly understand that this is not the solution to the problem, because the army has long become an army, really, workers and peasants, and the army goes to those who either want to serve, or those who can't redeem themselves from it. And whoever worked on the boards of engagement knows that, in fact, a few hundred per year in every area there are those who are hiding from the medical commission, from the fact that they are accounted for. And in fact, by raising a small administrative responsibility, of course, this question will not be solved. It's like a complex question, and here should be the active ministry, and increasing the prestige of military work, and increasing the wages of military personnel, and moving, in fact, into a contractual army, financing an army and all. Because it's just a dot mechanism that's reflected in a little bit of people again. Although this bill can generally be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u43	I want to say again, let's not make any of these accusations. Two to go, two to go, two to go. It's only from factions. Here, please. I beg you, no charges. You have every right to blame, and I have only one right to answer. Dear colleagues, is the matter completed? Done. No one insists on factions? I'm voting on the proposal. Yes, I'm sorry. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance. Well, wait, we'll talk later. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Law amending article 210 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for military misconduct]] [[Registration number 7020]] Please vote. [[11:20:42]] For 301 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I am now introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Adaptation of Persons Who Were Punished as a Limitation of Will or Deprivation of a Term. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 7045]] The rapporteur is Minister of Labour and Social Policy Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Mr. Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. So, now, one minute, I'm going to see how many articles there are. There are 26 articles. In accordance with the Rules, we can consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:21:53]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Act on Social Adaptation of Persons who have been punished in the form of restrictions of will or withdrawal for a certain period of time, adopted in 2003, introduces a slow pace. One reason is not to define the powers of central and local executives, local self - government agencies, and organizations. The proposed bill provides for work to be done in preparation for the life of the condemned before their release from their places of deprivation. The definition of Minpraci and Minsimiyoungsport by the central executive body that builds they will carry out general coordination on providing assistance to freed persons. Identifying the centres for social adaptation of the freed persons and special boarding homes for senior citizens and disabled persons as specialized institutions that will directly help these people. In addition to identifying the powers of the entities that provide assistance to the liberated, such as central and local executive authorities, local authorities, labour and social protection agencies, the State Employment Service, authorized bodies that carry out social work with families, children and young people, internal affairs, health care, and businesses and institutions, organizations of nonstate ownership. Last but not least, it is the provision of medical and health care, the provision or preservation of housing, the issuance of passports and the registration of residence or residence, the provision of temporary shelter, social, medical, legal, educational, rehabilitation and other services, depending on the needs of the liberated person. The adoption of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget. The adoption of the law will allow the provision of services to persons released from places of deprivation of liberty to be arranged. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u45	Snack. A. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u46	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u47	Vladimir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposes the adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Act on Social Adaptation of Persons Who Were Punished as a Limitation of Will or Deprivation for Certain Periods. The main purpose of this bill is to improve the social care of the freed persons, including the identification of the main tasks of the participants in the process of social adaptation and the coordinating bodies. The project proposes a clear division of the functions of coordination of work towards social protection of the release of persons, including by 35 years of overall coordination, by a specially authorized central executive authority, and 35 years later, by a central executive body in the field of labour and social policy. The bill proposes to improve the subjects of patronage, terminology, and social adaptation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the idea of the bill, supports this idea and the Committee on Law Enforcement, but both, and other institutions have said that the bill does not comply with the rules of the current Employment Act, the general obligation of state social insurance in case of unemployment and other laws. Therefore, in support of the idea, the committee and the Chief Scientific and Expert Offices propose not to reject the law, but to direct the authors of the legislative initiative to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a faction discussion: two for, two against. Please put your name on the board. Oleg Zarubinski, please. Vladimir Yavorowski will then speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u50	Oleg Zarubinski, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Romanovich rightly said that the idea of the bill was correct and, in principle, the issue was related to social patronage, and should now be in the criminal execution system, first of all, in the system of execution of sentences and subsequent activities related to social adaptation and re. As they say, the socialization of these people who have retreated is very important. What's more, actually, two things are most important in this situation -- it's the prevention of crimes and crimes, but once it's done, it's the resocialization of these people. And countries where the penitentiary system is enough to have more attention even give just how to socialize a person, how not to make it the second time, or, for God's sake, the third time go back and not become a recidivist. So the question of the mission, the normalization of the functions of two ministries to answer and coordinate this work, is essentially correct. It seems to me that it would be possible to go another way than was suggested, that is to say, it was a rejection of this bill. There's no point in rejecting it, because those observations that give scientific expertise to committee members are of a very technical nature that can be corrected when preparing for second reading. I think you might consider adopting this bill in the first reading, and the disagreements, they're clearly, by the way, in the conclusion of the science-experimental management are written, not left behind, not put in a long box, long box, but correct until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u51	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, “BUT” faction, “Batakščina”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, our constituents! This has already happened, in paws, of course, a "traditional" word can be said, sadly, that a person who is very often, sometimes accidentally caught in these prison, prison Ukrainian, and before that Soviet, in fact, comes out with a higher criminal education, gets the highest, that is, titles, knowledge about what and how. And because of this, of course, this law is essential, and in other countries, of course, everything is done to make sure that the person who came out of there adapts very quickly to normal human life. We have, indeed, even some of the high-rises who got into the same hammer the second time, you know that. That is why such a law is essential. Another question is that the version of the law that we have today, that we read today, is really very weak. The first is that the basic function of this retraining, adaptation, is based on the central authority of our authority, which is led by our colleague Nadrag. Apparently, this is where they're supposed to play. You realize that from Kiev to raise people in places there and all that, it's not going to give you anything, so it's going to be totally relapses, repetitions there and so on. Because of that, it would obviously have to shift the main focus to the local authorities, not excluding, of course, the central body of the Ministry of Labour. Because I think it's foolish to reject this bill. I repeat, he's very weak. And we probably don't have to expect any reactive results from it. Because of that, it's probably worth it today to go over some of our legislative ambitions, to accept it in the first reading, to give a certain lift so that you can then make some adjustments to it, and at least make it a little bit more perfect. I'm not saying it's gonna be perfect, I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u54	It's too complicated, too thin, there's too much psychology, and whatever you want. I propose, and the Yulia Tymoshenko Block proposes to vote for it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Who insists on expressing his point of view? You don't? No one insists. I'll bet the vote first on the adoption as the basis of the draft law. At the same time, I remind you once again that the committee is proposing to reject this bill, and that is the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the social adaptation of persons who have been punished in the form of a restriction of will or a waiver of freedom for a certain period of time. [[new editor]] Registration number 7045. [[11:32:11]] For 233 The law was adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we are considering a draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Creative Workers and Creative Associations. [[on the predominant right of creative associations to contract rentals of public or municipal property]] [[Registration number 7171]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:33:05]] For-198 Decision taken. Please, Head of the State Property Fund Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, please. Prepare Yavorowski from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your view is on the draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional and Creative Workers and Creative Associations. The project was developed by the National Property Fund of Ukraine, requiring a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to introduce a moratorium on the eviction of creative communities. The content of the changes proposed is that creative associations are generally given to other natural and legal persons the right to contract rentals of premises, state and municipal property when the previous lease is concluded. Such a predominant right is granted under the conditions of proper performance by creative associations under such a contract. The exercise of exclusive statutory activity and without the right of transfer of this property to a subsidiary or a joint venture agreement. In fact, the rules of the law on professional creative workers and creative associations are applied to the rules of the law on the rental of state and municipal property, which will make it impossible to deal with these situations. Please support the bill and accept it as the basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u58	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In our time, we made a decision and adopted it with a large number of votes, that is, we responded to the situation in society. It's about that, in the first place, the Chernobyl administration, a young team that literally threw artists out of workshops. You know, it was the same publishing industry, the "Swilight" bookstore, and so on. So our response was adequate, and we asked the government to respond, to confirm our decision by a legislative act. Such a legislative act is prepared, you have it. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality has some points to it, but we think the most important thing here is that, first of all, we have ten national associations in Ukraine today: writers, artists, cinematographers and so on -- I'm not going to count all of them. And some have their own property, some don't have their own property, they rent. And those who don't have their own property, of course, are in a very difficult situation because the rent ends and they're very often thrown away. This bill gives them priority rights to continue renting. At the same time, it prohibits sub-nordinary, obviously you can't argue about sub-orendance, but there's one objection that the committee denies. If they fail to meet certain conditions, they have the right to break up, break the deal, it's very dangerous. Because who's going to determine the level of these, let's say, breaches. One day or two days, let's say the creative community didn't have time to settle or pay for the rent, and that could be the reason why it's already on the second day, let's say, break the deal and throw it out. That's why I'm offering to accept it on the first reading, and in the second reading, we're going to go through this bill and remove some of it, what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u61	Then we will accept very calmly in our second reading. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u62	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up, two for, two against. Please, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u63	I give the floor to my colleague Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u64	Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we in the system of professional creative associations should clearly define the only rules of conduct that will force the local and executive authorities to act according to the law, not to private commercial interests, when the local authorities offer them entrepreneurial structures instead of a place where the creative community places a restaurant, a bar, or, let's say, a holiday facility. And in this situation, it's clear, both the official rent fee and the additional salary that stimulates local officials, is that creative associations are in an unfavourable situation. And they're incapable of competing with business. I would think that in general, we need to approach the relationship between the State Property Fund of the local government and those organizations of public utility property that work in the humanitarian field on a single principle. I mean, for example, publishing state utility property. Just yesterday, I was in the Wessel publishing house, which is barely surviving, and it's not in a simple situation either. Because it is extremely difficult to maintain it on a level playing field. So I think the first reading should be approved. But Vladimir Yavorowski is absolutely right, is concerned about the proposal the government makes, which is: “the failure of creative associations to fulfil the specified terms of the lease contract – is the basis for its early dissolution in the established law of order.” In what way, what tools? This is accepted by the State Property Fund. So who's the pitcher? So it can create a situation that I've been talking about before, which is that some business structure can convince the local authorities to act in a way that, for their interests, it's more convenient to evict some creative organization. So I would like to vote in the first reading, with the State Property Fund to work on the second reading, and to define the general principle of this activity not only for creative communities, but for all organizations of humanitarianism, which are in state and municipal form of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u66	Thank you, please, Vladimir Karpuk. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u67	Our Ukraine. We support the adoption of this law. And I want to pass on the word to the author of the basic Creative Associations Act, Michael Kosev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u68	Please, Kosova microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u69	Mikhailo Kosov. I asked for the word in connection with the fact that when we adopted the basic Creative Workers ’ Law, creative associations, creative associations, and the property of creative communities were still in such uncertain condition, for many of the creative objects were common property and all - union institutions and republican Ukrainians. There's one thing I'd like to do here, and I'd like to go directly to the State Property Fund. Because those objects that have moved in from allied property to us for years, not that they haven't been rebuilt for decades, they haven't been repaired, they've gone to us, to creative societies in an absolutely neglected state. So we would have to take this situation into account, and when the creative community has some kind of property that needs huge capital investments, the community itself is unable to find these investments literally. And if it is for a period of time, a small term lends a portion of the property to the rent, it is obvious that this situation should be taken into account and not considered to be an act that leads to a violation of the terms of the lease. If we take that into account in the second reading, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u70	Thank you! Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the bill, of course, if it were to be criticized, he was “pulled over” and incomprehensible, here the speakers said that “the creative associations had come from the Soviet era. In all the facilities where the unions were at the State level, the order was always cultural, clean and located in the best central areas of the city. Today, when the current ones got to the pen, this property, which in 20 years, they were part of the leaders of these communities, and part of it, other than political destabilisation, they didn't bring it into society, they just couldn't raise money to buy it. Now they have gone out to the government and ask: give us the right to receive priority. You understand that this is already a political issue. He's not just like that. Let us examine what the spinach is doing today. Nearly half of them are anti-Russian and anti-Russian. Why? Because to date, these columns are largely based on nationalistic ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u72	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u73	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party To my conviction, this bill has the right to be. I wish it was because any country has to stimulate and help creative people. Because there are people who themselves pierce their way through elbows, heads of anything, feet, and there are things that the state needs to support. But in a meaningful way, I've got two lines on this bill. Well, with a certain dissonance, I'd like to make a statement about those words, to say that you can't foresee certain sanctions if you don't have a lease. Respectable, creative associations, if they are a legal person, must perform contracts. Let's be honest. Another point is that the treaty should have rules that would allow these creative communities to carry out these agreements. But in advance, the apreiors talk about the possibility of failure to execute the lease agreement seems to me not to be valid from a legal point of view or even from other points of view. But from a second point of view, I would like to support this bill, and I would like to express my doubts more precisely. You know, it says that the position that creative communities have the right to own and use and to dispose of ownership rights in accordance with Ukrainian legislation is something that's taken away from the existing bill. It seems to me that this is not entirely accurate and, in any case, it may narrow down the rights of these creative communities under certain circumstances. So the priority right to rent is going to be a plus. And this position, I think, in preparing for the second reading, we need to see that it doesn't have any negative effects. I believe that the first reading can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u74	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Professional Creative Workers and Creative Associations on the predominant right of creative associations to make a contract for renting public or municipal property. Please vote. [[11:46:33]] For 354 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Bill number 7176 is under consideration. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Free System of Economic Activities. [[on transformation, issue of duplicates, cancellation of documents of a permissive nature]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:14]] For 216 Decision taken. Please report to the Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Yacushina Galina Mikolayovna. Please, two minutes. Get ready for King's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u75	Brodsky's on the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u76	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! The bill introduces rules according to which the issuing of documents of a permissive nature, such as the recasting, the issuing of duplicates, the revocation of permits by operators, is carried out in accordance with established law of the law of the permissive centre, solely by the state administrator through interaction with local authorities. The law provides for the release of all necessary information to be provided by the State administrator’s authorized authorities. Law supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on October 20. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u77	Thank you. Natalia Juryovna Královska, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! A bill aimed at improving the business climate in the country is proposed to your attention. Although it is difficult to talk about improving the business climate after the adoption of the Tax Code, we will at least be doing cosmetic repairs to our legislation. The bill is continuing its policy of introducing international standards into Ukrainian legislation that operate in various developed countries around the world. Regrettably, this bill is not accompanied by international standards of conduct and rules of procedure of officials. But we're still going to try to improve Wednesday at the legislative level. That's what it's about before. the implementation of the principle of organizational unity. This principle is to establish an effective system of interaction between the public administrator and representatives of local licensing authorities on the issue of a permit document. It establishes a clear procedure for obtaining permit documents, as well as for reshaping and issuing duplicates, and cancellations. According to the proposals contained in the bill, entrepreneurs should contact the public administrator at the licensing centre. The local licensing authorities are already involved in this work. This bill contains significant benefits because it restricts the contact of the entrepreneur with the representative of the authorities of the licensing centres, as well as the negatives that the scientific and expert office has very clearly presented to us. Since the State administrator for the nature of its activities is the mediator between the operator and the authorization authority. However, it is common knowledge that the facilitator in any chain of activities has increased the time and costs needed to achieve results. The bill is therefore a test for the authorities. If they can arrange the work of permits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u79	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u80	The authorization centres and public administrators on a truly serious European standard, when the State administrator is an effective assistant and communicator, the bill will have a major positive effect. If it is another centre of corruption feeder, the bill will only increase the pressure on business and increase the corruption component. We look forward to the second reading of the bill. We hope that power does have a desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u81	Natalia Yuriovna, two minutes, sorry. We hope so, too. Sit down. Please sign in. The Committee’s decision should be read instead of discussing the Tax Code, which had nothing to do with it. Please two "for", two "against". Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u83	Now, please, Natalia Královska will now tell you about the committee's decision. Ask for it in a national language, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I believe that, first of all in this bill, we must destroy the ability of officials to increase the corruption component of the pressure on business. Because the single window principle works well enough in all the developed countries of the world. In our country, he has been working in absolute depraved form for the past 10 years. The bill provides an opportunity to improve and address this problem only if the standards for the introduction of a single window and a permit centre are indeed under strict State control and the prestige of the work will be in line with the responsibility of the authorities today. The Committee's decision is to support this bill in its first reading, but to make a substantial finalization of it until the second reading. And I also point out that the principle of the silent agreement that we have adopted with you earlier this year is not working today, and we urgently need to adopt a bill, to finalize it, because in this case there is a chain gap: the permit centre we will bring to organizational unity, and the declarative and the principle of a tacit agreement will not be fully implemented. In doing so, we will not improve the business climate, but significantly worse the business climate, because we will introduce an additional intermediary. Therefore, I reiterate my appeal to you, Adam Ivanovich, please, silent consent and the declarative principle on the agenda as soon as possible. I also appeal to the MPs to support this bill on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u85	Thank you. Please. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to introduce extradition, transformation, issuance of duplicates, cancellation of documents of a permissive nature only through the state administrator at the detention centre. The purpose of the project is to focus all documents of a permissive nature solely through the state administrator of the free centre of the relevant city council, the city of district or republican importance, its executive body, the district and district authorities in the cities of the state administrations, the Kyiv and Sevastopol city administrations, in which the issuing of documents of a permissive nature or the reshaping of them, the issuing of duplicates, cancellations are carried out in accordance with the principle of organizational unity. [[The Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] [[Kiev, Sevastopol]] The implementation of the legislative initiative will facilitate the obtaining of documents of a permissive nature by the subject. The faction of the Party of Regions suggests that the session hall support the bill in the first reading. And we, the authorities, are now considering adopting this bill in the context of government policy, to deregulation of the economy, to support small and medium-sized businesses. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u87	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, literally two words. I'd like to ask the appropriate Committee of Entrepreneurship and our committee, so let's just focus. This is the tenth or fifteenth bill on the same subject. It's just like that. Let's make one thorough document that will deal with these problems. Because you see, if you've read the expert board's comments carefully, they say that this bill is already in conflict with what you and I have accepted about the single window principle. Natalia Juryovna asks for another look at it and so on. So once again, I would ask both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Profiles to regulate these issues so that we don't accept these bills every day on a single sentence. It's worth adopting a comprehensive bill, and we only have the same thing every week. The line will be after the vote. I am voting on Bill No. 7176, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. Please vote. [[11:56:49]] For 313 The law is passed. Royal, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I fully agree with you that it is necessary to prepare comprehensive documents. And if we're talking about deregulation, deregulation should really be when those institutions built in 20 years are being broken. You've been in economic regulation for 20 years. Today is one of the main challenges of our investment and business climate. After this, of course, to prepare one document, we see that power is not capable today. We are, of course, grateful that they are at least preparing several documents that we are considering and trying to adopt as effectively as possible, and that we are already finalizing at the committee level, because those comments of the Scientific and Expert Office that are relevant here have already been removed in another law. It's just that the conclusion was prepared just a little earlier than we're looking at in the hall today. But the need to prepare an integrated document, and we are ready here to cooperate with the State Enterprise, is clear. You can't cure the economy with flying holes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u89	Thank you. We're looking at Bill 70. Let's look at this bill and then. Let's take a little break. Bill No. 7097 is a draft law amending the Tourism Act of Ukraine on informing the consumer of tourism services. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:58:37]] For 207 Decision taken. Please, First Deputy Justice Minister Ivanovna Jemelyanov. Get ready for Najdion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act with the aim of informing the consumer of tourism services. From developed to implement the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to EU legislation. In particular, to ensure the protection of the rights of consumers of tourism services, to provide consumers with reliable and timely information on the tourist product in order to enable them to make informed and competent choices. In particular, the project provides a list of the required information that the user receives about the tourist product. Compulsory essential conditions for a tourist service contract are laid down. Such essential conditions include the period of stay at the place of the tourist service, the characteristics of the means of transport, the characteristics of the hotel or other accommodation, the types and modes of food security, the data on the insurer, the price of the tourist product, the form of the calculation. The project also provides for the conditions under which the price of the tourist product can be changed, which is clearly defined by the term, namely that only in 20 days should the consumer be informed by the tourist agent that the price has changed. And if this price is changed by more than 5 percent, the recipient of tourism services has the right to refuse to receive this tourist service. I asked, honourable national MPs, to support this bill and to approve it in the first reading. It will really protect the rights of consumers of tourism services and ensure that they are properly informed about the quality of the tourist product, so that, in fact, the consumer can take the right choice at the right time, whether to travel or to benefit from the services of a tourist agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u91	Yes, please, the Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Najdjonov Andry Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on 17 November, reviewed the draft Law on Tourism and amending the Act on the Tourism Act on Information to Consumers of Tourism Services, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 07.09.2010, registered number 07097. The bill deals with the following issues: mandatory provision to tourists of the necessary, accessible, reliable and timely information on the tourist product, which is embodied by supplementing the law with a new article, 19.1: “Information to consumers about the conditions for the provision of tourist services”. The other one. New obligations are being laid down for the travel services contract, which is being implemented through a new edition of article 20: "Tourist service agreement". Article 23 “Voucher” is proposed to be deleted. But a number of suggestions have to do with this. During the discussion at the committee meeting, many comments and suggestions were made to the draft law. And in preparing for the second reading, the committee takes them into account. The adoption of the bill is based on the support of the Chief Scientific and Legal Office, expert, I apologize. His remarks could be taken into account in the second reading, and the committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u93	Thank you. Shall we vote? Yes, please sign in. Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u94	Respectful national MPs certainly need to do something to protect the rights of the consumer. I think a lot of us have flown planes, especially charters. You're coming to the airport, they say, "There's no plane." You're waiting for the day, or back when our tourists are coming back, and once again, there's no plane, the charter. And people are thrown out of the hotel, waiting for days, no one is feeding them, no one is serving them, let's say. What's more, we know when they're driving our people out of the hotels. What's more, there are many examples where tourist companies simply, sorry, "inflate" our people, take money for one service, and provide completely different services, or let's just say they didn't tell people. So, of course, I don't know if it's meant to be. May I be answered by Inna Ivanovna, as provided in this law, or by cosmetics? And you have to look at the tourist companies that have in the house, there's a computer in the apartment, and they're sitting right at the table, and they're running a bunch of, you know, tourists who don't know, they can't find the extreme: who sent them, who accepts them? I think everyone knows, I say, I've even felt an interesting situation in myself once. It was decided that after a diplomatic passport in Egypt, a visa was to be taken in Kiev, but no one even notified me as a deputy. I flew there, and I flew from the gate to the gate, and I flew back to Kiev, and I took a visa, and I flew back. But six months later, could it not have been possible for these tourist companies to tell people that today those who fly diplomatic passports would have a visa in Ukraine? And a lot of other inadequacies, so I think that this law needs to be adopted or changed here, but in the complex, we need to consider that the citizens of Ukraine who are going abroad to rest or to travel should be heavily protected both by the state and by the responsibility of those tourism firms that provide services, in particular, once again, I emphasize that people are starving, waiting for planes, no one accepts them, no attention given. The law has to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u95	Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u96	Vladimir Karpuk. There is no doubt that these amendments to the Tourism Act should be adopted. Yet, if you look at the information forces that are, in practice, daily about the plight of tourists, how many accidents and deaths are taking place, and the quality of which is provided with the same medical care, food poisoning, inequity, and so forth, of course. Amendments to legislation are needed. This law amends the fourth chapter of the Tourism Act, in particular Article 19 of the Act. And the voucher is excluded as a form of contract with the tour operator and the customer of tourist services. The fairly well - defined conditions of information to be provided by the tour operator to the tourist service customer, along with the responsibilities of the tour operator, the properness of what he carries under the Civil Code, require further work, in our view. Thus, the law can be adopted as a basis for first reading. Yes, Kirilenko is passing Tomenko, please. There'll be a break, there will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I will immediately say that I am against taking responsibility for the key obligations of the tourist in the relationship with our tourists. And I think the exception to the voucher rule is a hasty one. Or it should be written in a contract, because today's voucher is the only document that a tour agent is obliged to pay to the hotel owner for services, thus guaranteeing a restable person who will be accommodated at the hotel, and this is provided for by this voucher. If we take off our voucher and extend it to European standards, so-called service contracts, then it should be assumed that a person receives a document that guarantees the peaceful settlement of him in the hotel and the problems that arise there. Now there's a second problem. The European standards that we join in part here are right, but obviously they should be extrapolated to the real situation in the activities of our tour operators. I don't think it's important for the tourist to have a rule in the law that the tour operator should give our tourists a description of the customs of the local population, which are the monuments there, and they will look online and read the customs of the local population. We need to spell out other things clearly. In particular, a clear route, a place of travel, responsibility. What Deputy Stoyan said when conditions change, whom to turn to, and who is responsible. So, I don't think there's a general description of life, of the country's activities, of the administrative stuff in the area of responsibility, so that the tourist knows clearly if there's any history of flight, hotel, nutrition, everyone else, he knows who to turn to, he knows who to get advice from, and he needs to know who's responsible for it. So I would think that we should work actively on the second reading, because there are plenty of comments that have been made, and we need to settle them for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u98	Please, after a minute of factions that aren't logged in. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You can't vote for this bill even in the first reading. First of all, the substance of the bill doesn't match the name. Second, information. This is what a bill is called, and in fact it can only be given at the request of a person who goes to a country or a country. Thirdly, there is no information on the financial situation of the tourist or tour operator. Here's the thing: a man has gone abroad, no tourist services have been provided, he's coming home, but he's claiming to present himself to no one, because this one-day tournament has ceased to exist. And the voucher is very serious, because it's a contract between a tour operator and a tourist and between a hotel to provide services. Please, we're canceling the tourist responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u100	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u101	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party This bill needs to be voted on, and I want to say right away why. Because the tougher the requirements for tourists and tour operators are, the better. First. One second. If the information is not written enough, it is in the second reading that a respected colleague of Samuel said that this would be a complete set of information provided to the tourist. Because in relationships, the tour operator and the consumer are the consumer. And if the bill is directed and we strengthen it for increasing the responsibility of the tour operator, according to greater consumer guarantees, it's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. I'm voting for adoption as the basis for the first reading of Bill 7097. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act. [[on information to the consumer of tourism services]] [[12:11:56]] For 266 Decision taken. A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 42 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we will continue our morning session. Bill No. 7183 is under consideration, the draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on guarantees and compensation for service shipments]] He reports: Minister of Labour and Social Policy Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please vote. [[12:43:33]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Law amending article 121 of the Labour Code, designed to settle the issue of payment for the work of personnel assigned to the ship. I'd like to tell you that Minprac is constantly approached by different businesses and institutions that ask us to go to a meeting and change one norm, and it's stipulated in the law. The point of the problem is that today, the person who is going on a mission is keeping the average wage behind it while he's on a business trip that comes from a salary that's been paid for the last two months. There are problems of one’s own, sometimes not getting two months’ work, and while one is away, his colleagues receive a bonus in doing the same. That's why we're proposing, and it's stipulated in the law that at the time of deployment, a person had the right to receive a salary that couldn't be lower than the average wage of the previous two months. So today it's clearly stated in the law: the average wage in the last two months, we write in the law "no less". So, if there's a possibility, you can pay a person more than the average wage for two months ago. All of it. Nothing else: no changes, no additions, no exceptions, and everything else, including part of what's said in language, that it doesn't seem to take into account the time when a person is in a discharge, it doesn't fit the reality. For the last paragraph of active article 121 is broken down into two parts. The first ingredient tells us what is stored there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u105	Finish up, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u106	At the time of departure, a job is kept and will be paid no less than the average wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u107	Yes, please, Marouszenko Vladimir Stanislavovic, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Social Policy and Work Committee at its meeting on 3 November considered the bill. The bill provides for the completion of article 121 of the Labour Code, according to which employees assigned to the service are to be paid for the work performed in accordance with the terms of the employment contract or collective agreement, but not less than the average wage. It is also suggested that the requirement to keep the average wage for posted workers be excluded from part three of this article. The committee supports the legislative initiative to settle the issue of pay for employees who are assigned to avoid lowering their earnings throughout the mission. Since the practice of calculating the average wage for the frequent deployment of employees is evidence of a deterioration in the level of pay for this category of workers. At the same time, the committee notes that applying the changes proposed by the government in such a practice may lead to a deterioration in the conditions of pay for employees on board, since the content of the legislative proposal provides that employees who are assigned to the service should be paid only for work performed and not for all working days of shipping, as provided for by valid legislation, including the days of travel of the worker to and from the place of destination, when he is not able to work for objective reasons in accordance with the conditions laid down in the labour or collective agreement. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine comments on the project to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Ministry of Justice supports the project, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the National Tripartite Social Council with the President has no comments, the joint representative body of the national employers agrees with the bill without any comments. Counting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u110	In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u111	Thank you. Please sign up. Zarabinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u112	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Oleg Zarubinsky, People's Party. I realized that there was some misunderstanding, or counter-version, about the question of work done. I understand so much that "work done," and I think the government representative has to confirm that, that's when the person is in a deployment. Because if he is, let's say, the first and last day on the road, without this road, obviously no work can be done. Therefore, it is necessary to say clearly, and perhaps in preparing for the second reading, that this does not apply to the day of departure and the day of arrival. Because once again, I want to point out that he can't do the job without spending some time on the trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u113	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, why I asked for words, because at the committee meeting this is the aspect that was discussed by Zarubinsky's colleague was at the heart of our attention and we discussed the situation in detail. The fact is that there are many industrial enterprises in Ukraine today, and thanks to God that they have been preserved, a machine - building complex, for example, an airplane building. The people there are the whole units of the maintenance repair department, which are in a traveling nature, their profession. And you know what could happen when he was there at the factory, doing this job, doing a certain amount of work, getting paid. He can't seem to get it because he was on a mission. That's why it's so rare when a government bill is about to protect people, work. And it's written this way that it can't be lower than the average wage, the size of that pay. I think that's exactly the kind of social protection that we need to understand and support. Because it's stupid, as it used to be in the Soviet Union, and it's 2,60, or how much it's today, it doesn't cover in any way today. So doing it in line with today's reality, this bill is a problem for people who are going to be on a mission, I think. I'm sure he'll be very supportive. But in order to finally remove this problem for the work that we've earned, I think we can write this rule more clearly before the second reading, so that we can understand the transparent action of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u115	It's not about shipping. Odarchenko tells Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u116	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of the "Fathership". Respectable fellow countrymen, respected colleagues, seeming to be good intentions, but at the same time, if you look at the observations of our lawyers at the Supreme Council of Scientific and Experimental Administration, it turns out that this bill of government of Azarov narrows down social guarantees and the rights of hired employees in the service missions. Because, according to the law, the average wage is paid all the time, including the time of the employee’s travel to and from the city of destination. At the same time, the government bill guarantees the employee’s pay for the assignment is foreseen, I emphasize, only for the work done. That is, without taking into account the time of travel, the day of arrival, the day of departure. And at the same time, I would like to point out that the wording of the bill does not make it clear that it is the average earnings of this worker who is on deployment, not, for example, the average earnings in the field, etc. Therefore, in view of the fact that these standards may lead to a deterioration in the pay conditions of the employees in the deployment, our “BUT-“Fatherhood” faction does not see the possibility of supporting it and suggests that it should be rejected as one that narrows the social rights of workers. And what's more, there are certain doubts, and the serious comments of our scientific expertise on this. So let's subtract now. Let the government work on this not to be another bill in a number of those bills that are an attack on the social rights and guarantees of our workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u117	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, one of you who carefully read the bill may have concluded that he is worse than active. It's clear on what's going on. For those on board, his average earnings remain. And it says here that he can't make any money if he goes on a trip. But let us accept it in the first reading and correct it in the second. I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 7183 on amending article 121 of the Code. [[on the guarantee of compensation on mission]] [[12:54:40]] For 229 Copy that. But once again, I would like you to ask a professional committee, honourable colleagues, to take a very careful look at the preparations for his second reading. The factions, please. 164 - Party of Regions, BUT – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 12, Communists – 26, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 7. A draft Ukrainian Air Code is under consideration. [[Registration number 7144]] Yeah, let's see how much. No, there are more than a hundred articles, we cannot deal with them in a simplified way. Please Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Anatoly Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s Code of Air in Action was adopted in 1993. Since the adoption of the Air Code, aviation standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization have changed significantly, and the requirements for European Union aviation standards have increased considerably. [[ICAO]] Three ICAO aviation audits in Ukraine in 200, 2003 and 2008 made comments on the current Air Code on improving flight safety and on extending the regulatory function of aviation authorities in Ukraine. The new edition of the Air Code contains requirements to increase the liability of the air carrier to passengers, the introduction of the Institute of State Inspectors for Air Safety, the introduction of a system of fines for legal and natural persons for violations of aviation legislation, the establishment of a National Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Events, the regulation of general purpose aviation, the regulation of airport and airport activities. The bill takes into account the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization, the European Civil Aviation Conference and the European Organisation for the Safety of European Air Navigation, as well as changes in Ukrainian legislation. The adoption of the Ukrainian Air Code in the new edition will have a positive impact on the level of aviation safety, will enable the needs of the people and the population in operational transport to be met, and will ensure the competitiveness of civil aviation companies in the internal and international aviation markets. I propose to support Ukraine’s draft Air Code in its first reading and to assign it to a profile committee to work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u119	Thank you. Is there a question? None. All right, have a seat, please. She reports to the head of the Transport and Liaison Committee of Shejanov Boris Anatoliyovich. Does it look like he's written two or three codes already? Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dearly beloved! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications reviewed the draft Air Code, No. 7144 of 20.09.10, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a substitute for the MP code, which we have placed three times before, read from this rostrum. The bill has been introduced with the aim of harmonising the legislative field that regulates the activities of Ukrainian civil aviation under the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization of United Aviation. Europe, the European Civil Aviation Conference, the European Aeronautics Security Organization, as well as changes in Ukrainian legislation since the introduction of the 1993 Ukrainian Air Code. The committee agrees with the need to improve the legislative regulation of civil aviation, including harmonization with the norms of world and European law governing civil aviation. The Committee of the Rules, MPs and the Supreme Council of Ukraine also believes that the bill has been tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. At the same time, due to the fact that some of its rules will have an impact on the spending of the public budget and local budgets, financial and economic justification, the calculation of the costs and the proposals to cover these costs is needed. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster in its decision insists that the name of Article 78 “Airports, Airports”, Articles 11 “Lands of Transport”, Articles 33 and 72 be added. In conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that the first reading of the draft bill could be adopted and based on comments and suggestions. At our committee meeting, it was noted that some of the provisions of the bill should be further developed in accordance with the norms of world and European law in the field of civil aviation. This is primarily the case with the introduction of appropriate amendments to the draft standards for passenger service classes, for business, premium and economy passengers, both on international and domestic flights; the establishment of the legislative responsibility of the air carrier for damage to passengers, on internal flights in accordance with European standards, standards; the introduction of appropriate amendments to the aviation rules for the introduction of the only criteria for the quality of passenger service, the protection of their rights and the responsibility of air carriers, both for international and internal transport. I would like to point out that from the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, this is the fourth edition of the draft Air Codex, which takes into account more of the comments and suggestions that have been made in previous editions of the draft Air Code. As a result of the first reading, the committee decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Air Code as a basis. [[Registration number 7144]] Proposals and comments already received or to be made within the time limit defined in article 116 of the Rules will be processed in preparation for consideration in the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to finalize the code in two weeks and prepare it for second reading in order to adopt the New Year's Air Code. Thank you for your attention. Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u121	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Sit down, then. Please sign up for the factions. People's deputies, please, who wants to. Yes, everything is so clear that we put it to the vote. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 7144, namely the draft Ukrainian Air Code. Please vote. [[13:02:50]] For 251 The bill was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, today with an official visit to Ukraine, the delegation of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is headed by the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Bogdan Borisevich, who is now present among us. Please welcome our colleagues. Greetings, dear fellows. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u123	Please consider Bill No. 7051, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on financial monitoring of the activities of professional participants in the stock market]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:04:09]] For-187 Decision taken. Please, a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich. Get ready for Piglet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! For your consideration, there is a bill that is designed to implement measures to prevent and combat the legalization and laundering of proceeds obtained by crime, the financing of terrorism. The purpose of the drafting of the bill is to regulate the establishment of requirements for the branch of separate branches of professional members of the stock market who work abroad, who are required to comply with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation relating to financial monitoring. In addition, questions raised in legislation and settled issues arise when there are differences between the laws of Ukraine and the laws of the countries where the respective departments are located. Issues related to the introduction of standards that are in line with global practice are further settled, and those who have unliquidated and unrepentant crimes in the financial and service sphere are not entitled to a significant amount of ownership. a share in the statutory capital of professional participants in the stock market, which should reduce the issue of criminalisation of the relevant area of financial services. We ask you to support us in our first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u125	Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Igor Mikolayovich Prasolov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This bill was considered by our committee on 20 October this year. The project proposes the following, in fact. First, introduce additional requirements for financial monitoring of the activities of professional participants in the stock market. Secondly, to prevent persons with unliquidated and undisclosed criminality for financial and performance offences from having a significant share in the statutory funds of professional participants in the stock market. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the law be adopted as a basis for further consideration of some comments. They concern the following. It is appropriate to supplement the provisions that reinforce the requirements for financiers organizations by all market participants. Second, the need to harmonize the draft Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences. In view of the above, the Committee suggests recommending that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u127	Have a seat, please. Yes. Who else wants to speak except for Arjevetin, who protects the financial system and the bank? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u128	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am actually going to support this bill in the first reading, although, on a large scale, neither from the Explanatory Note nor from the reports that have now been made, I personally have not felt the social need, for example, for whom we will regulate, how much the market requires such regulation as the need to open branches abroad, that is, there was no such explanation. It's like a bill for some other law on financiers. I thought it was obvious to all of you that Ukraine's stock market today, our internal stock market, is very underdeveloped. And the question is, Which branch offices are going to go beyond our country, for what purpose or other purpose. Next. I guess we've heard from a lot of officials that it's because of stock market tools, that's because of securities, that's what happens, through shares, more faithfully, that there's an outflow of capital abroad. It's very easy to use this tool to, you know, give someone a good gift. Perhaps you understand what this is about. So if we have to open our offices and branch offices abroad for this purpose, I think it may be inappropriate. But, in large numbers, by supporting it in the first reading, I think it would be a good opportunity for the second reading to extend this rule: regarding the operation of financial monitoring, not only, in fact, the branches outside our country, but probably all the participants in the stock market. That's right. We have a lot of people in our country who, well, they don't have any morals, I don't say, another right to own big businesses. This is also the right norm. I think it's a good opportunity for a second reading to consider the issue of the cancellation procedure and so forth. So on the first reading, it's like nothing is important, and on the second reading, I think we're going to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u129	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption on the basis of Bill 7051: amending the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act. Please vote. [[13:10:13]] For 206 The decision is not supported. There's an offer: send the bill for re-reading. Please vote. [[13:10:44]] For 244 The bill is directed at re-reading the first reading. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting is under consideration. [[on the improvement of the protection of certain species of animals introduced into the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wildlife and Wildlife and Natural Environments in Europe]] Registration number 4628. There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:11:32]] For 207 Decision taken. Please, the author of the Blue Alexander Volodymyrovich initiative. Yes, from the Committee is the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Glasunov Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u130	The President-in-Office, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting. The draft Ukrainian Law is designed to bring about compliance with the requirements of the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wildlife and Wildlife and Natural Environments in Europe with certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting, namely in article 16 to introduce scientific grounds for limits and standards for the use of hunting resources. Article 19 provides for exclusive hunting for wild birds to be excluded from the two conventions listed and suggests setting a time limit for hunting wolves. Article 33 proposes to exclude 40 from the list of harmful animals, the peacock, and the soybean. The Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine believes that the term “scientificly-based limits” is being applied today and that the proposed additions to article 16 are not appropriate because these issues are already regulated by legislation. The National Forestry Committee of Ukraine notes that measures to regulate the number of wolves and foxes require considerable material and labour costs, so it is not advisable to abandon the system of encouraging hunters, which is provided for by valid legislation. In line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill can be adopted as a basis. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u131	Thank you, sit down. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? None. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting, registration number 4628, please vote. [[13:14:12]] For 239. Decision taken. The Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, registration number 5303, is under consideration. [[on increasing responsibility for illicit mining]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:14:47]] For-187 Decision taken. Please, Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, prepare for the committee of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u132	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Bill No. 5303 provides for the improvement of Ukraine’s legislation regulating the use and development of beneficial fossils, proposing a more severe systemic responsibility for violations of the natural environment and human health. Donbas territory is a very useful mine, which is a raw material for a fuel-energy complex, a building industry, meets the needs of water supply and so on. The use of the drama is based on the permission of the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine. The difficulty of obtaining special permits for use in the economic crisis and reducing jobs in the area has led to the distribution in the area of illegal mining, primarily coal and raw materials for building materials. The production is done in both a craftsman’s way and a special technique that leads to land violations. The Luhansk district administration is constantly struggling with the production of fossils of its own free will. In 2005, a special inter-ministerial working group was set up to control the mining of beneficial fossils and the development of waste from coal enterprises under the management, which revealed the imperfections of the legislative base to effectively combat illegal mining. Therefore, all levels of the Luhansk region were supported by the bill. In order to improve legislation, the bill proposes to amend and supplement part six.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u133	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u134	Ukraine’s Code of Inventory on the Right of District Councils to Issue Special Permits for the Development of Beneficiary Fossils of Local Value, article 240 of the Criminal Code on the Strengthening of Criminal Responsibility for Illegal Mining and Article 47 of the Code of Administrative Violations on the Strengthening of Administrative Responsibility. Please support in the first reading. In preparing for the second reading, we'll take into account the maximum recommendation of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u135	Thank you, too. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, please, from the committee, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u136	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill proposes amendments to two codes: the Criminal Code and the Code on Administrative Offences, as well as the Law on Nadra. A major change to the Pro Nadra Act is proposed to allow the use of nadra to be granted not only by a specially authorized central authority, but also by district councils, which should simplify the procedure for obtaining such permits. As far as the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Offences are concerned, the drafters of the bill, our colleagues Lundick, Ephraim, Tikhov, Illashov, propose to strengthen both criminal and administrative responsibility. The main scientific and expert office indicates that where it is called the “district councils”, the Supreme Council of Crimea, the Council of Kiev and Sevastopol has been missed, the committee believes that this can be corrected on second reading. As for the purpose of increasing criminal responsibility, this is the right of the Hall to determine, so unlike the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Legislative Protection recommends the adoption of a bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u137	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national deputies. Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of the Party of Regions, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! I am primarily addressing the Ukrainian national deputies who represent the Lvivsk, Ivano-Frankivsky and Ternopil region in this room. Keep in mind that this is one of the most effective and real sources of filling the local budget. What's going on now? You can't get permission even if you've got an investor involved in the development of limestone, then you can't do that in order to make hypocardiograms, because you have to agree in Kiev, a whole long chain like this. Today, the bill gives district councils the right to give special permits for the development of crops, useful fossils of local importance. Dear colleagues, remember, this is a lot of stone, a sandstone, which is used every year in equipment work, a permit for its development, you also have to go to Kiev and take a lot of arguments. Today we have the opportunity to obtain such permission from one side and, on the other hand, the author of the legislative initiative will increase criminal and administrative responsibility for the illegal extraction of useful fossils of local importance. Therefore, I believe that these Ukrainian national deputies who understand what is forming into the local budget and who are counting down the Labour Fund, and where land payments are going, should, in turn, be obliged to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u139	Eugene Kirilchuk. Faction "BUT" – "Paternity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u140	Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fatherhood". I want to say that we're going to support this bill, but I'm surprised that in the last year, the miners' salary has dropped by a thousand dollars compared to last year. In the Donetsk region, where this unauthorized coal mining takes place, their prosecutor's office, their administration, their courts, their militia, and the need to strengthen the regime on these issues. But if you're there, in the end, you'll make the order. And don't point to Volin or to Lviv, they've already issued a heating code for people, and you have a mother crying in the Donetsk region. Childhood families. The standard of disability has not yet been obtained. And the authorities promise: maybe by the new year. What's going on in there? We're going to support all of this, but the authorities are all yours, you're going to give order and you're not going to point the other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u141	Yes, the honourable national deputies, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate for subjects to be returned to the right of legislative initiative to work. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on increasing responsibility for illicit mining]] [[Registration number 5303]] [[13:23:54]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The proposal is to send the bill for re-reading. I'll put her to the vote. [[13:24:20]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you consider the draft of the Higher Education Loan Act. [[Registration number 1084]] It is said that there is a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[13:25:00]] For 204 Decision taken. The reporter and co-rapporteur is the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Samuelka Katerina Seminowna. So four minutes. It says here, that's what I read. Please give it to the author, please, Yuri Karakaya. I, the secretariat, pay attention to why you're wrong. And Catherine Samuel will be the co-reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! This law was written in 2007 and envisions the introduction into the country of state-owned credit for higher education. You know, today's average school price is probably 7-8 to 15,000 dollars per year. Accordingly, any Ukrainian family can't afford to learn at their own expense if the child doesn't go to budget. The solution to this problem, namely, the debt lending, when the commercial scheme is used to lend agriculture, when the commercial bank is lending credit, and the state is just half of the lending rate is paying off at the expense of its own funds. It's not that big of a cost, because the state is spending money not on the body of the loan, it's actually on the return of the interest, half of the loan. A request for support. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u143	Thank you! Catherine Seminalic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u144	Just two minutes! The bill in question does not mean that we are in no way in favour of the total spread of paid education, but there are a lot of appeals from parents who have no job to pay for their children's education, and they ask for legislation to be settled and given the opportunity to take credit for higher education. I think there's no secret to anyone that today's education depends on where the higher education facility is, it costs several thousand dollars. Of course, at an average salary of 2,107, it is virtually impossible to solve this. You and I have an experience of lending higher education. It was us and our faction that initiated changes to the Ukrainian Law, the basic law on young people. And that's where we predicted this direction of work. But unfortunately, it doesn't work. And so we understand that a special law is needed to create the necessary conditions for parents to be able to take long-term loans to pay for education in higher education institutions. I think it'll create, not I think, but I'm sure it'll create conditions for higher education to be available, first of all, and not just higher education, but quality education. To achieve higher education, it was not just the privileges of those who lived richly. And so I'm literally addressing all the factions, and I'm asking you to support a long-suffering, three-year-old bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Yes. Yes, please show me the names of the national MPs. National deputy of Kzarykov, faction. No, the Kings, I'm sorry, Alexander the Kings, the faction of the Party of the Regions, is refusing to speak. Davemuk Stepan. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u146	Stepan Dávimuk, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" – "The Fatherland". In Ukraine, there is an increasing level of pay for education. And I think that all those who want to open up all possible mechanisms for education in this way, all the more so with the very widespread lending mechanism in the world. So our faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, who has been insisting on the performance since the faction? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. I'm betting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Higher Education Loan Act. Registration number 1084. [[13:30:59]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 15, “BUT-"Paternity" – 20, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 3, Communists – 26, People's Party – 1, non-fractional – 6. I'm going to put a motion to the vote, but I'm going to re-read it. But together with just putting aside a question that we don't want to consider, because the Chief Science and Technology Administration is offering to work out, it would be more logical for us to go to work. That would have made sense. I'm voting on a proposal to recast the bill, i.e. the drafters. [[Registration number 1084]] [[13:32:11]] For 256 Decision taken. Honourable National MPs, I am introducing a draft Law on Recognition in such a way that they have lost their validity, some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on Ukraine's original legislative acts that are not actually in force but have not ceased to be valid under the established law]] Rapporteur of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bondik. Coroner, head of the Zabarski Vladislav Committee on Legal Policy I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:32:58]] For 196 Decision taken. The author, please. Is there no author? I then ask the co-rapporteur Vladislav Valeriyovich. Please, Zabarsky, head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On 10 March 2010, the Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Recognition of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on Ukraine's original legislative acts, which are not actually in force but which have not ceased to be valid under the established law]] The bill proposes to recognize that Ukraine's laws, Ukrainian RSR laws, Cabinet decrees of Ukraine, and only 121 legislations that are not actually in force and are not relevant. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, at the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, some committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are proposing to return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Some committees of the Supreme Council suggest that it be rejected. Low notes to the bill were made: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. While supporting a legislative initiative aimed at systematizing and codifying domestic legislation in general, the Committee considers that the bill does not provide for a comprehensive and systematic approach to the problem of inventorying legislation with the involvement of a wide range of competent authorities and scientific institutions. In addition, the bill provides for considerable expenditure from the budget for the implementation of some of its provisions. Therefore, according to the committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being proposed as a result of its consideration of the draft bill, which requires the first reading to restore its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u149	Dear National Deputies! Who insists on discussing the matter? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Taras Blackwall, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u150	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! In principle, the practice of abolishing ineffective dead legislative acts is good and necessary. And we need to put the legislation in order. But there are very serious problems in this project. I speak only of our problem with the Committee in foreign matters. The bill proposes to repeal a number of laws on the ratification of international agreements that have been adopted with other countries that are largely active and working today. There is a very specific system for denunciation of international treaties. Just by repealing the laws we ratify, we violate dozens of principles of international law. And so I would ask that, once this bill has been finalized, when it comes back to the Supreme Council, the author deletes these very points that directly conflict with the Constitution and apply to international treaties. And so he worked on different directions accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u151	Dear National Deputies! Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Please don't polish, take this bill. I don't want to criticize the authors. Because it's practically every faction he's ever been waved by. But to take the bill so seriously does not honor the people’s deputies. We've been revoking all of the government budget laws since 1991. Second, third, tenth, fifth, eighth, and so forth. Who is itching, and to whom do they interfere?Oh, my God! These laws are no longer in force because they are fulfilled, they are done. It says: “Recognizable that the USSR Law on Restoration of the Crimea Autonomous Republic and so on has become effective, and that is why it will rise. So, honorary colleagues, when you write, especially when you sign, read what you sign. I urge you not to give any votes for a worthless, no-one needs a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has made a negative decision. The main scientific expertise in this bill has also reached a negative conclusion. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first proposal to adopt the draft law registration number 5447. [[13:38:26]] For the The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'd better tell you by name. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the Subsequentity of Individual Cases is being submitted for consideration. [[Registration number 4636]] The rapporteur is a member of the Justice Committee, Vladimir Filipenko. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[13:39:19]] For-188. Decision taken. As a matter of fact, there is a need for counseling among the nation’s honourable deputies. We could continue our sessions by, say, 2:30 p.m., to consider the issues that are scheduled for today, which are few, and then to devote time to committee work. So I'm betting on the vote so that we can now continue the morning session until the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for today, and the evening session is not to be held, dedicated to committee work. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:40:14]] For 287 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Vladimir Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the traceability of individual cases is proposed. [[Registration number 4636]] The need to adopt this bill is due to the following circumstances. On June 5, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the introduction of an automated system in administrative courts, which, inter alia, amended the Criminal Code in part of the addition of the Code by article 376, which provides for criminal responsibility for illegal interference in the work of an automated court documentation system. At the same time, the adoption of this law did not provide for an organ that would be subject to such a category of criminal cases. In this connection, Bill 4636, submitted to the Supreme Council, proposes to amend article 112 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure and to provide that crimes involving illegal interference with the work of an automated court documentation system are the subject of the prosecution’s jurisdiction. Thus, the adoption of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code on the Succession of Individual Cases will help to remove the identified gap and ensure the implementation of the provisions of article 376 with the symbol 1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. As the author, please support this bill. I would also like to announce that I have been instructed to announce the decision of the committee on this matter. The Committee generally agrees with the authors on the validity and relevance of the bill, while noting that individual positions need clarification. In particular, the Final Positions of the Bill states that the law takes effect at the same time as the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Implementation of an Automated Documentary System in Administrative Courts. However, according to the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the introduction of an automated documentary system, Ukraine has already taken effect since 1 January 2010 in accordance with its “Final Regulations”, so the “Final Positions” of the Bill need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u155	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u156	Thank you. Having considered the bill submitted, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code on the Subsequentity of Individual Cases, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Portnov and Philippenk, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted on the basis and generally as a law under the conditions for the presentation of the “Conclusion Regulations” as follows: “This law takes effect from the date of its publication”. [[Registration number 4636]] Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to express your opinion, your assessment of the proposed bill. Please sign up for this. Show me the names of the national MPs, please. It's clear to everyone. Dear colleagues, then. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the clarification that the "Ending Positions" are. In a position to establish that “this law takes effect from the day it is published,” everything else is excluded. Is there no objection? With this proposal in mind, I am voting on the decision of the committee on adoption as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the Subsequentity of Individual Cases. Please vote. [[13:44:32]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Then I put to the vote the proposal to adopt the draft law as a basis. Please be sure. [[13:44:58]] For-30 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Yes, dear colleagues, I'm announcing a draft of the General Product Safety Act. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:45:54]] For-195 Decision taken. Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, the committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on General Product Safety, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Carmazin. The purpose of the bill is to ensure the safety of products imported into the internal market and to increase the responsibility for placing dangerous products on the market. The bill lays down general requirements for the safety of any product placed on the market, the rights and duties of the operators, the responsibility of the operators for the placing in circulation, placing on the market, implementation and circulation of dangerous products. During the discussion of the bill by Ukrainian national deputies, it was pointed out that there was a need to accelerate Ukraine’s integration processes into the world economy and to adopt legislation that would improve the functioning of the internal market. Therefore, the Committee is currently working on a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Traffic in Ukraine of Dangerous Products, submitted by the President of Ukraine, whose aim is to establish legal and organizational rules for ensuring the introduction of safe products into Ukraine. In view of the foregoing, the members of the committee decided on a draft Ukrainian Law on General Product Safety, submitted by National Deputy Carmazin, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose that the Supreme Council reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on discussing this matter, please sign up. Well, if they don't insist, they won't register. May I have the names of the people's deputies show you, "for" is zero. The committee's conclusion, the committee suggests that we reject. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft General Product Safety Act. [[13:48:29]] For two. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Liability for Impaired Produce, registration number 3422. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:49:02]] For 185 Decision taken. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u160	The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Responsibility for Improper Production, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Karmazin. The purpose of the bill is to determine the legal principles of public policy regarding the liability of producers of defective products for damage caused by this consumer product in its use as intended. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on Responsibility for Impaired Productions is to be rejected. During the discussion of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee were reminded that the issue of the producer's liability for damage caused by defective production was regulated by the Ukrainian Civil Code, the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act and other Ukrainian legislation. Therefore, in view of the absence of a subject of legal regulation, the members of the committee decided to submit the draft Law on Responsibility for Improper Production, registration number 3422, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose to the Supreme Council that it be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u161	Dear colleagues who would like to make a statement on this subject, please sign in. Of course it's all there is. Dear colleagues, the committee's conclusion has been given to you, i.e. to reject the bill, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also believes that the bill should be rejected. I'm betting on a motion for adoption based on the draft Law on Responsibility for Improper Production, registration number 3422. [[13:51:33]] For 1 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7321, is being announced for consideration. [[providing access to public information]] There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[13:52:09]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The rapporteur is National Deputy Landik, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andry Shevchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u162	A respected presidency, respected friends! This bill, it's been worn out by all of us for several years. Therefore, in order for both to be adopted, and both to be taken into account, all the provisions in both bills, a working group was set up for us, including representatives and the public, and the people's deputies. And we have already completed this working group a full bill in which the initiator, Shevchenko Andrey, is initiating, and we are now finishing our 7321. And we would like to see it now as a basis. And then, when we move on to the second bill, let's all go to the gram. We have been taught and united in this Chamber by the views and opposition and the authorities so that we do not have complaints from outside or abroad that the Law on Access to Public Information should be adopted in this Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u163	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Shevchenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm that we actually have a fourth-week negotiating group that includes representatives of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, the Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and representatives of civil and journalistic organizations. From the MPs, he works in this negotiating group, including Yuri Miroshnichenko and Helen Bondarenko. It's a form we're about to take. That the Supreme Council will be proposed to adopt two new laws, namely, two new laws, which are laid down by two new laws. This is the Law on Access to Public Information and a new edition of the Information Law. As far as the bill you're looking at is concerned. We know that in Ukraine there is an active version of the Information Act, which was adopted back in 1992, which really requires a serious correction. As I work on this bill in the future, I think we can do everything we can to get two laws working at the same time: and access to public information. and a new edition of the Information Act. At the same time, there are some precautions to the text that is now being put to the vote. Two of them, most often called. First. The bill is imperfect, in our view, to define the concept of “incredible information”. In today’s form, it may mean additional court claims against journalists. The bill also restores to the authorities the right to compensation for moral damage. In our legislation since 2003, the authorities have not been able to claim compensation for moral damage, only natural persons. We think there's every possibility of removing these things when we're working on the bill, and we've already started working on this bill. And on behalf of the committee, I ask you to support Bill 7321 on the basis of which I propose that you also authorize the Committee on Freedom of Speech to work on it until the second reading by a reduced procedure. We'll be ready to bring him into the hall for the next session week. I call for support on the basis of this bill, this is our important step towards a law on access to public information. Today we are voting 7321, and in two weeks we will be able to make both bills by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u165	Thank you. Please write down who wants to share in the discussion. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u166	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to continue to highlight the position that we have heard from the author's team of this law, and I want to say that there are representatives and factions of the Party of Regions among the authors, and the factions of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," that is, both the opposition and the coalition. And at the same time, I stress that this bill is an addition to that bill, which has acquired an extremely large resonance in Ukrainian society and relates to access to public information. I want to say that, although there are certain assumptions that these two bills duplicate each other, this is not entirely true, especially in the context of the work that is being done and the participants in the public movement to promote access to public information, and I want to stress in particular, under special and personal attention, the control of the President of Ukraine, who has actually expressed the initiative to create a working group so that the disagreements in the text are still being worked out. And now we have two complementary bills, one -- access to public information that we've already adopted in the first reading. And this is the second bill, which we now have a chance to adopt as a basis and under a reduced procedure to consider in the next plenary week these two bills that regulate the sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u168	which regulate the area of access to public information. Thank you for your attention. I support the bill, and I ask to vote without taking part in the coalition and opposition, because it is an interested Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u169	Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, this bill refers to the legislative documents that are ahead of the noise, the gamma, the discussion, and then they appear themselves. It's just a bill. You know, in society, especially in the media environment, there's been a long-standing debate about the situation in Ukraine with the freedom of speech that the Council of Europe has been talking about, and that's what our journalists are talking about. Because of this, it seems to me that the very situation, the very life of Ukraine, is pushing us today to resolve this issue in the legislative order. It really happened that we have two laws, and I'm here to report to Yuri Miroshnichenko that they're not even hostile to each other, and at the same time they're not repeating each other. So there are some moments in one bill and another. Because of this, it may be wise not to discuss today, not to strain the situation, but to vote in favour of taking the best that is in the same law and in the second law and voting for them. And the observations of our Chief Legal Authority seem very precise to me, because there's an understandable apparatus very often like this with a certain gap, something there means on a journalist's level, something at the level of the legislators. That's why I think we need it, and the Yulia Timoshenko Block will vote in favour of this bill, and we don't have to delay it, but literally in this operational mode, take it out for a second reading. Thank you. I think that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u171	Please, Knyazevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! Because our factions have been actively discussing two bills, and this is natural, although without these considerations, the co-author of the bill that we are currently considering is also a representative of our faction, Yuri Stec. And so, of course, we couldn't help but wonder about his legislative initiative. Moreover, since this problem has already gained such a serious resonance, I have presented the faction to the working group, including our faction's position, which is that we will support the bill, and this one and that only if certain rules that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court are removed from it, namely, the decision of September 30, 1997. And as far as I know, last week's working group has really agreed that the things that are openly unconstitutional and violate, let's say, the constitutional order already established has been removed from the bill. There's been some compromise, and I hope we'll soon see an appropriate bill that will be drafted in terms of constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u173	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u174	It won't give you any warning. Because until that happens, we understand that this bill is either doomed to not be signed or, so on, let's say, in a constitutional order, there can be a long discussion around it. So it would be absolutely logical if we now supported this bill as a basis and waited for that bill, which, on behalf of the working group, would be compromised. And perhaps if there are no such serious points that we have to warn, we too will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u175	Thank you! Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, but I would like to convince those who were very keen to convince us that these are two, one complementary bills, I would like them to read each other's bills, and if you read them carefully, one denies the other bill. Therefore, please do not mislead us, and I think it would be best to do what the Scientific and Experimental Authority suggests to us, which says: “Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a bill of 4485 of 15 May 2009 introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenk, with the same subject of settlement, we consider it appropriate to bring them together in the process of further work, taking as a basis the Bill 7321 as one that looks more perfect.” But it's already your business, because once again, if we accept both of them and the second bill, neither of them will work, because they deny each other. And in view of what I've told you, let's vote. There is a vote on the adoption of a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation to ensure access to public information. Who? Bondarenko? We have to come to the meeting on time! Please, 7321, I beg you to vote. [[14:04:38]] For 344 The bill was passed. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again, a committee of profile, make two bills one that won't deny another, what scientific expertise recommends to you. And I think then he'll have the chance to get as many votes as he got. Next. It was an offer to shorten the procedure. Please vote on the reduction of the procedure for preparing for second reading. [[14:05:23]] For 291 A decision has been made. Draft Law 2644 on amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the rights of journalists to gather information and to keep its source secret]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'm going to vote. [[14:05:54]] For 217 A decision has been made. Please, Feldman. None. Then from the Freedom Committee, Shevchenko Andri Vitaliyovich, 2 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u176	The committee proposes to the Supreme Council to support this bill as a basis. Let me put it briefly, we believe that it increases opportunities for journalists in their work. With very important money, this bill is meant to protect sources of information for a journalist. Because we know that this is a typical, standard problem. There is one, as soon as a journalist has printed a sharp publication, he is involved either as a witness or in another quality, trying to obtain additional information through it. There are laws around the world that protect sources of information for journalists. There are other innovations, especially regarding the participation of journalists in court proceedings. The committee therefore considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be supported on a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u177	Thank you. Who wants to share in the discussion? You don't? Then we'll determine. I am merely drawing your attention to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which says that the bill is intended to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. I am betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis of Bill 2644 of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the rights of journalists to gather information and keep its throat secret]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:07:52]] Z-77 Not accepted. There is a proposal to send a draft draft of the initiative for further work. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:08:18]] For 267 We're sending a draft to the author for further work. We are considering a bill amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Information Act. [[No. 4547]] [[on the protection of information]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[2:08:51]] For 208 Copy that. Please, Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Prepare Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u178	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. This bill also refers to information, and it was actually born as a result of the references that came to me in the application of this law. There are situations where the concept of “protection of information” is interpreted differently, including in court proceedings. And in this way we need to regulate, actually, in the law, because today, in the Information Act, there is no definition of what is the protection of information that is its legal signs. And this brief bill provides for the definition of "protection of information," in what circumstances and how it should be applied. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports this bill on the basis of which it is also supported by an appropriately qualified committee. Please vote this bill on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u179	Thank you. Vladimir Ivanovich Landik from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u180	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Our committee has considered the bill. It makes a small amendment, it is essential and must be. But what we would ask you to do is to adopt this law immediately and as a basis and as a whole, because this is a very small amendment, it needs to be done. Yeah, just one definition and that'll be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u181	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Well, they spoke from the committee. The head is not comfortable when the committee's opinion has already been expressed. Dear colleagues, let us act wisely and accept this law as a law as a whole. There's only one sentence, it's perfectly logical. There will be no harm, but there will be benefits. I am voting on the adoption of the Amendments to Article 14 of the Information Act as a whole. [[Registration number 4547]] Take down the vote. Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u182	Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your word. I won't be long. I just want to say that we support the position, we're going to vote, I'm now speaking out of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, we're going to vote in favour of this bill on a basis and for a simple reason. We believe that the legislation on information really requires that it be modernized. And for us, that's three basic approaches: to maximize citizens' right to information, to guarantee privacy, and to make everything that makes power more transparent. We will vote in favour, we will support the proposal to vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u183	I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act, registration number 4547, amending article 14 of the Information Act. Please vote. [[14:12:48]] For 306 Just in case, show the factions how Shevchenk’s promise is fulfilled. Region Party - 165, "BUT – Fatherland" - 68, here are your promises. “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 8, Communists – 26, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 19. One thing is to speak well, and the other thing is to work. Yes, Bill 5164 is under consideration. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the prohibition of advertising, sponsorship and promotion of the sale of tobacco products]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:13:44]] For 215 Decision taken. Please, Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Prepare Condratuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u184	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! On March 15, 2006, you and I ratified the Framework Convention of the World Health Organization and the fight against tobacco, which, in its article 13, stipulates that each party, that is, every country that has signed this treaty in accordance with its Constitution or constitutional principles, will impose a total ban on all forms of advertising, stimulation, sales and sponsorship of tobacco products. And in this context, the copyright team, which includes very many deputies from all the factions that are present in the Supreme Council, has proposed this bill. This is no longer the first step toward reducing the number of people who use or use tobacco that harm their health, especially children who develop such harmful habits through advertising. Now, besides banning advertising, we're also banning sponsorship, banning propaganda, forbidding in any form in the videos to show and make smoking prestigious. This bill is supported by the public. More than 70 percent of the population in Ukraine are in favour of a total ban on any smoking propaganda. So I am absolutely convinced that this bill will increase the authority and trust of the Supreme Council, allow for the protection against smoking and health harm, and I think millions of our Ukrainian citizens, especially children and adolescents. Please support me as a base. We are working on a second reading so that this bill is balanced and is as consistent as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u185	Please, Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u186	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting on 28 September 2010, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Prohibition of Advertising, Sponsorship and Promotion of the Sale of Tobacco Products and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading to adopt a bill. [[Registration number 5164]] In order to reduce smoking and further enforce existing legislation in line with the WHO Framework Convention, the project proposes to introduce a total ban on tobacco advertising, a ban on sales promotion, and any form of sponsorship using cooking and services signs, i.e. actually tobacco sponsorship. It is suggested that advertising of any goods or services should not contain an image of tobacco products or the process of smoking them. The committee considers the proposed legislative initiatives to be timely and worthy of support. However, he also has a number of major shortcomings that have been highlighted by both the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the members of the Committee. One of the main disadvantages that others would bring about is the mechanical direct transfer of norms and convention provisions into national legislation. Therefore, the corresponding flaws should be corrected when preparing for the second reading. Please support the committee, the committee's position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u187	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, anyone who wants to speak, please sign in. Yes, please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I am in the clear. I won't be spending much time. The point is that here it was said that the disadvantage was that there was a transfer of convention rules into laws. Under our Constitution, ratified international agreements are part of our national legislation. In fact, they already have to work, but unfortunately our practice of applying does not allow us to have it in our lives to the full. So actually, this bill actually reinforces those norms that are already part of our national legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u189	Yes, Vasuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, of course, a very important law, and all we have to do is thank the author for his timely submission to the Supreme Council, and support him. What I'm saying is that advertising harmful habits in general is an indicator of low culture in society. How can we raise a healthy generation by promoting harmful habits, harmful drinking habits, harmful drinking habits, and smoking? Especially among young people. When I see a young girl with a big cigarette in her hand, I get scared: Who will she give birth to, how will she feed the child? I think that’s what every mother who’s worried about her children’s health thinks. And we certainly need to adopt such a law today. In general, I would like to ask a committee that knows all about freedom of speech in Ukraine -- radio, television and so on -- to put order in Ukraine with advertising at all. On television, things like that are advertised. Who have no right to be advertised. We have an extension of our advertising time, if the film is going or any other program is interesting, it can take up to 20 minutes. People, no patience is enough to watch endless commercials! And they're anti-advertising: you don't want to hear any more of it, or they're going to buy what's offered. It's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u191	Thank you. From the factions that didn't act. Which one of you is it? Chewchenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u192	The Timoshenko bloc will support this bill for a very clear reason. There are things more important than money than lobbying. Such things refer to the health of the nation. We know that the world is now on its way to restricting everything about tobacco, and we are not a barbaric country that should fall out of it. On the other hand, in support of the committee's position, I'm going to say that there are some positions in the bill that need to be worked out in the second reading. My colleague, Olena Kondratjuk, spoke of the direct transfer of positions from international agreements. There's really something to work on, a very sophisticated definition of advertising and sponsorship. We have positions that can limit any circulation of information about cigarettes, tobacco or tobacco, and even journalists won't be able to write about it. That's what we have to work with. And the last. I thank the chairman for paying attention to my promises. It's an honor for me to have Adam Martinyuk tracking them down. I advise you not to vote for the Tax Code. I advise the chairman to take the lead, to obey the Rules and to give his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u193	Turn off the microphone. Work at the Supreme Council and learn how to conduct yourself. And do what you are. You're used to just slapping, sorry, tongue. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, I repeat: when you are officially organized, you will find that there is a group of non-fractionals, then you will have the word. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, the law is now being voted by us, but not to be with this law. With the law that all of you, chiefly legislators, are in grave violation of the law that prohibits you from smoking in public and public places. Please see what you are doing in the Supreme Council, although there is a law that forbids it. This is how you feel about laws, including those who raise their hands. I put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 5164: on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the prohibition of advertising, sponsorship and promotion of the sale of tobacco products]] On the ground, please vote. [[14:23:53]] For 303 The bill was adopted as a basis. The project is under consideration. Dear colleagues, you and I have voted to work until the end. We have three bills left. We will conclude the morning session, and we will not hold the evening session. We voted in favour of almost 300 votes. Comrade Suškević is in a traffic jam somewhere, he asks to be examined later, a bill. Oh, no? Please wait. Bill number 4684 is under consideration: draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on the use in Ukraine of the work of foreigners and stateless persons]] The reporter is Hubsky. None. The committee is Dry Jaroslav, please. Dear colleagues, if there's no Suškević, we'll look at him, but he asked that he was in traffic, let's wait, nothing would change. Dear colleagues, there is an offer: To consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[14:25:13]] For-189 Decision taken. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u194	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour notes that the draft legislation duplicates the standards already defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Violations, the Labour Code and a number of other laws such as employment, the legal status of foreign and stateless persons. I would also like to point out that as early as 2009, there was a Cabinet Order 332, which approved the new order of issuance, the extension of the period of validity and the cancellation of permits for the use of the work of foreigners and stateless persons, which significantly increased the requirements for the issuance and extension of the relevant permit. The committee believes that this is the direction in which we must move in the further legislative and executive branch of power. Because it's only as a result of this decision that we're going to reduce the number of employees from 12.5 thousand to 11,000. Therefore, we warn that there is a real threat to the illegal employment of foreigners and stateless persons if such a bill is adopted. We are faced with our Ukrainian problems, where there are two problems, including roads, we still lack a third problem. The bill proposes to exclude the participation of the State Employment Service, which directly carried out all these functions, all these years. So putting functions on another government authority, for example, the author suggests translating these functions into Minpraca. We figured it's going to take a huge amount of money, because we're going to have to create a new separate government structure that will use the funds. Therefore, the committee unanimously decided at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend and amend certain legislative acts to reject. [[on the use of foreign workers in Ukraine]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u195	Yes, are there, respected colleagues willing to share in the discussion? Yes, then I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use in Ukraine of the work of foreigners and stateless persons, registration number 4684. I'd like to make a statement. Support Hubsky, support the BIT, he's yours. [[2:27:59]] For the 10th. The bill was rejected. A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of State social assistance to low-income families and disabled persons, registration number 2159, is under consideration. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:28:35]] For 196 Copy that. Please, microphone Suškevitch Valeriy Mihajlovich, get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u196	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National Deputy Suškević. Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your help. Not always are people with disabilities able to move quickly in our country. So I was a little late. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a bill developed by me and esteemed colleague Victor Vasilovich Taran foresees moments related to the strengthening of state support for low-income families with disabled children, single and low-income persons and persons living with disabilities and caring for the disabled. Dear colleagues, another key point in this bill is the support of the first group "A" with disabilities is more important than it is for the first group in general today. What are we talking about? Dear colleagues, there are disabled people with no legs, no hands, and no eyesight. This is a severe form of disability. Other severe forms of disability they still need more support than the usual version of disability and group. The bill provides for the strengthening of the points involved in the care of such persons with disabilities in the relevant laws, laws that now exist in Ukraine. Including an increase of 20 per cent in the provision of subsistence allowance for families with disabilities, as well as for children with one or both parents with disabilities in both groups. Raise by 25 per cent the level of aid to disabled persons in Group A. What I said was consistent with the heavy groups of disability. As well as other developments related to the provision of state aid to children with disabilities and to difficult groups of persons with disabilities. What I'm saying is that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council is proposing to accept it as a basis. And I want to remind you, dear colleagues, that in a day we celebrate the International Day of Disabled Persons. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u197	Thank you. Please, from the Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u198	Dear colleague Suškević outlined the substance of the bill. The committee considered it. Indeed, there are suggestions to support it. In particular, I'm going to mark such important moments. This is a 20 - percent increase in the level of subsistence allowance that is applied to families with disabilities in accordance with the law. The second point is that an increase of 15 percent of the living minimum in the assignment of families with disabilities and much more. What is the issue that raises some doubt on the committee? What does colleague Suškević and author Taran offer? They suggest that, in determining the right of the family to provide state social assistance, women and men living in one family should not be married but have children together. This includes getting help on these children. But we do know that the Family Law provides that if, say, the husband and wife are not divorced, they remain in the family, they remain in the marriage. How will it be? There's a woman he's divorced with, another woman has a man he's not divorced with, that man and this woman have come together, they haven't signed up, they've divorced, they've given birth to children, children with disabilities, and they need to be taken as total revenue. There is some legal confusion. That's why the Chief Expert Office has drawn attention to that, and our committee is paying attention to that, but I think that we can work on the second reading, considering that we really need to step up social assistance for the disabled and the third group. That's not because it's going to be such a big day, but in principle it's the position of our political power, the Party of Regions to strengthen the social protection of children with disabilities from low-income families. I'm asking on behalf of the committee and it's the committee's decision to take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u199	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Vote. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. Who? Please sign up. Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u200	Please pass the word to Ulyani Mistpane. Thank you to the head for the hammock treatment of colleagues in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u201	Go to work more often. Please, Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u202	Deputies! Faction "BUT" - "Paternity." I would like to ask everyone to vote in favour of this bill, because once it is adopted, several problems will be solved. First. This will justly be determined by the extent of social assistance to low-income families and families with disabled children. In the end, the question of paying for burial aid will be solved if the recipient of social assistance dies. And pay for social assistance in the event of punishment at places of deprivation. These are questions of life and we, as national deputies, are obliged to listen to and support the drafters of the bill. Special attention should be paid to proposals to increase the level of subsistence allowance, to allocate social assistance to low-income families with children with disabilities. That's true, although we need to move away from applying the minimum level of living. Such a concept as “the level of provision of a subsistence minimum” is unconstitutional and limits a person’s rights to a sufficient standard of living. It has long been necessary to abandon such a definition not only in this bill but also in other laws that regulate the assignment of social assistance. So once again, on December 3rd this is the International Day of Disabled Persons to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u203	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u204	I have expressed my position, but I want a more reasoned position on behalf of the faction of the Party of Regions expressed by my colleague Jaroslav Suhi, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u205	Please, Dry Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I've actually seen it in this session room before, I thought, everything and everything, but there's a bill under consideration, and there's one-stop-shop support for it. If a person insists firmly on shouting at the performance, he has the opportunity to reason on his own, separate from the session room or from the committee’s decision, an opinion. If not, it simply turns out to be "to talk" and to shed light on your position. Once again, this bill can only be adopted in the first reading. And your respectable colleague, Suškević, when he looks closely, I know that he is a social worker, we call each other, he thinks that there are things there when we, by including in the family of children, the law can deprive them of the possibility of receiving state social assistance as a low-income person for a real place to live. For example, a child learns from PTUs, colleges, or what they are now called technikums, or licenses, so this is a matter that needs to be considered. I think we're going to talk about this right now, because somehow this bill will have to be prepared for the second reading. For the second reading, we can and must take into account such things as the inadequacy or conformity of this bill in the Family Codex. I didn't call Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch, I didn't call him names, I didn't call him negative. If I have to, I'll just say one MP who's always yelling at something, it's not clear. I mean, this bill needs to be constantly and persistently worked on so that it doesn't be another draft law that won't be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u207	Yes, the discussion is over, and I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the provision of State social assistance to low-income families and persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 2159]] Please vote. [[2:37:49]] For 316 By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 170, BUT-79, Our Ukraine-Self-Defense – 7, Communists – 26, People's Party – 16, non-fractional – 18. A draft Act on Amendments to Article 57 of the Education Act on the Retirement of Pedagogical Workers is under consideration. [[Registration number 2476]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:38:33]] For-198 Please report to Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You and I have considered this bill and you have sent it by a majority for re-reading. Explaining that this very large load will be on the state budget of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has set up a working group to finalize this bill, which I want to inform you about. I would like to report that the draft law excludes rules for the establishment of teaching and teaching staff for elevated salaries, as regulated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree and other supplements for professorship and so on. We have also taken into account the observations made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the definition of mechanisms and principles for the implementation of the rules and regulations of the National Pension Insurance Act as part of the implementation of the principles of solidarity and subsidies. And in the End, we introduced phased deadlines for the introduction of the bill, namely, that from 2011 the pension has been 50 percent of the salary of teachers, and 2012 is 70 percent. 2013 is 80 percent of the salary of a pedagogical worker and plus another 1 percent for each employed after 25 years. I want to inform you, Your Honor, the Party of the Regions, I have carried out and the committee has carried out your commission, and now I have your word to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u209	Thank you, Catherine Seed! Yes, please, are there willing to share in the discussion? None. Is it? Besides Cibenko, do others not insist? Please, it's Zibank Peter's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u210	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Politicians are very often fond of September 1st, as well as the Teacher’s Day to be in school and to talk about how grateful we are to our teachers for the science that we have become who we are today. But very quickly, those good words that we speak, and they, I hope, speak frankly, we forget about them. So on behalf of the faction, let's confirm on such a day-to-day practical matters, let's support this approach. What do I mean? This bill, it's "with a huge beard", in its own time, we proposed to amend the Law on State Service, but we realized that the Law on State Service did not go through. And so the honourable colleagues to whom I am grateful went a perfectly logical and simple way and proposed a change to the Education Law, particularly Article 57. Dear colleagues, I propose on behalf of the faction that we support this document. When it's said that it has to be worked out, well, more than it's done in the process, it's impossible to do it. I point out that it is proposed to be implemented in 2012, but even after 2012, it will be gradually increased. Because today, indeed, a teacher in our society is in a position that he has never been in. So once again, let's support this document. And it's really not in words anymore, but we're actually going to demonstrate how we feel about this respectable category of our citizens. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine is proposing to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 57 of the Education Act. [[on the pension provision of pedagogical workers]] [[Bill 2476 registration number]] Please vote. [[14:43:24]] For 121 Please, by the factions. Region Party 7, BUT 72, Our Ukraine 2, Communists 26, People's Party 12, non-fractional 2. In view of the fact that we sent it again first, the bill was rejected. And the last bill, number 1017, of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. [[on compensation for savings]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:44:22]] For 172 Decision supported. Please, Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, certainly the law that deals with the return of savings or the laws that we have been considering with you for at least 15 years are of vital social importance. In April, a group of authors from Cibenko, Simonenko, and others filed such a Law amending the Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. Then the law was sent back for rereading. We created a working group, I led it, we were representatives of the Ministry of Finance, from the copyright team and the State Treasury, the National Bank. And we've developed this law, and we're going to re-read it. I'll say it's not counted. First of all, the proposal of the Ministry and the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council that it is not possible to support the proposal to impose State obligations on citizens for lost savings on the state’s internal debt is not taken into account, since this will increase the amount of government debt. Next. So we left article 4 in the same line that was in the first line. In this way, article 6 takes into account the proposals made by the drafters, it is very important that citizens be compensated in cash or cash-free form, and not just for the cost of the state budget, but for other sources defined by the laws of Ukraine. That is, if there is to be compensation for savings and it is to be done, it will be taken into account not only by the state budget but also by other sources. I will also point out that the working group has removed the standard that has been used to compensate the savings of the national bank's gold reserve. This is contrary to the Constitution, and we have removed that standard. But they left a very important rule, which I think will be supported in this room, which is that the working group did not at first support this norm, but the committee insists on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u213	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u214	It's a very important position. We believe that investors have the right to compensate for their investments, as in cash, as in cash, as well as to conduct cash-free calculations for their gas consumption, electricity, housing and utilities. This is primarily for people with disabilities in the first, second, third group, as well as the few protected species in the population. If we leave this option, then we can use deposits to actually compensate for these important positions. In general, the committee believes that this bill can be adopted on a basis and further elaborated. This will allow us even half a step further to move towards the return of savings to our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u215	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Yes. Please sign up. Cibenka, please. Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u216	Please hand over Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u217	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u218	Thank you very much, Peter Stepanovich. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I mean, I really liked your bill. That's exactly what people are expecting from us. Here are some of the choices that we have to make, and they tell us that we have to pay back our savings. And I like it because it reminds me of the bill of our colleague, the leader of the faction of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, who is predicting these principles. And I think today all those who sit next to this little liar are happy to wait for the Ukrainian national MPs to press the button. And this will eventually be restored to human preservation for the rest of their lives or preservation will not be restored. I would like to address all the Ukrainian national deputies. We're tired of dragging young people and old people into some sort of unconsciousness. We need to give a signal that the authorities care about people, that the authorities will pay for debts that have been made by the authorities that are constantly changing for 20 years. People believed that with the change of power, they would finally mention that this eternal engine in life is the people of Ukraine. I ask everyone to support this bill by Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u219	Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u220	Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u221	Andrew Pavlovsky’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u222	Andrey Pavlovski, the "Fatherland" party. Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Of course, the bill’s subject matter has been relevant and has been resolved for 20 years, and there is no solution. At the same time, I would like to point out that the bill proposes to create a register of savings investors, a register of insurers. And only then will people be able to get savings, compensation from undervalued ones. At the same time, note that such a register was already created in 2008 under Order No. 1 of January 9, by the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as by Julius Timoshenko. And we know that almost 7 million people have received a thousand dollars for this compensation. I think these normative acts already exist, they're valid. And I think that the government of Azarov, which reports to us that we have an economic recovery every day, if it is reborn, could continue at least to start with this thousand, to continue paying this thousand, as people call it, July's thousand, let them continue to pay it. Along with why, once again, and why spend the budget again to create this register when it is and it is in Savings. Notice that it's an interesting idea to allow a cash-free account to compensate for the costs that have been lost, for the cost of housing services, electricity, fuel, medicine. All of this can be supported. At the same time, there is an observation by the scientific and expert administration that some of the provisions of this law violate the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. So I think we need to support the idea. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-30-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! The bill, the bill is closed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 1017-D, namely, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. [[on compensation for savings]] Please vote. [[14:52:28]] For 111 The factions. The Party of Regions – 9, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 69, "Our Ukraine" – 1, communists – 25, People's Party – 5, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, therefore, since the bill has once been sent for re-reading, it has not received support, it has been rejected, we have completely exhausted today's agenda as we have made our decision. Let the meetings of the Supreme Council be declared closed. There will be no evening session, we work on committees, because you and I have fully implemented the agenda for today. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
