ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:22]] There were 421 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich and Sulkovsky Paul Gnatovich. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them success in good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 15 to 18 June 2010. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 73 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, six laws and 14 regulations, 16 bills were adopted on the basis of which three bills were sent to the Committee for the preparation of the first reading, two bills were returned for further consideration, 16 bills and 5 draft regulations were rejected, 96 parliamentary requests were announced. In doing so, I would like to point out that this plenary week we have more than 120 questions to consider. And we agreed that, with regard to those bills that we can apply to the reduced procedure, we will do this and work until the finalization of the issues defined by the schedule for each plenary day. And now, your esteemed colleagues, your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I am reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine into the coalition of MPs “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call of Radovnik Arnold Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, don't whistle, there won't be any money. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized factions with proposals and announcements and reports. Please, Your Honor, and the factions to record the performance. Names of the national deputies please be brought out. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we have only recently observed the first hundred days of the work of President Viktor Yanuković of Ukraine, and today we are taking stock of the 100 days of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. Time is moving so fast that we have literally made progress in correcting the mistakes of orange chiefs while at the same time preparing for large-scale and systemic reforms in the economy and social spheres aimed at implementing the electoral programme of the Head of State, Ukraine for People. One of the main results of these 100 days was the construction of a clear executive vertical that had been destroyed over the past five years. The Stabile and Reform Coalition in the Supreme Council was established in a concise line. This allowed for the rapid establishment of a Government on the basis of professionalism and responsibility, which had begun its work without delay. The country's 2010 budget, the State's social and economic development programme for this year, was developed and adopted. Good neighbourly relations with the Russian Federation have been restored. There is renewed confidence in Ukraine by strategic partners such as the European Union and the United States of America. These decisive steps saved the country from falling into ruin and brought it back to economic recovery. Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic presented a reform strategy to the people by 2014. For the first time in years, the authorities had proposed to society, not a declaration of intent, but a clear plan of systemic change in all spheres of life of the State. 100 days of government work have shown that we are on the right track. But what has been accomplished is not yet a reason for me to feel like a laurel! As the President rightly pointed out, the main task of the Government is to create the most favourable conditions for the development of the real sector of the economy, with particular attention to the development of small business and entrepreneurship, which is the basis for the establishment of the middle class as a guarantee of the stability of the State. The issue of investment projects in the region should also be taken into account by the Government. More detail should be given to supporting the efforts of the executive branch by the parliamentary majority. Our main task as parliamentarians is to create a quality legislative framework for systemic reforms. In the meantime, pending the conclusion of this session, we have a number of critical documents to consider. First of all, the Tax and Budget Codes are finally adopted. These documents should radically change the attitude of power and business, human and State, regions and centres. We must lay the foundations that will lead to a higher standard of living. The country's adoption of the Tax Code waited for virtually all years of independence. It should establish transparent mechanisms for the interaction of fiscal authorities with taxpayers to simplify administrative procedures, make tax legislation more understandable and open the way for economic growth. In turn, the new budget code should in principle increase the capacity of local budgets, allow them to be planned for the medium term through the programme and target method. For the first time, cities and villages in Ukraine should receive additional financial resources. Eight State-wide taxes are passed on to the local level. The territorial communities will, at their discretion, be able to receive 5 per cent of the income from the enterprise income tax. The preparation of the Tax and Budget Codes for second reading will take into account the President's demands, proposals from the real sector of the economy, small business and entrepreneurship, and proposals from the people's deputies. It should be noted that our colleagues are very active in the drafting of codes. Their final adoption by mid-July will allow the Government to develop a draft Ukrainian budget for 2011 on a new legislative basis and submit it to the Supreme Council in accordance with the constitutional requirement, until 15 September. In addition to the Codes, Parliament will also consider a number of laws that will facilitate the conduct of business, develop and adopt other important bills, such as the First Reading Basics of Ukraine's Internal and Foreign Policy, the completed version will be reformed by the judiciary, and the Referendum Act will be adopted in the final version. A decisive step towards administrative and territorial reform will be the holding of local elections in October 2010. Responding to the many wishes of our voters, we will change legislation to hold elections on a mixed majority basis. A party of regions, like none other, is interested in the legitimacy of local elections and will make every effort to ensure that they are conducted as transparently, democratically and within the framework of the Constitution. Our principal position is that local elections should be scheduled for October 2010, and their second date is contrary to the Constitution, which is clearly confirmed by the Constitutional Court. The Party of the Regions invites members to act strictly within the legal field. Dear colleagues, the country has come to power for a long time, not by politicians, but by statesmen, every step we take is not for the next election, but for the future of the country. Life has shown that only such an approach is true and can achieve the intended goals. One proof of the effectiveness of our work is the continued expansion of the coalition and the constructive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the benefit of the State and people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u3	Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko from the faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Sinchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u4	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters! There's the end of the next session, two or three more plenary weeks, two or three hundred bills, all normal, fixed, traditional. But digging a little deeper, making sure, is not that simple. And last week's events about 11 billion cubic meters of gas are a powerful witness. Clearly and obviously, the situation will get worse, because by the overwhelming majority, some laws will be considered and passed, which the classic would say, “They will rock peace.” We are not going to vouch for Ukraine to the extent possible, but let us say that it is our duty to warn and to warn. Your Tax Code will be noted immediately. Finally, you read it and you were terrified. Progressive reforms here don't smell, but you're expected to be paying real taxes to super-rich citizens, who are slightly less than 3 percent of the total population, and they own almost half of the national wealth, and they're essentially not paying personal taxes. Create real tax holidays, not a bubble hole for small businesses and those who are about to start their own business. Unfortunately, you don't have it. But that's not the point. The indignation of all people has caused your money to deposit. I mean, pull more out of what's already paid. And it's also half-baked, and it's scary -- information about the amount of deposits, their investors, their addresses, they're all going to know, as they say, who's not lazy. This is Ukraine, gentlemen, not Luxembourg. So people are excited and they're going to take their deposits out of the banks. Those who have thoughtlessly pressed buttons for such decisions do not really know what this can accomplish? This is said to be a European experience. But in Europe for half a century, there has been no inflation and human rights in the first place, and we have had 20 years of inflation more than the interest rate on deposits. What kind of profits are we talking about? And for human rights, you can't talk. There are other pearls in this sad code that, if adopted, Ukraine will soon become a police state, and the economy will be brought to a deeper shadow. The new Codex of Budget is not the best epithets. In our time, we made it clear that we should leave a left - handed portion of what we earned in place. That's what we saw in the strategy of reforming power in Ukraine -- in the role of local government -- by handing over authority, responsibility, rights and resources, thus eliminating the tension of fighting for power and huge money in the center. You've sent all of this, sorry, and you're proposing even more centralization, sharing everything in Kiev. And it's not enough that you translate all the benefits that have always been a function of the center into local councils. As they say, “all together, but in place”. By the way, the role of the Supreme Council in the budgetary process, which has always been Parliament's main prerogative, is almost zero. That final blow, which can in fact destroy Parliament as an independent branch of power, will be put to the vote in favour of the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. For those who have not read it but who have voted vigorously, I will remind them that the key laws after its approval will be finally adopted through the referendum mechanism. Why did this document, which had been dusted for so long, suddenly need to be made urgent. If we're not dealing with amateurs from politics, the answer is simple. October 31 is not just an election day, for they make absolutely no decision, for the local authorities were both lawless and would remain the seat of the center. October 31st is an all - Ukrainian referendum day. At least three of his questions are obvious: the abolition of constitutional reform -- once; the substantial reduction of the members of the Supreme Council, two; and thirdly, the abolition of parliamentary integrity. A few months later, perhaps after March 27 the following year, there will be a small discussion club. I feel like we're going to be denied. Sadly, colleagues, the Moor has done his work, and you have little to do. And then there's a document that most people will adopt on a vending machine, which is the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. By means of this, you are finally bringing the entire judicial system and the courts under your control. Good-bye to right and democracy, and Makarenko's fate is therefore a powerful witness. The adoption of these four key and decisive to the fate of the country, the economy, the people of the laws may end the “historic” function of Parliament of this calling. [[in quotes]] Whether people and society accept these innovations, we'll eat -- we'll see, but it'll be a whole different story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u5	Please, Sinchenko, the Lithuanian Block faction. Prepare Demyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, present! In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the absence of a basic law in the area of the administrative and territorial system, which is directly provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, but for various reasons it has never been adopted in the last 20 years. A study and analysis of the situation, the setting up of the State Building and Local Self - Government Committee for the involvement of local authorities, and the local authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have found far - reaching indicators of dissatisfaction. In particular, as of September 1, 2009, out of the 29 thousand 818 settlements in Ukraine, only 3,000 981 settlements have been established, representing more than 13 percent of the population. At the same time, out of 170 cities, the border is set at 57, out of 280 cities of district value -- 48, out of 886 towns of urban type -- 233, out of 28475 rural areas -- 3643, which is about 13 percent. There are no limits to the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. The situation is no better when it comes to the setting of circuit boundaries. At present, out of 490 districts, only 22 districts have a borderline of about 4.5 percent of the total. The establishment of areas and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have generally remained outside the competence of any authority and is not regulated at the level of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to article 173, part 2, of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the boundaries of the region, the villages, the villages, the cities, the area in the city are being established and changed according to the projects of the land structure, which is being developed according to the technical and economic justification for their development, the general plans of the settlements. General plans have 11695 locations, of which 151 are district cities, 194 are district cities, 536 are urban villages, 10814 are rural areas, and 38 percent are rural areas. To date, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is reporting the number and composition of the local communities and authorities according to current legislation. The accounting of the population of the administrative units in the areas is carried out by the district councils. In doing so, the decisions of the authorized authorities and local self-government take effect following the publication of the messages in the “Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. According to the 12 110 official forms of local councils, there are 324 false names in the rural councils, 902 errors in the names of the locations, 566 do not have the correct category, 42 do not have the official number, 54 do not have the official number, and at the local level do not mean. 81 local councils moved their administrative headquarters, and 3 settlements were included in other rural councils. Local councils with names of errors have a certificate of a state registration of a legal person who is not officially published. They were granted permission from the IMF's license system to make seals, and as a result, they have and use official forms and seals with errors in their names. And from this point on, there are mistakes in citizens' papers: passports, birth certificates, land ownership documents, real estate, inheritance, sales, donations and so on. The same applies to keeping a national register of voters. I am convinced that these problems are not of a political nature. They relate to the specific life problems of millions of people and thousands of communities, as they may question the legality of local self - government decisions. As we can see, the sphere of social relations requires order. In doing so, such work must be done at the expense of the state in a timeframe so as not to violate the rights of every citizen, to prevent further inconveniences for the people, well-thought-out and consistent targeted steps by the national deputies of Ukraine, regardless of their political affiliation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other executive authorities and local self-government bodies. Please consider this statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Victoria Demyanchuk, the Communist faction. Behind her is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u8	Victoria Demyanchuk, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Kirovogradishte When you meet the voters in Kirovogradska this week, you see the pain in your heart that our villages, the thriving villages of Ukraine, have become. As a result, rural extinctions, unemployment, abandoned homes, poverty, roadblocks, fertile black lands, weeds, many closed post offices, kindergartens, FAPs, and schools. There is no denying that the village has become an object of ruthless exploitation, a raw colony. They pillage the village ungodlyly, and then they turn their eyes round and ask why food is always expensive. And that's because out of the 30 million hectares of the 11 million roller coasters, there are 3,000 foreign firms, and it turns out that only the land that belongs to the people of Ukraine has profits that depend on their interests. And once the land moratorium is lifted, the land will be sold out of control, and the poor will become more and more. Given that the authorities have collected large amounts of debts and are clearly unable to recover them in time, the country is awaiting Argentina’s fate without continuing the moratorium on the sale of land. Where, as we know, peasants should pay foreign companies even for crossing their own land to their own home. I would like to give an example in the village of Petrokorbovka of the Novogorodkowsky region, which in Kirovgradjska, three years ago the new owner, as Ukraine’s agricultural investment has become known, took the land rations of the inhabitants into lease. At first, when it comes to signing leases for 20 years, people were given a job and a salary, but those who worked were later put to the test of the fact that you would not sign the contract, and you would lose your job. Of the 167 people who were working at the time, only 30 had lost their jobs. And you won't find the truth. Today’s farmers have led to the fact that they have made people go to the market and buy grain to feed a hen, and there is no way to feed it. They used people, tricked people, and humiliated people, and turned them into lawless slaves. And in Soviet times, the farm was better in the area, the farm was famous for producing agricultural produce, and every year in the village, 20 residential homes were built for young families, and there were over 400 working - age people living in the village, more than half of them young. Last summer, out of 3,000 acres [3,000 ha] of leased land, nearly two thousand were unprocessed, weeds stood one and a half feet [1.5 m] high, and the work of the new host began with people leaving jobs, and the social sphere was out of the question. When it came to reorganizing contracts with a new landowner for 20 years, not all villagers liked it, but new owners warned workers if they and their relatives did not make contracts, they would lose their jobs, as they said. But it turns out that Ukraine’s agricultural investments have thus made more than just the petrocorbian peasants happy, and in Kyrovgrad, this structure rents more than 16,000 hectares [16000 ha] of land of the State Reserve Fund and the land rations of peasants in the New Orleans, Svetlovodska and Novogorodkow regions. And in each of the named areas, people suffer the same problems, and the earth is not being processed. A government service is needed, not only in consultation, but also in a position to protect peasants from the abuse of such landowners as do not count as humans. This is how the rulers of the earth behave, and a thousand villages in the city of Kirov, like the whole of Ukraine, have suffered the same fate. In Ukraine there is a harvest, a farmer, without the support of the state, again alone with his problems. Low prices for the purchase of grains for one thousand barleys for one ton of barley for 650 to 700 grivens. Once again, a peasant is put on his knees. How to develop agriculture if 10 tons of barley is to be given for one tonne of solarium and taxes, wages, repair techniques, not to mention the need for mineral fertilizers and poisons. In view of the fact that there is little money left for the development of agriculture, it is impossible to introduce new technologies to improve fertility. In recent times, we've been seeing skilled, in coffees, in farming on the ground, when for two or three years the sunflower and raps grow in the same place. This affects the loss of fertility of the earth. Elections at meetings complain of lower prices for the purchase of live weight of pigs and cattle. This year, from 18 dollars per kilogram to 9 dollars. This has already led to a massive decline in livestock, a threat to the disappearance of natural milk and natural products. Where are we going? State support, the contribution of agricultural funds is not only an additional job but also a contribution to the health of the nation. One agricultural worker creates 7-8 jobs in the city. We need to change legislation, reinforce disciplinary responsibility. The Communist faction calls on all those who care about the fate of their people and their country to vote for the extension of the moratorium on land. If the changes happen, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u10	So we're on the verge of an environmental catastrophe, which will lead to the destruction of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u11	Please, Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the main result of 100 days of activity of the new government was the weakening of democratic freedoms in Ukraine. This was not only celebrated by the citizens of our nation, it was at a session of such an important institution as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to emphasise that it is not just political freedom of speech or peaceful meetings, for, as Polish economic wonder maker Lesik Baltzerovich rightly pointed out, “economic freedom serves to create and strengthen political”. However, if the power of the law becomes a government version of the Tax and Budget Code, there will be only one category of freedom in Ukraine: government officials, and especially taxpayers. These documents have become a manifestation of bureaucracy, and entrepreneurs have become deeply attracted by such “news” hair. [[in quotes]] The codes concentrate all economic power in Kabmin. Local communities, the Supreme Council, and local councils remove decisions from the process of discussion and decision - making. The Cabin will collect taxes and distribute them through the budget to his own discretion. By the way, the coalition failed a professional draft of the Tax Code prepared by the representatives of our faction. The authorities are now going to deal heroically with the difficulties that they have created and would have had to give a hindrance to the most odious of the same tax code. I'm not going to stop at the specific rates of one tax or another, so there's no point in comparing the proposed sharp increase in fiscal burden on entrepreneurs with the pre-election promises of tax breaks for small businessmen. The attempts in the Code are not simply unworked; they discredit the very idea of creating an understandable and favourable tax system. The adoption of the Code now threatens the stability of government finances. The main problem with the Tax Code government project is the transformation of the tax service into an authority with virtually unlimited powers. The taxpayer again wants the right without the court’s decision to remove funds from the accounts of legal and natural persons. We have anti-constitutional discrimination: if the court decides in the interests of the taxpayer, it can be charged. But if it's a tax decision, it's final, and it's not an accusation. Or when tax requires the right to search any premises, including the tax payer's personal residence. The tax code is called a declaration of tax service rights. Its 22 articles lay down the responsibility of tax payers and only one tax payer. The Budget Code is generally a set of standards that are weakly linked to each other and to the budgetary system in general. It does not conform to the Tax Code, but, above all, effectively excludes the Supreme Council from the budgetary process. The Minister of Finance will have the right to change the budget one-on-one: transfer the funds anywhere you want and borrow as much as you want and wherever you want, there is no limit to Kabmin's increase in government debt. Therefore, it is unacceptable to go to those who call for the adoption of codes first and then to improve them. As we know, there is nothing more permanent than temporary. I call on the coalition not to repeat the mistakes made in the adoption of the 2010 State Budget, which took place in 15 minutes. Codex projects need long - term and thorough revisions. Our faction is willing to take part in this, and there are many proposals. In particular, I will note that it is important in the document to ensure a systematic relationship between policies, a reduction in tax rates, and a reduction or even elimination of exemptions and exemptions that have only increased in the draft Tax Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are finished, two factions, the factions of the "Timoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" ask to announce a recess for 30 minutes. So, please, in view of the fact that we have now agreed on the Conciliation Council that we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council during the break, I would now like to ask the faction leaders and the first deputy head of the Media Committee to approach the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council while this 30-minute recess is taking place, we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council, which is due to take place at 12 o'clock. There's a break to 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, there has been a meeting of the Conciliation Council, let's move forward in this way: first, the initiators of the break will report on what was proposed for the break, then I'll inform you about the decision of the actual Conciliation Board, and I think we'll continue to have a good reason to work fruitfully by making up for the time we have. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Statement by the faction “Blocca timoshenko” in the Supreme Council. Last week, June 23rd, the Ukrainian Security Service unlawfully seized the ex-head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, Anatolia Viktorovich Makarenko. The head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Horoshkovsky, who is motivated by the detention of Anatoly Makarenko, calls him a suspect in the criminal investigation of the damage to the State of Ukraine as a result of the review of the “Rosukrenerego” lawsuit in the Stockholm Arbitration. The special cynicism of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service is that the owner of the “Rosukreenergo”, Mr. Firtash, who appealed to Ukraine, is a business partner of Mr. Horoshkowski. Moreover, it is no secret to anyone that from the very beginning the founding of “Rosukrenerego” stood two people – Mr. Firtash, who is the shadowiest political sponsor of Mr. Janukovič, as well as today's active Minister of Fuel and Energy, Yuri Boyko. Thus, the first suspect in this case, based on this information, which is published by Mr. Horoshkovsky, must be the President of Ukraine, Mr. Yanukovic, who has actually filed a lawsuit with the hands of his immediate environment in Ukraine, which makes our country obliged to pay the closest associates of the current President $5 billion of the United States or to pay 12 billion cubic metres of gas. Today we only have 16. So whatever statements are made today from the mouths of the Dobrokovskys and similar to them, the increase in prices for municipal tariffs, the government budget deficit, the lack of funds in the Pension Fund are the costs of our citizens who will go into the pockets of Mr. Yanukovich's immediate surroundings. Arresting and keeping Makarenko in custody has nothing to do with any criminal case. A senior executive was abandoned for defending the interests of the state, and in times of extreme economic and financial crisis, he faithfully carried out his duties. To avoid Mr. Horoshkovsky speaking today on the air of his own TV channel, “Inter”, looking at the smile of a sadist, Anatolia Makarenko's arrest is an act of personal revenge and a massacre against a true patriot and an officer who in his own time did not allow organized crime groups to gain billions of dollars at the expense of the state. Today, Viktor Janukovic and his immediate surroundings, using the Stockholm Court’s ruling, are trying to legalize the funds stolen from Ukraine. And the entire burden of our nation's loss on the part of Ukrainian taxpayers. The arrest of Makarenko, the discovery of criminal cases by the Henprocuratorate and the Security Service against NAC ex-directors Naftogaz is an attempt to take out witnesses of the major crime of Yanukovic and his associates.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u16	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u17	In view of this, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko in the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires: First. To call on the Supreme Council and to provide information to the Attorney General or to the person who is responsible for his duties, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for unilateral study and investigation of the situation surrounding the Stockholm Court’s decision. And we also demand that the investigating, senior lieutenant Mr. Dronov change the precautionary measure for Mr. Makarenko and release him from prison to the orders of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. And also, I wanted to say to the mothers, the wives, the sisters, the people who are working for the Ukrainian Security Service today, the Attorney General's Office, who are. the people who make illegal decisions, who sign illegal criminal orders. The government in Ukraine is changing very quickly. And it may happen that Mr. Makarenko, head of the investigator’s office, Mr. Derevyanko, head of the Department of Mr. Kmit, is not going to sit in the 158th Chamber of the Lukyanian Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u18	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have made our decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Time's up. What? I don't get it. You'll have to finish 10 seconds. You've been here for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u19	And the last. You know, the officers in Ukraine who served both during the existence of the Soviet Union and during Ukraine, the active Ukrainian state, I don't think they've said their last word and pushed them into the mud, as they do today by the active authority, don't need to. Because we have nothing to lose except our honor. And I want you to remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council had a proposal on the need to create a temporary commission of inquiry on this matter. The Conciliation Council supported this proposal. I suggested on Wednesday that we consider this matter to the committee on Thursday, so that we could vote in favour of the creation of the TSC. There was no problem. I see no reason to block. There were also no problems in that regard as regards the invitation to provide information and to the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service. There were differences only when to do so. It was proposed tomorrow at 10 a.m. We didn't. It's 16 o'clock today. Agreed. So at 4:00 a.m., we'll listen to the information on this subject. I don't see any problems here, so we're tearing down the session room right now. And as for the third question, the investigative requirements, I think in accordance with the law, please make your proposals, your requests, and let them respond accordingly. We're going to assume that at this stage, this is actually an incident in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to agree on the representation for the 16 - hour review of this problem. And now I would ask, my dear colleagues, to fold the advertising product, the more you and I act within the bounds of the law. I'd like to do it now so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, please. Well, I'd like you to take it off now, well we can't go on looking at the issues that are relevant to the TSC and that sort of thing. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we've reached a compromise, let's say we agreed that once the performance takes place, we'll have to take out the explicit agitation. We've agreed to do these arrangements. The new introductory ones don't go through. Take it easy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's do the deal that we have agreed with you. Breaks at 12 o'clock, we agreed too, we won't, because we've lost time anyway. Well if you don't want to do it yourself, let me invite the representatives of the secretariat, let them take this product off if you don't want to do it. Please take it off and we'll write you a bonus. Please invite them to take all of this off. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Tuesday’s June 29th issues. Thus, honourable colleagues are called upon to consider the election of members of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on a procedure for dealing with this issue. The committee's report is up to 10 minutes. Questions to the committee head - in five minutes. After that, there will be desire, statements from the factions, up to three minutes. Then we move on to the rating vote. Depending on the number of votes cast, we will vote on the final decision. Is there no objection? Then please. For whatever it is that we don't have, dear colleagues, because this is a very sensitive issue, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal on how to deal with this issue. May I have your attention, please? First. It's a procedure. 10 minutes is the presentation by the first deputy chairman of the committee, Andrey Shevchenk. Five minutes he'll answer the question if there is. After that, respectable colleagues, speak from factions for up to 3 minutes. And then we go to the vote. The rating vote. Candidates will be voted in alphabetical order. After the ratings vote, depending on the votes we're going to vote first for those who won the biggest votes and so on to the smallest vote for the candidate who won the smallest votes. If the first four people are elected, the vote stops because we only have four vacancies. I am voting on a proposal for such a procedure to consider the matter. Please vote. [[11:36:05]] For 252 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 168, “Timoshenko Block” – 24, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 10, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 4. Welcome to the rostrum of Andria Vitaliovich Shevchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u21	Good health to all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the workers will be here soon, they will be filming, because those who have hung don't want to take pictures. Dear colleagues, once again, I take this opportunity to remind you that I have signed letters to the heads of factions for the disqualification that was in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make voluntary contributions, otherwise they will not receive a salary until they solve this problem. And they will have the opportunity to go to court, and the court will decide. So I'd like to take off the appropriate visual agitation right now. Dear colleagues, we've agreed that after the faction's statement, which called for a recess, and after the decision of the Conciliation Board is announced, the eye agitation will be removed. Please make your commitment, for at 16 hours you will be able to reblock the rostrum. If you do not do one thing, you will not do the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u23	How can I make it? Here, take it and make it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Andrew Vitaliovich. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u24	If you don't mind, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u25	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u26	So we're looking at a question that's extremely important, both for the media industry and freedom of speech, and for the whole country, which is impossible, which is impossible without a successful media market. I'm going to remind you that right now we have a situation where the National Council on Television and Radio can't work, with eight members of the National Council now only three are working. The parliamentary quota is composed of four members of the Nakrad. Now no man represents the Supreme Council of the National Council on Television and Radio. At the commission of the Supreme Council, the committee held a competition to fill these vacant posts and as a result of the announcement of this competition, the committee adopted a decision that was adopted on June 16. I am authorized to bring this decision to the Supreme Council. When we approved this decision, the committee came together on the following point, which, according to the law, we have to submit to the session hall those candidatures that certainly meet the requirements of the law. According to these criteria, we have removed from the list of candidates who were submitted for consideration in the session hall the following candidates: first, those who were submitted after the completion of the nominations, i.e. after June 4; secondly, those who were submitted by inappropriate subjects, namely, by law it should be either a faction, or the All-Ukrainian Union of Citizens working in the field of television broadcasting; and thirdly, if the applicants did not meet the clear qualification requirements described in the law, such as the availability of higher education or 5 years of internship in the television area. As a result of this discussion, the committee adopted a decision: Out of 26 applicants, 17 applicants were assigned to the session room. At the same time, I'm informing you that this procedure itself has led to a serious, violent discussion between factions. As a result of today's meeting of the Conciliation Council, I understand that three factions of the coalition have been approved: in the session room to consider all the candidates that have been submitted to the committee, except for those applicants who have already taken a stand for themselves. So today we're going to be looking at 23 applicants. Twenty-six people were brought in, and three took their own leave. As decided by the Conciliation Board, I have been instructed by the voting process to present the position of the committee to each of the candidates. I'm going to save time, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on this, I'm going to finish my report now, and then I'm going to be able to present the committee's position on each candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, if you have a question for Andri Vitaliovich, please sign up. Five minutes. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u29	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u30	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Mr. Andrey, it is clear that if the coalition today has agreed to vote in favour of the rating vote, we will not get any proposal from the opposition factions as a result of this vote, our presence in the Nacrada. Can you answer the question whether it's fair, and would it not be worth agreeing that the opposition factions would have the opportunity to have some representation in Nacrad, otherwise the democracy of its work, I think is impossible, and in that way nothing of what we vote today will result in no result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u31	Well, as you can see, the committee was looking at the candidates not in terms of political representation, but in terms of their professional requirements, and I'll be able to report these results on the process of presenting candidates. All I can say is that it's very common among committee members, and in general, in a non-active environment, which we would very much like to have in the National Council, not people with party flags, but people working for the interests of this market, in the interests of this procession.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u32	People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u33	Andrew Vitaliyovich, I'd like to ask you a question like this. And why the opposition, which most in the committee, did not want to listen to the legal requirements — I emphasize — which are also prescribed in the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Committees, which clearly states: “the organizational function of the committees is to discuss the candidates for office, to prepare for the consideration of the Supreme Council for their appointment.” Preparations for consideration. the relevant conclusions on these candidates. The Nakrad Act also states that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whose competence is related to the issue of television broadcasting, has previously discussed the proposed candidates and has submitted appropriate submissions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on each candidature with conclusions and recommendations. Then what law did you want to establish?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u34	Vladimir Ivanovich, we know each other very well, I appreciate your sense of humor and political flexibility. I have in my hands a transcript of our meeting with you of the committee, which, I recall, asked about the removal from the number of participants in the competition of all the applicants who submitted the documents later. The decision was adopted unanimously. Vladimir Landik voted in favour, including to remove a candidate named Panasuk from this list, which was introduced by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Next in the transcript is the vote to remove from the number of applicants those who do not meet the qualifications. Among them is a pretender named Eugene Baranov, who was introduced by the Party of the Regions. The vote is unanimous, including the voice of Vladimir Landik. So I think there's just a sense, probably for ourselves once and for all, to determine whether we're acting under the law when we run into the hall those applicants who fully fit every letter of the law and no one will have a question about that in court, and there will be confidence in the market. Whether we vote on the committee one way and then we speak in the session room in a completely different way. The position of the committee as set out in the decision is as follows. It was that only those who fit the qualifications should be considered in the competition hall. It probably doesn't make sense now, because there is a decision of the Conciliation Council, under the insistence of representatives of the three factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u35	In the end. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u36	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Andrej Vitalevich, even though you're trying to convince us here and everyone who watches and listens to the broadcast of the Supreme Council Hall, that you're on the watch for the laws. But what happened today in the Hall just when you, the representatives of the BIT faction, among other things, promise to do something because there is a rule of the Rules and you do not comply with your obligations to the Rules, violates your desire to show that you are in compliance with the law. What right could your committee have denied any nominations, because by law, under our Rules, you should have submitted all the nominations to the session and reported here in the Hall that some procedures might be violated, that there might be some candidate who did not meet the requirements of the law. You had no right to make the decision you had made. Once again, this confirms that the BUT faction has never complied with the law and is very capable of lying.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u37	Mrs. Hello, you're an experienced MP, I'll just remind you how we voted for the members of the Nacrada in previous calls. Only those recommended by the committee were brought into the hall. Not just all those who met the qualifications but those who had a positive decision on the committee. Since this year, we have gone according to the law: We have placed all who meet the requirements in the hall. And just so we don't find out which faction we have is more honest, which is less honest, I'm going to say that the representative of your faction unanimously voted with all of us to remove from this competition representatives, including factions of the Party of Regions, including filing from the "Block of Lithuania" on the basis of inadequate qualifications. I have a stenographer in my hands where I vote unanimously to remove from the list of contestants those who are submitted later, or those who do not meet the qualifications. Now let us not find out who is more honest, is a political decision, let us move forward with this political decision. I represent the position of the committee here, and I may ask you to respect the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Replica after completion. After the discussion was over, I said Landik and Dove. Dear colleagues! Landik and Dove will have the right to be considered once the issue has been resolved, all of it, time is running out. Let's go. Andrey Vitaliyovich, now such an offer, after every candidate of the committee's decision and the candidates who took the lead, and then before the vote, there will be statements from the factions. Please, after each candidate, and listen carefully to the committee's decision, on all the candidates except those for whom there is a self-registration, i.e. people have written applications and withdrawn their nominations. Then there'll be the factions and then the votes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u39	Okay. We'll move in alphabetical order. We've got 26 applicants, I've got the name of the three who took the lead, Alexander Zorco, this is Victor Nabruzko, and this is Michaela Kolinichenko. So 23 candidates will be put to the rating vote. I'll introduce them in alphabetical order. The number one candidate is Ivan Dmitrovitch Adamchuk. John Adamchuk controls the TV channel, controls the 5 channels, and he's posted by the MP's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". According to Mr. Adamchuk, it is the committee’s decision to recommend it before it is approved by a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Next, Vasil Anipchenko, president of the Association of Skreteléreža, was nominated by the All-Ukrainian Association of Cable Television Operators and the Association of the Western Ukrainian Guild of Cable Television Operators. The committee also recommends that Vasil Anipchenko be approved as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Next. Eugene Baranov, Director of the Department of Open Shareholders of Kievspectrans. Mr. Baranov was promoted by the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. The committee's decision on this nomination was to remove it from the number of contestants on the ground that it did not meet the qualifications requirements. During the examination of the stenogram committee, Mr. Baranov confirmed under the video that he had no internship, no internship in television. On this basis, there was a unanimous decision by the committee to remove him from the contest. Next. Vladimir Blinkov, head of the Department of Advanced Research and Quality Control of Science and Technology and Frequency Development of the National Council. He was promoted by an independent association of Ukrainian television speakers. The committee did not recommend approval by a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Next. Mikola Gricenko, currently unemployed, posted by the deputy faction “Blok Litvina”, the Association of Media Workers of Ukraine and co-workers of information publications. It meets the qualifications. The committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be approved by a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. By procedure, the committee approved two decisions: first, it looked at the qualifications requirements and was determined accordingly to allow competition or not to allow; and secondly, after each candidature, the committee had the right to recommend, on the basis that it would be a worthy representative of the Supreme Council. I'm going to say that after Nicholas Grizzenko, Mikola Gritsenko of the nine members of the committee won zero votes. So there was no committee member to recommend it for approval by the Nakrad. Zero votes. The next candidate is Oksana Jelmanova, CEO of the FIM Group, Ukrainian Communist Party MP. The committee held a heated discussion with this candidate and concluded that Oxana Yelmanova did not meet the qualifications of the law to the members of the National Council on Television and Radio. On June 16, there were no documents that properly confirmed the five - year internship of Oksana Jelmanov in the radio area. Also under the transcript and the video, Mrs. Yelmanova reported that she did not personally fill out the documents as a candidate for the first category of civil servant and that her data was inaccurate. On this basis, the committee decided to remove her from the membership of the Nacradis vacancy pageant. The next candidate is Andrew Carpiy, director of the TRC “Class”. Raised by the Ukrainian Broadcasting Association The committee believes that it meets the qualifications requirements. However, only two members of the committee voted on the recommendation for support. That is, the committee's decision to let the competition go, not to recommend it for approval. The next one is Kwurt Konstantin Semenović. Constantine Qurt, promoted by the Social Media Centre, also by the Association of Regional Publications. He is the head of the international social organization Internews Ukraine. At the time of the committee’s consideration of the documents, there were no documents to confirm the timing of the submission. So the committee voted to remove him from the contest. At this point, he's going through exactly like a pretender. Next. Catenko Catherine Sergiyevna. Catherine is the executive director of the Industrial Television Committee association, promoted by the Independent Radio Association, as well as the deputy faction of the Block of Lithuania. The committee recognized her as a candidate who met the qualifications requirements and unanimously recommended that a member of the Board on television and radio talk be approved. So let's go to the competition and recommend. Next. Cotyuin Tetjana Grigorovna Mrs. Kotuzhinska is the secretary of the National Journalist Association of Ukraine and the President of the Media Lawyers Association. It is posted by the National Association of Journalists of Ukraine. Committee Decision: To be accepted for approval. Krusnovsky Sergey Ivanovich, Head of the State Housing and Utilities Inspectorate of Kiev. Launched by the All-Ukrainian Car Club of Journalists. He was head of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, a reference information. The committee's decision: to allow the competition, not to be recommended for approval in the hall, he only got two votes. Next. Herman Yuriovich Kudinov, Director General of the “Lugansk Cable Television” District Association. It is promoted by two organizations: the Association of Skritoreža and the All-Ukrainian Association of cable operators and television networks. Committee decision: To allow and recommend to the Supreme Council that it be approved by a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Seven votes out of nine. Next. Natala Ligacheva-Kornolutsk. Ms. Ligacheva is the editor-in-chief of the magazine and the Internet publication Telecriticala, posted by the independent media-profession of Ukraine, as well as the social organization Foundation. Social Media Centre.” The committee unanimously accepted it and unanimously recommended that it be approved in the session hall as a member of the Nacrada for television and radio. Labunski Yuri Aleksandrovich, head of the All-U.S. Association of Cable and Television Network Operators, is posted by the organization. Committee Decision: To be accepted for approval is not recommended. Messical Catherine Andriyevna, executive director of the Independent Association of Radio Speakers Imported by the Independent Radio Association. The committee's decision is to allow the competition unanimously and to recommend it unanimously for approval. Irina Volodymyrna's drunk. Ms. Opilat teaches at the theatre department and theatre critics at the Kyiv State University of the Theatre, Film and Television Karpenka-Karogo. It's posted by the deputy faction of the Lithuanian Block. During the committee's consideration, the committee decided to remove from the number of applicants on the ground that the documents were not properly drawn up. Yuri Storobuk, temporarily unemployed. Dwelled by the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Committee decision: To allow a contest to be approved by a member of the National Television and Radio Council. Fortuzha Mikola Vševodovitch, director of the Society with limited responsibility “New Borders”. He was promoted by the Party of the Regions and by the Independent Association of Radio Speakers. Committee Decision: To be accepted and recommended for approval in the session room. Jurchenko Valerij Volodymyrovich, head of the Radio Broadcasting Company Skif. He was appointed member of the Nacrada All-Ukrainian Society of Education, Taras Shevchenk. During the committee's consideration, the committee did not find evidence that Education was the right subject of promotion. The law obliges this to be the All-Ukrainian Union of Citizens, which operates in the field of radio broadcasting. Education, according to Minnesota and according to the statute, is not such an organization. The committee therefore decided to remove Mr. Jurchenk from the list of candidates. Sweden Alexander Aleksandrovich, CEO of the Ukrainian Cable Television Association He was introduced by a candidate from the Ukrainian Cable Television Association. Ukraine’s cable television community is not an all - Ukrainian community of citizens. On this basis, the committee unanimously decided to remove him from the number of applicants. Mr. Kostin Eduardovich, Head of the Legal Department of the ICTV International Commercial Television. He's been promoted to this position by the MP faction of the Party of the Regions. The application for Mr. Panasuk was made with a weekly delay, and on this basis the committee unanimously decided to remove him from the list of applicants. Chekmishev Alexander Viktorovich is representing the Committee “Equality of Opportunities”. Appointed member of the National Association of Regional Publications. At the time of the Committee's consideration, there were no reports of timely submission, so the Committee voted in favour of the removal of Mr. Chekmishev from the number of applicants. And the last candidate on our list is Taras Shevchenko, director of the Media Law Institute. He was nominated by the All-Ukrainian Professional Association “Independent Media Association”, also by the Association of Regional Publications and also by the public organization “Centre of Social Media”. After Taras Shevchenk, it was decided unanimously to allow the competition and unanimous decision to recommend that the Supreme Council approve Mr. Shevchenk as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. I'm going to try to summarize mathematics so we can understand how we moved. Twenty-six pretenders, three self-registrations, which means we're not looking at them today, but we're left with 23. I would like to remind you that the committee recommended that 17 candidates be considered in the Supreme Council in the 17th meeting room, those who clearly meet the qualifications and of these 17 we recommended for approval 11 people, positions for each of them sounded. So now 23 candidates will be nominated for the rating vote by the Conciliation Board.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u40	Everything? Thank you, Andrey Vitaliovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, therefore, of the 26 candidates 23 remain on the voting list if you wish to speak from the factions, please register. What? So now we're in the process of dealing with the question: we're going to finish the question and I wrote the Pigeon and. So let's say that before the vote there's an opportunity, we're in the process of dealing with the issue. Please sign up, Your Honor, for the factions. Already. Yes, put your names on the board. Lilia Grigorovich, Andrew Shevchenko, Alla Alexandrovska Who? Irina Heratschenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please. Andrew Shevchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are really discussing an extremely important question in the hall today. Because it refers not only to the formation of a regulatory body but to the question of freedom of speech, which is very sensitive not only to Ukrainian society but also to the world community. And we know that those critical remarks that are now before the new authority are primarily about freedom of speech issues. I want to go to my colleagues from the coalition first, because it's your decision today that really depends not only on the fate of the National Television and Radio Council, but also on your colleagues who now own television channels, who own certain media structures. Because today there is an enormous danger, esteemed colleagues, that Nacrada, which is formed, can become not just a regulator, but a punitive apparatus, a punitive repressive apparatus that will cut frequencies just for the loyal to the authorities of the canals and turn them into a reservation for all the disagreeables. And on the other hand, he will punish all those who take the right position with regard to freedom of speech. And you, your own esteemed colleagues, now you can fall into this trap, when the Nakrad will actually become a hostage of one person, one holding company and one force structure, and today it all goes to that. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that even in Kuchma's time, the National Council on Television and Radio has been successful in the same way as those from opposition factions, or from public organizations in the field of television. Our faction, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" takes a perfectly clear and clear position here. First of all, we're going to support the lifters from our faction. And I would like to point out that the faction of "Our Ukraine" has put forward a candidate for a man who is known in a television station not only as a professional but as a patriotic person and who will always stand for freedom of speech. And so our faction is going to vote in the rating vote for all the candidates put forward by public organisations because we think this is the right European experience. When my colleague, Andriy Shevchenko, correctly observed that Nacrad should not be a representative, not an organization where different flags are represented, but primarily a professional body where people are working professional patriotic, which is not media oligarchs, but primarily a television industry and will protect not their leaders, but the information field of the country. And the dangers of protecting Ukraine’s information field are many today. So I want to go to my coalition colleagues and encourage you, first of all, to protect freedom of speech in Ukraine, to support the professional people and to support those people who have been promoted by public organizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u42	Andrew Shevchenko, microphone, please turn it on. They'll come out of the place. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u43	Thank you. I'm going to take this opportunity to say more than when I represented this committee's position. Look, it's a very simple situation. You know, in World War I, soldiers in trenches took a cage with birds, there with parrots or canaries, and when the bird's gas attack was coming down first, and the soldiers were holding these birds to see that if the birds were bad, then the next one would be him. Everything that's going on with freedom of speech, with journalists, with the radio space, with these birds, and with these canaries, it's the most sensitive thing there is. Let's remember what the National Council for Television and Radio is all about. This should be a regulator demonstrated independently of all political and market-based possibilities. I think that the decision that we're going to make today when we're completing half of the Nacrada should be exactly the same as ever from politics, away from specific lobbyist interests. I understand that there are now two elections in front of the coalition. I have no illusion and we understand that the decision today depends on three factions: the faction of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Communists, the faction of the "Lituinian Block". Or break through the knee of the Supreme Council and fill the entire quarter with representatives of your three factions. Or to listen to what the National Council has been talking about for a long time for many weeks and many months, to do everything at last to make the National Council independent, not to have people sitting there with party flags and not people with specific business obligations in front of a large or small business group, but to people who are going to work in the market as a whole, in the country and in the journalistic profession. Therefore, on behalf of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, I urge our colleagues in the hall to be guided by this when we make decisions. Who will our faction vote for? First of all, we're asking you to pay attention to two tenants from two opposition factions. This is John Adamchuk of the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", the leader of the “5 channel” with which I had the honour to work. He's a specialist who knows exactly what the market is all about. This would also be a gesture of support for the “5 channel” that is currently experiencing very difficult times. The second is the exhibitor of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Yuri Storobuk. Besides, I fully support Irina Heratchenko's position. I call on all colleagues in the session room to listen to the position that has been voiced to us by the journalistic movement Stop Censories!, which has been sounded by journalists' social organizations, which for the first time in a very long time have gathered together and have offered to work together their candidates for this body. I'll give them a call, I'll name who these representatives represent the "Stop Censorship!" movement among the contestants. First of all, Taras Shevchenko is the director of the Media Law Institute, a brilliant media lawyer, perhaps the best Eastern European media lawyer. Second, Natalia Ligacheva, who is a multi-year TV critic and in many ways the conscience of the journalist community. Thirdly, there is Constantine Kruth, who runs the Internews-Ukraine organization, who also knows the market perfectly and is worthy to represent it. Friends, it's up to us to what atmosphere the National Council will be working in, whether it will be made up of one force or one coalition, or whether it will work in the market, in the journalistic profession, what it actually expects from Nacrada and from us all the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u44	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Please identify who will be speaking from the Party of Regions. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we must make a very responsible decision and take a public view of the perspective of Ukraine's information space. First conclusion. Over the past five years, the orange team has destroyed the information spaces and has in fact torn it apart for its own good. When they talk about freedom of speech, I'd like them to remember how they killed Odessa's television companies for speaking out against Yushchenk. This freedom of the word “Benderovsky” is called. How they destroyed the Dnepropetrov channels for taking action against the governor of orange, who was tearing the earth apart. Is that your democracy? Is that your freedom of speech? Gentlemen, please don't confuse God's gift with other things! Second, comrades! Information space is indeed under threat today. Because they put the problem of freedom of speech on the shield today, when they issued a mass of licenses, 25 watt capacity, that's still, let's say, not enough for the area. Six hundred bracelets were paid, and hundreds of millions of dollars wanted to put themselves in their pocket. This is also called a public approach. And that's what Mr. Shevchenko knows perfectly well, who here is trying to inspire us to build him as a freedom of speech fighter. Next. With regard to specific candidates. Comrades, come on, it's getting ridiculous. You know that the university has been voted out, so to speak, in order to verify that well-known history of the Vice-President of the Security Service, documents have been drawn up. The man the faction recommends has two educations! Two educations and two diplomas! One after the other. Next. Shows a diploma, shows a letter of credit, stamped, signed and, of course, evaluated, submits documents during the meeting of the Committee to be considered. Specially, it is necessary to consider and release the Secretary of the Commission. These documents were specially closed to falsify this position. Come on, comrades. The workbook shows where it is written that for 7 years it is run specifically by a company that is relevant to this issue - everyone is doing everything not to address this problem and to discredit it. Why? Because it raised the issue of the criminal responsibility of the team that worked on the council. And there's also a special commission that we've created that needs to be brought to an end and, excuse me, planted for selling and betraying national interests. Here's the deal, Mr. Chevchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u46	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! The Party of the Regions has never put corporate, party interest at the forefront of human resources issues. Here, you are watching the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, the majority of Parliament, work in harmony today. Why? Because corporate interests can be different, party interests. And the public interest is one. We have always put the public interest at the top, Ukraine has one, and the public interest always unites. Same here. We will not praise that our best, as we have come out here and spoken, from Our Ukraine, the best, from BUTO, the best there is, from someone who is the worst. We are not saying that we are the best, and we do not call for a vote in favour of ours, but we call for a vote in favour of the worthy candidates who will come to this responsible section of work and will indeed make the media the fourth independent branch of power. We, as no one, are interested in being the fourth independent branch of government. We want the media to be a wide platform for discussion, for an exchange of views, because we have to make serious decisions, often unpopular, and we do not want the power of power or our political will to be used, but in the process of explaining, in the course of discussions on different information trays, we want people consciously to understand the need for such decisive, not always popular, but sometimes painful, but critical decisions for the future of the State. That's why I think Vladimir Mikhailovich said it was the right thing to do. We've already lost two hours today, and it's not clear what if we count in the money, how much these posters, hangings, shootings, and so on, our taxpayers pay for all this money instead of doing business. Therefore, the decision algorithm is, there are names, should be put to the vote, to the rating, i.e. by procedure, to move and make a decision. I think that Parliament is wise, it will not vote in favour of its own, it will vote in favour of those who are needed in these positions today and are adequate to our political realities, and who is indeed capable of making the media the fourth independent branch of power that will not serve, as before, individual political forces, individual political leaders. We don't need that kind of media. And I think there are decent people among these candidates, and the result of the vote on the board will show the most worthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. The replicas. And they've got Landik, Dove and Shevchenko. Please, Volodymyr Landik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u49	Thank you. I want to support an earlier member of the CHR who said that he was lying, lying and lying. After the meeting of our committee, on my initiative, another committee was convened the following day, the same committee the next day at 12 a.m., where we wanted to bring everyone to one. It was then that the current opposition, which in most cases refused to submit them, left the meeting. That's why Andrei Vitalevich is silent and silent, why the whole country is building its ears because of the three channels that are wrong. Was there even one representative of power in the opposition of the former, us, the Party of the Regions, in Tom Nacsov? I wasn't. It wasn't, and then you, being in power, made that decision, and now everyone there is being judged, and everyone is making a mockery, and you're calling us to divorce you. You did it. You're divorcing yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u50	The Dove People's Deputy. Please, the microphone. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the issue is really important and complex, and there are no drags and false information on this. Well, first of all, I wanted to say that the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, speaking, had expressed not only the opinion of the entire Committee, as he had said, but only parts of the Committee. I will remind you that the opposition has more than one vote. Second moment. Both myself and my colleagues from the Party of the Regions have on several occasions raised the question that the Committee is in violation of the law, assuming the powers of the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, those who represent the opposition have not heard our point of view. In the end, the third question is fundamental to the candidature put forward by the faction of the Company of Ukraine. I think that both journalists and members of the committee can testify that all the necessary documents on higher education, the original of the workbook, were presented at the meeting, and there were no formal grounds for the Committee's withdrawal. Unfortunately, the opposition was guided by political values. I think we'll go legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u52	Andrew Shevchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u53	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I just think it's about actually respecting the Supreme Council and how we feel about committee work and how we work in the hall. I'd like to address the Communist Party. If you, out of tens of thousands of journalists and media professionals, found a person you can't help file documents with the Supreme Council for a ministerial office that's at the same level, that might not be a reason to put it. Well, from the top of your head to the whole Supreme Council and the whole country? If this person on a stenographer's committee tells us that she didn't fill out her own documents and she has false information, if we're presented with a "leap" diploma on the 95th year of the Soviet model, if the committee shows a workbook without a seal, without a signature, it's normal respect for the Supreme Council and normal respect for the National Council on Television and Radio? Is this really the approach your faction takes to all human resources issues? I mean, it's very simple. Let's respect procedures. If this person is dear to you, do not let his diplomas, his work books, or his or her work take place in the hall, but help him or her to make proper contributions and work for the benefit of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, and the discussion has shown that we need to resolve, among other things, the issue of committee management. And I've asked for both the BUT faction and the faction of the Party of the Regions to agree, please, on how you're exchanging with the committee so that you can make a decision to have the committee lead Andrew Shevchenko. Unfortunately, I realize that they do not want to do so in order to provide a basis for the political process. So I don't think we'd have any mutual accusations that the committee isn't working on anything. And how can the committee work when there is no committee head and the committee's first deputy head have to work with everyone so that they can come to the committee meeting? So either let's do it this week, this problem has been solved; or let's do what it requires. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament And now, dear fellows, we move on to the vote. I now announce a rating vote on each candidate. I will call my father’s first name, you just listen carefully and identify yourself. Adamchuk Ivan Dmitrovich. [[12:16:21]] For 177 By factions, please: Region Party 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 124, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 52, Communist faction - 0, "Litvina Block" - 0, non-fractional - 1. Anipchenko Vasil Leonidovich. [[12:16:59]] For the four of us. Yeah, go on. Baranov Eugene Valeriyovich. [[12:17:22]] For 245 Blinkov Vladimir Ivanovich. [[12:17:45]] For 1 Grizzenko Mikola Semenovich. [[12:18:08]] For the four of us. Yelmanova Oksana Mikolayevna [[12:18:29]] For 248 Yes, Karpiy Andry Stanislavovich. [[12:18:52]] For -6 Kurt Konstantin Semenovich. [[12:19:13]] For the 120th. Cotyuin Tetjana Grigorovna [[12:19:35]] For-21 Catenko Catherine Sergiyevna. [[12:19:57]] For 177 Krusnovsky Sergey Ivanovich. [[12:20:19]] For the five of us. Kudinov Herman Yuriovich. [[12:20:41]] For-9 Ligacheva-Cherno-Lucia Natalia Lvivna. [[12:21:03]] For-179 Labunski Yuri Aleksandrovich [[12:21:24]] For -6 The butcher's Katerina Andriyevna. [[12:21:42]] For 175 Irina Volodymyrna's drunk. [[12:22:06]] For 348 Storobuk Yuri Anatoliyovich. [[12:22:28]] For-182 The Fartuy Mikola of the Venevolence. [[12:22:50]] For three hundred Jurchenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. [[12:23:12]] For-13. Sweden Alexander Alexandrovich. [[12:23:32]] For the four of us. Shevchenko Taras Sergiyovich. [[12:23:52]] For 177 I'm looking for Alexander Viktorovich. [[12:24:14]] For-50 And Mr. Kostintin Eduardovich. [[12:24:32]] For-31 So, dear fellows, we are now moving on to the final vote. And the first vote will be the vote of the Fartushki Mikola Vyvoldovitch, and in the process of the rating vote, he won 356 votes, i.e. the largest. I'm voting on the proposal to elect a member of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting of the Fartuční Mikola Allevoldovich. [[12:25:15.]] For 362 The farmer is elected as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. In second place, show me, please, there's a Fartuchy. Please come up and let everyone see you. We'll welcome you later when we're all done. The next vote will be put to the vote by Irina Volodymyrna's Ph.D., who received 348 votes in the process of voting. I am voting on the proposal to elect a member of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Opilat Irina Volodymyrovna. [[12:26:15]] For 249 He is elected as a member of the National Television and Radio Board of the Opilat Irina Volodymyrna. Please, I now put to the vote, now Yelmanova Oksana Mikolayivna, who received the support of 248 national deputies in the process of voting. I propose to vote the election of Yelman Oksana Mikolayivna as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. [[12:27:07]] For the 250. Yelmanova Oksana Mikolayevna is elected as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Yeah, who's next? Now the vote is coming. Now, honourable colleagues, 245 votes in the voting process were won by Baranov Eugene Valeriovich. I am voting for Baranov Eugene Valeriovich to be elected as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. [[12:27:58]] For 249 Baranov is elected as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Thus, respected colleagues, members of the National Television and Radio Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been elected: Fartušní Mikola Vševodovitch. Now, now, I'm by the number of votes. Yelmanova Oksana Mikolayevna, Baranov Evgen Valeriyovich and Opilat Irina Volodymyrna Let us now welcome the members of the National Council and wish them to act in strict compliance with the law [[Applause]] Please, Your Honor, let us exchange our thoughts from factions about the vote that has just taken place. Oleg Lazko, please, just a minute from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u55	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think we should welcome not only the newly elected members of Nacrada, but also the head of Valery Horoshkowski's Air Force. After all, three of the four chosen are his representatives. Plus the ones they already have in the Council are two, and the five of the eight members of the Board are controlled by the head of Horoshkovsky’s SBA, the special service, the mediumamagnat, and so on. Now they're going to issue licenses to opposition channels, they're going to be freedom of speech, as a member of the ruling coalition said, support, etc. And rhetorical, after the vote, is the question to coalition representatives: where was your promise to vote for people by principle, not by political preference? Why are there no opposition representatives among the chosen? This is the freedom of speech in the country from the Party of Regions and today’s authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u56	Irina Heratchenko, please microphone. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u57	I'm sorry, dear coalition colleagues, but you've just shown the whole country an example that now in Ukraine you just have to be born in the right family, have the right brother, the right mate, and then you'll be a member of the National Television and Radio Council. You voted in favour of two people who didn't fit the principles of working in this organization, they don't even have the qualifications. And so your vote is a spit in the face, not of opposition, but of the public organizations that broadcast professional television sets. It's basically your spit in the face to all the radios and television sets in the country. And a special welcome is to convey to Mr. Kolesnik, Ahmet to others your oligarchs who have television channels and will now stand in line with Horoshkovsky, asking him to cut their licenses, and to conduct themselves properly. Here's what you actually did. There was no such thing as shame even in Kuchma. What I'm saying is that our faction voted in favour of Fartushan's professional, if that's a professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u58	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, she is happy that the number 350 has been on the board lately. That said, 340 votes said that the de facto healthy MPs in Parliament were more than the constitutional majority. You're looking at two candidates for the Opilat, and 348 and 356 deputies voted for the Fartuschny. This indicates that 50 per cent of the elected candidates were supported both in the left and right parts of the room, both in the Litvina Block and in the Timoshenko Block and in the Compartija and in the Ukraine Party of the Regions, yes. It is very democratic and it is that we have chosen the right candidates who will be able to provide serious work and enable the media to become the fourth independent branch of government, which will not serve someone's political interests, but will indeed work objectively for the State. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u60	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u61	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have taken a decision today and the coalition is responsible for organizing the National Council for Television and Radio. I have no doubt that we, and at least our representative, will be objective in taking a decision on the development and improvement of the information space. Excluding the possibility of monopolizing information space, as the orange team had done before. And they were silent, silent, when they also decided not to pay any attention to the proposals to form the National Council for Television and Radio. It was essentially an open case for Yushchenko, for his head of secretariat, for some parts of the nationalist orientation, etc. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I believe that we must continue to show our coherence in the responsibility of organizing the National Council. I don't doubt that. I want to emphasize again. That our representative will work in accordance with the interests of the State and our constituents in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u62	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, what happened -- there was a vote. I think that now we need to focus our attention on all the people's deputies, in this case, really, regardless of party and factional affiliation, so that the National Council becomes, indeed, an organ, as they say, a more holy Pope of Rome, because these arguments and mutual accusations, obviously, about the past compositions of the National Council, have some basis. And so I think right now, I repeat myself on purpose, we need to focus on this being a completely transparent body that would be controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this case in its quota. And that's what all deputies can do, no matter where they sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the issues. I make one suggestion to all concerned. You, dear colleagues, please see how the vote took place, who was with whom and what they had arranged, regardless of what was in opposition, and what was in the coalition. When necessary, we agreed. Look at those 350 votes. Dear colleagues, we turn to the section “Review of laws with proposals by the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import into Ukraine, Customs Treatment and Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport imported by Citizens into Customs Territory of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 31.03. 2010 Reported by the Deputy Finance Minister, Jefimenko Tetjan Ivanovna. The head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, will report. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, let's not waste time, we'll make a decision about the withdrawal, the rejection, this bill, based on what we sent to the President while we were looking at the veto, in another bill we took these rules into account exactly. So we can't write two laws from one question. So, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I ask you to put to the vote a motion for rejecting the bill, withdrawing it because it has already been included in another bill that has become law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u66	Aunt Ivanovna, do you share this point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u67	Yeah, I share that point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u68	Well, then, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal to repeal the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import, Transfer to Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport are transferred by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:37:06]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you. Please sit down. I would like to announce the Ukrainian Act on Legal and Regulatory Acts with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 22.12.2009. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Correspondent is the head of the Legal Policy Committee's subcommittee, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u69	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I won't take up much of your time, and a combination in one person's speech, both from the President, and from the committee, will save you a lot of time. Which is regulated by this pervasive bill on legislation. You know, a lot of subjects in authority issue their own rules, which are called law enforcement. It's very often a situation where these legal acts conflict with each other. Under the Constitution of Ukraine, only the Basic Law exists. Preferentials of the C. c. in those cases where there are collegiates of laws. What does this bill regulate? It gives us a clear understanding and a process of drafting a legal instrument, and the process of its adoption, and the hierarchy of legal acts, and the resolution of those conflicting situations that are associated with the commissions in different legal acts. In addition, the procedure and the fixation, the preservation of registration of laws and other legal acts are also subject to the regulation of this law. What was the reason for the Ukrainian president’s promise of the bill? After all, he offered several times in the Supreme Council for consideration and was accepted. But at the same time, there were arguments that moved the President to return him to the Supreme Council with his remarks. The point is that the law itself has many standards that require further elaboration. The president drew attention to these norms, and the committee of profile, to which the president's comments came up, worked hard on this and made its proposals in the form of a table that, taking into account the president's comments, would allow for the adoption of this law. At the same time, there are rules in this bill that the President has not paid attention to, but that require further work. So there are two ways in which the Supreme Council is considering this bill. First, we take into account the president's remarks and we pass the law. There's another way: we're sending this bill to the profile committee, and he's bringing it up for consideration by the Supreme Council. I would suggest that, when choosing this route, we shorten the deadline for preparing these proposals and, for example, next week, we will consider the table proposed by the committee, thus addressing all issues related and controversial, including the adoption of this bill, taking into account both the proposals and the perspective of the Ministry of Justice, and taking into account the point of view of our legal service. In this way they could pass the law in general, and the President signed it. So we're serious enough, I'd call the reform system, the standard-setting system in Ukraine, we'd actually be doing it, and we'd be doing it. Thank you for your attention. And I would probably agree, as a representative of the President, with the proposal that has already been made during the discussion, namely, to assign a profile committee to work on it and to present an agreed table for the vote in general for the next plenary week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u70	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u71	Adam Ivanovich, on the other hand, as a representative of the profile committee, I'm going to say that the committee is ready to work in this mode. We can hold a committee meeting tomorrow. The experts have prepared all the proposals so that when we complete the procedure, we can pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u72	Yes. Dear colleagues, we will follow the Rules. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the bill on legislation. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:43:36]] For 215 Not supported. Who's in charge of coming back? Who in favour of returning to the vote on this bill, please vote. [[12:44:06]] For 231 I'm voting on the proposal, the President's proposal to reject the bill. Please vote. [[12:44:31]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The law is necessary, but the President, the truth is that the previous President has made as many as 50 remarks to this bill. The absolute majority of the comments made by the previous President were not taken into account by the committee. And I think we did the right thing by rejecting, clearing, sorry, the way to actually write and adopt the law that is necessary to settle these relationships. So please, please, work on this law. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving State Regulations in the Field of Housing is being considered, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 5 June 2010. [[Registration number 2464]] He reports as President of the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Get ready for the Klimenko Committee, please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u73	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, Representative of the President of the Supreme Council. Dear National Deputies! On May 11, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted, by 288 votes in second reading, the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine [[on improving the state settlement in the area of housing construction]] The Head of State expressed his appreciation for the document, which he believed would enhance the protection of the rights of citizens of housing investors, increase the responsibility of builders and financial institutions of managers, significantly reduce the likelihood of financial abuses in housing and investment that would contribute to the stability of the situation in the primary housing market. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's act of legislation provides for the addition of article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on the Planning and Construction of Territory to a new part of such content. “For obtaining a permit to carry out construction works, foreign legal persons, in addition to the documents provided for in part three of this article, shall submit documents confirming the involvement of citizens and legal persons of Ukraine in the construction and assembly work of not less than 90 per cent of their total volume, as well as the use of at least 50 per cent of their domestic products and materials, including construction works.” Thus, foreign legal persons are actually obliged to engage in the construction work of citizens, legal persons of Ukraine and to use domestic construction structures, other products and materials in the legal scope. Of course, the State must take steps to support a domestic producer of goods and services, such as the construction industry. In general, this is one of the priorities of economic policy in Ukraine, and the state of this sector depends on the implementation of the rights of citizens to housing guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, it must be understood that the measures that can be taken should not violate the country’s international obligations. And that's what happened in this case. Because this standard is contrary to the commitments made by Ukraine at the time of its entry into WTO. In particular, Article 3 of Part Two of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade has been violated. Thus, paragraph 1 of the first article defines that internal taxes and other internal congregations and laws, regulations and requirements relating to domestic sales, offers for sale, purchases, and rules of internal quantitative regulation that set requirements for mixing, processing or use of goods in certain quantities or proportions should not apply to imported or domestic goods in such a way as to protect domestic production. Paragraph 5 of Article 3 prohibits the setting up or application of quantitative regulations on mixing, processing, or use of goods from domestic sources. In addition, article 17 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services provides that each member of the WTO shall provide services and service providers of any other member of the WTO with no less favourable treatment than that provided by that member of the WTO to the same domestic service or service providers. It should also be noted that an integral part of the Protocol on Ukraine's Entry into the World Trade Organization, ratified by the Ukrainian Law of 10 April 2008, number 250-6 under article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine is part of Ukraine's national legislation, is a schedule of specific obligations in the services sector, which is added to the General Agreement on Trade in Services which applies to Ukraine. There are no warnings on the possibility of Ukraine imposing any restrictions on market access or restrictions on the application of the national regime in the area of construction and adjacent engineering services. Under such circumstances, additional requirements for use are introduced. To carry out construction work by foreign legal persons does not meet Ukraine’s international obligations, it will then lead to a violation of article 18 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Taking into account what the President of Ukraine has taught, he proposes to refrain from introducing additional requirements for the execution of construction works by foreign legal persons and proposed in paragraph 1 of section 1 of section 1 of the First Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of State regulations in the area of construction, that paragraph 3 should be deleted. In relation to these paragraphs, the first and last subparagraphs should be inserted accordingly: Article 29, paragraph 1, after the third part, to complete a new part of such content; [[Semicolon]] Keep going. In relation to this part of the fourth to twenty, consider parts of the fifth to twenty to be the first. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u74	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. You've been saying for almost 10 minutes what's said here in two words. From the Committee on Finance and Banking, please, Alexander Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national MPs, who were supported by 270 people's deputies, really regulates very important issues that will primarily contribute to the development of not only the construction sector but, in general, all sectors that will be identical, which will ensure the right level of conditions and the preservation of jobs. Of course, the working group that worked with our Committee on Finance and Banking, I would like to thank those national MPs who are present in this room as well as representatives of the Ministry of Construction and Architecture and Development for their fruitful work and fruitful cooperation. I would like to point out that the bill was the first time that we made decisions by the majority of the people's deputies, we were guided by those standards that were primarily applied to job security. And that's why those standards for individuals, legal persons at the level of building work, 90 percent of them, of course, that, in our opinion, this would be the first thing that could boost the labour market and the very involvement of our Ukrainian producers. That standard, which applies to 50 percent of building materials that are also produced in Ukraine, we think was also very appropriate. But the President of Ukraine's proposals, which only apply to the rules of the signed trade agreements for the World Trade Organization, certainly deserve respect and that we must respect them and support the President of Ukraine, because Ukraine is integrated into the World Trade Organization, and when we have undertaken to cooperate with the World Trade Organization and to acquire Ukraine all the norms that apply to the relevant acts carried out. Our committee at its meeting on 16 June decided to support the President's proposals and to take them into account in our vote. I would like to thank you not only for your cooperation with the President, but, above all, that we will be guided by the relevant normative acts that will help the building industry to achieve sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no discussion. Construction. Well, you do, and you don't have the Rules, so you don't. I'm voting on the President's proposal, supported by the Special Committee. Once again, the point of the proposal is to delete paragraph 1 in article 10. So, please, I'm voting to support the President's proposal for Law No.2464. Please vote. [[12:55:28]] For 241 The law was passed taking into account the President's proposal. Dear colleagues, there's no such thing in the Rules, but whoever wants, sign up from factions, per minute. Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u77	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine”. Dear National Deputies! We're on our way. I voted against the President's proposals because in this law we have foreseen some features of our "budget pie". So we talked about who can build roads, do reconstructions, train tracks, power lines, connections, and so on. You're going to move into the country, you're going to go to the United States, you're going to see that you have and you're going to move there exclusively, if at the expense of the budget, by state companies and so on. And that doesn't bother them. They don't have a president asking questions about the removal of these standards. So these are now being removed against the Ukrainian manufacturer, and I think it's completely wrong to make a decision right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u78	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Democracy is a clear implementation of all procedures. I think that, according to the procedure, everything has been carried out and that it is absolutely right to vote. Another question that someone likes, someone doesn't like, someone's proposal is gone, someone's gone -- well, probably the wrong arguments were made, and more likely the argument was on the side of the decision. I therefore suggest that we not delay the process, as very many serious bills are to be passed so that we continue to work dynamically and further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u80	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u81	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. I'd like that. that everyone who listens to us today and watches may know what the coalition has voted for, and the carcasses that have passed over to her. It's about the fact that a bill has been passed that doesn't take into account the crisis in the world and in Ukraine, which doesn't take into account the elements of protectionism to its own manufacturer, the elements are not very large, the Ukrainian budget will now be distributed to China, India, Pakistan, other countries that provide extremely cheap labour, thereby killing the construction industry, as well as the Ukrainian builders. So when the committee head and others talk about what it will do to harmonise the construction sector, it's going to get the rest of the building industry in Ukraine. And I guarantee you that the Turkish builders who are building our roads today will be building housing, other buildings tomorrow, and the Ukrainians will, if you will excuse me, be on the Employment Fund grants and will be going abroad where no one is taking them with open arms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u82	Thank you. Discussion. I mean, from the voting procedure, we said. Let's get back to work. We have to look at it now. should consider the draft Decree on certain issues of ensuring the implementation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. It's about the honorary colleagues that we adopted about a month ago, this two-pronged decision. In the first reading, it is unfortunate that the committee of the profile has not yet considered this provision. So at the committee's request, let's do this and vote: to have the committee consider it tomorrow, and on Thursday we'll have it. Let us go back to the matter. If the committee is not ready by Thursday in accordance with the relevant articles of the Rules, if the committee does not conclude within a month, we have the right to vote in the first edition. So I would like to vote on the transfer of the question number 5397 to Thursday. [[13:00:21]] For 227 A decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, we now have to consider with you a package of laws that relate to the electoral process, namely the holding of elections to the local authorities. A whole group of these bills. There's this proposal, the honourable colleagues, those bills that contain 100 or more articles to report on the full program, and those that are less articles to be considered by the simplified procedure. First, we'll listen to the reports of all the drafters of the bill, then we'll have a decision of the committee concerned, we'll have a discussion, we'll have a vote, and we'll have a separate bill. Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u84	Thank you, Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Among these two bills, these are new texts, these are 2270-2 and 5426, these are really minor changes. And that's why I think these two just have to look at each other separately, the ones that give a new version of the law, because there's a lot of changes, not individual elements. And these little things can really be discussed together, because they relate to different things, but they need to be separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u85	So the same proposal goes, Yuri Bogdanovich, that where more than 100 articles are reports, questions, full-procedure reports, and those bills, where less than 100 articles, that is, with the exception of two of these bills, we will consider the report and the summary report. We're going to have a discussion together, and we're going to have a separate vote. Is there no objection? I will put to the vote such a proposal that we draft bills that number more than 100 articles to report and co-report in full procedure, answer questions to the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur, to those bills that are less than 100 articles to make the report and report shorter. We'll discuss all the bills together, vote individually, please support. [[13:03:19]] For 236 Decision taken. I remind my honourable colleagues that 120 drafts are being considered this week and there was a proposal for us to make a decision that we will work every day until the issue is resolved. But unfortunately, as the voting practice has shown, there is no positive one, so there is no need to be indignant. And sit back and work. The draft laws are announced for consideration: 2270-2, 2070, 5426, 5448, 2271, 2544, 3293, 4185, 4237, 5098, 5549, 6128. Let's start with draft Law 2270-2. Reporter. Here's the full report to go as we agreed with you, and the report. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Kaskov Vladislav, co-reporter Sergey Podgorny. Is it Kaskiv? Please, then, let us ask the co-rapporteur to speak. What are the other drafts of Yuri Bogdanovich, after which? 5426, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u86	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on February 10, 2010, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Kaskov. [[Registration number 2270-2]] The project proposes the adoption of legislation in a new edition and the establishment of a majority majority majority majority majority majority majority voting system in the election of regional and district council deputies. I would like to emphasize, with an undetermined number of mandates. In the elections of rural, rural, rural, rural, district, city councils, councillors of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the establishment of a majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority electoral system. In conclusion, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues concluded that the project does not fully meet the requirements of current budgetary legislation. In particular, it contains positions that increase the spending of both government and local budgets, taking into account the standards of article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. The committee stresses that if the bill is adopted, it may take effect no later than 1 January 2011, subject to its official publication by 15 August 2010. Otherwise, the bill may not apply until 1 January 2012. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with a number of comments to the bill. However, he believes that the first reading of the bill can provide a basis for taking into account management’s comments. During the discussion at a meeting of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule did not agree on the conclusion of the bill. Of the 8 present members of the committee, 1 national MP was held in the vote, and the rest of the national deputies were not voting. As a result, the committee decided on a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, to submit a final decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Presented by the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, Kaskiev]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u87	Is there a question? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u88	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The honourable reporter, please state that this bill provides for the right of NGOs to nominate their candidates, particularly national minorities, since article 14 of the National Minorities Act clearly states that national minorities through their organizations have the right to nominate candidates to local authorities. The law was adopted before the entry into force of the Constitution, so article 22 of the Constitution does not allow restrictions on existing rights and freedoms. So the question is, is it allowed non-governmental organizations to place their candidates at the local level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u89	The author of the bill did not grant the organizations of national minorities the right to nominate their candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u90	Vladimir Bondarenko, please. BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u91	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Block of Yulia Timoshenko” Party “Reforms and Orders”. I want to say that in society and in politics, there is an active debate about whether they can participate in local block elections or whether there could be name blocks or whether there might be a system that forbids new parties that have just created their lists or candidates in local elections, or whether a change in the name of the party will not result in a refusal to register it. How these issues are dealt with in Mr. Kaskov's bill and whether they are being considered at all. Because I feel like there's going to be a bill that's going to be actively supported by the Party of Regions, and it's obviously there now. And they already know what rules the elections are going to be, and everyone else is just guessing. So today we are obviously going to be given a pack of bills that are destined not to be approved, and that one will be passed later. Don't you think this policy is going on today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u92	Well, I don't know if I should talk today about what I feel about preparing for the local council's future election. I just want to say that, in fact, society welcomes the idea that there's a bill going somewhere, and there's a bill in it, really, if the political party blocks were to be banned. And we all understand why this is being done. The bill does not provide any new introductions to the participation of the block or other subjects of the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u93	Yes, all questions are answered. Have a seat. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, other bills contain less than 100 articles, so we consider them as a reduced procedure. So now we're going to report on Bill 2070, Kmenyash Alexander Mikhajlovich. Is there Alexander Mikhailovich Kemenyash? None. Please, then, from the committee, Sergey Petrovich. Please. And the workman isn't, is he?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u94	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government on 14 May 2008, at its meeting, discussed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kemenyash Alexander. [[on increasing the responsibilities of members of electoral commissions]] [[Registration number 2070 from February 14, 2008]] The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, and to supplement it with the oath-making of members of the territorial and district election committees. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considers it possible to recommend a draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the bill does not affect the income and expenditure of the budget, as well as its implementation during the current budget period, the budget period. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. In view of the fact that the draft law is being tabled for the purpose of unifying electoral legislation, the committee concluded that it should be recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering the bill in the first reading to accept it as a basis. I will explain that we have a procedure in the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies when members of the electoral boards take office by taking an oath. This is the innovation proposed by Deputy Kemenyash and the Law on Elections of Local Councils, as well as Rural, Village, and Urban Heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u95	Thank you. Please sit down. Then the next bill, 5426. A workman? You don't? Then, Sergey Petrovich, are you also in charge of this bill? The committee's decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u96	The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 10 February 2010 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads. [[concerning the introduction to the MPs of open lists in local elections]] Registration number 5426, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Krill and Orobec. The project includes the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads on the basis of the nomination of candidates for open electoral lists of local organizations, parties and their blocs. This is the wording of the authors. According to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, the implementation of the bill will require additional expenditure from the state and local budgets. In particular, for the production of printed election campaign materials, as a result of an increase in the maximum number of candidates from each party, block, etc. Therefore, the Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the bill would have an impact on the spending of budgets by increasing it. It could be. become effective under the conditions of official publication by 15 August 2010 at the latest on 1 January 2011. Otherwise, it's not until January 1, 2012. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the bill, emphasises that a number of conceptual flaws in the draft make them generally unusable for practical application, which, according to the management, makes it appropriate to reject the bill in the first reading. During the discussion at the meeting of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, a decision was taken unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u98	recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Law on the Election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads as a result of the first reading to reject. [[concerning the introduction to the MPs of open lists in local elections]] [[Registration number 5426]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u99	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Now with the introduction of Bill 5448, Ruslan Knyazevich is a reporter. And then, Sergey Petrovich, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u100	So when we talk about it, the report is now going through the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u101	Dear Head, my fellow Members, in fact the bill I am now presenting, on December 17, 2009 registered, was the first such instantaneous reaction to the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the corresponding terms of appointment of deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. What is it? The point is that the 1996 Constitution of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime refers to the question of the appointment of alternate and alternate deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. But after the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, and at the time of its adoption, I remind you that there were two separate laws under which. One was elected by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and another by law was elected by other local authorities. At the same time, during the election campaign of 98 C.E., for the first time, the Supreme Council decided to unite the election in one law to both the Supreme Council of Crimea and all the local authorities. And given these circumstances, it is perfectly logical that the successive elections and self-government bodies, and the Supreme Council of Crimea, as they are organized under one law, should be appointed on one date. In view of the fact that, according to practice, last year, there was a situation in which you recall that the Supreme Council appointed, on a certain date, the elections of the respective rural, rural, urban and organ heads and corresponding councils of all levels, but the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, not agreeing to such an unconstitutional decision, refused to implement the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament to take a constitutional decision on the date of the elections of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, instead referred to the Constitutional Court. And as a result, the court has determined that it is impossible to set a specific election date for Ukraine because it goes beyond its jurisdiction. So this law, this is an attempt to settle this question in which plane, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u102	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u103	We don't define a clear date on which they should appoint elections, we're talking about their mandate to appoint elections, but they should be assigned to a date on which Parliament has already appointed local elections so that we don't have two dates to hold another election. This is an open question, because as long as the amendments to the Constitution are being made, and we are trying to regulate in that bill, which we have jointly referred to the Constitutional Court, this issue has not been resolved, it is at the legislative level that this gap, as for me, must be settled so as not to go back to the sad practice that was in Ukraine last year. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u104	Thank you. So now Bill 2271, the author. Huh?Oh, my God! From the committee, I'm sorry. Sergey Petrovich Undergraduate on Bill 5448. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u105	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 23 December 2009 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Mishchenko and Knazevč. [[on co-existence]] [[Registration number 5448]] The aim of the project is to bring together, at the same time, the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with the election of deputies of local councils and rural, village, city heads, which the authors believe will allow to reduce the costs of the State budget for the electoral campaign. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, in its conclusion to the bill, notes that its position does not contain signs of unconstitutionality, so the bill can be recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues believes that holding the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea at the same time as the election of the deputies of the local councils and rural, village, city heads will result in a reduction in the expenditure of the State and local budgets, so the bill can take effect on the day of its publication. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after reviewing the draft law, proposes that the first reading reject the draft law. During the discussion at the National Deputies meeting, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, as a result of the first reading to be considered as a basis. [[No. 5448]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u106	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we are currently considering Bill 2271. At the same time, the author of the bill, Valérie Pisarenko, wrote a letter of appeal. We need to put on. vote. Then, dear fellows, may I have your attention? We must now vote in favour of the request of the Ukrainian National MP to withdraw the draft law, registration number 2271. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the motion to withdraw the draft Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the right to be elected rural, rural, urban head]] Registration number 2271, please vote. [[13:24:02]] For 239. Decision taken, bill withdrawn. [[Yeah, maybe we'll do it. Here comes the reporter, Alexander Omelchenko]] . Now, honourable colleagues, the bill, registration number 2544, on amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils, Rural, Village, Urban Heads is being announced. [[language]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich. None. He's a reporter. The committee did not consider it, but it did. I had to look into it by now. Then we'll vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What if the committee does not perform its functions? Dear colleagues, there will be no one to persuade. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Let's put it this way: I'll put a vote on acceptance as a basis, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, then it will be removed. You can't go like that. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads is now under review. [[on the implementation of the right of national public associations to nominate their candidates]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Feldman. You don't? You can't. Next. Bill No. 4185 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the selection of urban heads in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants in two rounds]] The reporter is Kirilo Kulikov. Is it? None. So it's the next bill. 4237 – amending article 88 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on informing voters about candidates' violations]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal. Please, Hennadia Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if possible on short notice, because I know that Mr. Chechtev has all the same minus, so he's not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u108	That's how we've made our decision, Gennady Hennadiovich. We've already made up our minds: by the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, what is it? I'll literally tell you what the novelty of this bill is at that time. No matter what happens after the trial, with the compromising materials, the third, the tenth, and the twentieth things we do have are already waving their hands after the fight took place after the election took place. So there are compromising materials, let the internal organs prove this to the electorate before the election. If the candidate thinks he's someone, let's say he's been slandered, he's entitled to go to court, and the voters need to know who they're choosing. He had a case, he had some other compromising material, if they were, they shouldn't appear to be competing political parties or competing candidates, and they should come out of the internal affairs offices officially through the press. If it is a civil order and it is taken from European legislation, it is done in all civilized countries, not at night, that they throw different slanders, brochures, and so forth into each other’s boxes. So, honourable national MPs, you're about to make your own choices.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u110	Yeah, you got everything? Hennady Hennadiovich, please sit down. When we're done, we're in the process, I'll remember that you have a replica, Mikhailo Vasilovich. Bill 5098, amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. National Deputy of Ukraine Ivanenko Vladimir Grigorovich Is there a Vladimir Grigorovich? Please. Sergey Podgorny will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u111	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to amend paragraph 1, part 1, article 38 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Election of People’s Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils of Rural, Rural, Urban Heads”. Having foreseen that a candidate for a rural, rural, urban head should be included in the application for registration of candidates for an appropriate position of commitment in the event of the first election by a rural, rural, urban head during the first year after the official publication of the results of the election, professional training should take place. The purpose of the proposed project is to increase the professionalism and competence of the main officials of the territorial community. In our view, the implementation of the bill will contribute to better meeting the needs of the territorial community, effectively exercising the authority of local self-government in general, and empowering rural, rural and urban heads in particular. The findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority contain a number of observations that we agree with. First of all, the responsibility of the rural, rural, urban head to receive vocational training should be recommended in the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government. Instead, the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads are not worthwhile. Since such training does not have a direct bearing on the electoral process, it is linked to the registration of the chosen rural, rural, urban head and his entry into office. For the same reasons, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government proposes to reject the bill, but also the committee, and the Scientific and Experimental Administrations support the idea of such training. So I have an offer to return this bill to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u112	Please, mike, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u113	I propose that the bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u114	That's how we need it. Please, the committee's decision then. Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, first of all, I would like to take note of those bills that the committee has not considered. The thing is, some of them were in the agenda of a previous meeting. But the authors didn't come and write a letter that we ask not to look at without us, so Sir Feldman did, and that's why we haven't considered it. With regard to the bill, the committee considered it on June 9, 2010. It is believed that the project aims to increase the professional skills and competence of the main officials of the territorial community and includes proposals for the commitment of newly elected rural, rural, urban heads to professional training during the first year of office. According to the author, it will help to provide the local communities with competent managers. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, in its conclusion to the bill, noted that the introduction of compulsory vocational training for the first-ever rural, rural, urban heads should be provided at the expense of the appropriate local budgets. That is, it may need additional funds during the budget period, which will have a direct impact on the spending of local budgets. And given what has been said, the Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the bill will have a direct impact on the spending of local budgets. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus concluded that a number of comments were made to the bill and that the results of the first reading were to be rejected. During the discussion at a meeting of the National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law “On the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, submitted by the People’s Deputy of Ivanenko following a first reading rejection. [[Registration number 5098]] At the same time, the committee sent a letter to the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u116	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u117	the proposal to make appropriate provisions to the draft Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. Since such training is not directly related to the electoral process or to the registration of the chosen rural, rural, urban, and post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Now the bill, registration number 5549. Kirilo Kulikov, no. Let's put it to a vote. 6128 is the same, Mikola Volodymyrovich, on a fixed-term mission. Dear colleagues! Now let's move on to the bill discussion. The first bill is being discussed in full procedure, and all the others are being cut short. Please sign up for the factions if you do. No, we are now discussing Bill 2270 in full procedure, and everyone else will be discussed in short: two in pros, two in pros, and two in pros and cons. It's 2270-2. If the faction wants to speak, please sign in. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs. Ivan Popescu, the faction of the Party of the Regions and Vladimir Bondarenko will speak for him. Was that the last one? Now we're going to cancel it. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, please, then Gayman. Well, please, Bondarenko, it means Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u119	I'll start with a line. You know, of course, when the warlord general, the head of the Ministry of the Interior, led the Crimea police, went to the rostrum, reported the bill and said, "I don't think my bill will be accepted," yes. Of course, who's gonna vote for him? Well, who if a warlord general is reporting his bill and he's afraid they won't accept it? And we wanted to accept it, and now we're done! Be sure, yes! If the General doesn't believe in his child, the General of War! - How can we attack, how can we lead the fighters?Oh, my God! By the way, there are no more fighters, yeah! That's the line. Now, basically. When we went to the elections, I mean, to all of us, when we went to the elections of the political forces and led our leaders to the presidential office, it is likely that all the leaders, all the presidential candidates in all areas, the regions of our electorates, regardless of the political forces and parties, will be ordered: that these elections be conducted in a completely different manner, so that people will not be misled, that they will not be misled into allowing people themselves to identify specific candidates who will work in particular territory, respond to people, live in these territories and with people to solve the problems of regions, villages, towns, cities and areas. And when there was an elected company, none of the candidates then gave up and said no, we didn't give you a chain, we put someone on the party lists and vote for a bag loaded with misunderstandings by whom, MPs, who after the mice ran away, or like rats from a sinking ship. Nobody dared to say now, and when it's over now, they've started saying, you know, don't, we're not gonna give people another chance, we don't trust voters, the voters might be wrong, we're gonna see what's going on here from Kiev in a village, a village, we're going to trade bags with candidates. Therefore, we feel that we cannot deceive people. And in our view, in a large way, it is necessary for all those who have passed bills today, including those that we are currently considering, to say thank you for having raised some problems, but a more robust system will be introduced by a bill literally tomorrow, and we will take your proposals into account in the second reading procedure, and we will bury the lie, and we will tell people the truth and give people the opportunity to choose specific candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u120	Vladimir Bondarenko, from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, next will be Sergey Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u121	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. I agree with the previous speaker in some ways. Especially when it comes to running rats, but who's going to take them in with 300 votes here, well, you know me better. So those rats that ran out there, from one ship or another, they're rats, and they're going to run out the next time, too, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u122	Rats, yeah, rats, well, Michael said yes, I'm already underlining. That's why these rats are rats -- it's open, we agree with that. But if the first rat that appeared here was hit on the head and returned to the law that forbids changing political orientation on the move, their people would choose not here to run, but to be in the political power that people voted for, then everything would be fine. And everything was done to make the first rat feel unpunished, and then others ran. But it can be with you, it will be soon, don't be afraid. I would like to point out that electoral legislation is unfortunately not codified in Ukraine today. Including the example of how to manipulate legislation, showed the former vice-speaker, the first vice-speaker of the Supreme Council of the Regions, today's Justice Minister Lavrinovich, who in the last days without a table, without anything in this room passed the law, which allowed the vote to be manipulated by voters, gave the opportunity to vote in a million with only a million people at home. They didn't vote. They were voted for. It allowed the entire caravans to be driven around Ukraine by those who voted several times, and so the result of 3 percent of the breakup was made exclusively by electoral legislation. I didn't want the local elections to repeat the adventures of the Party of Regions that were in their own time worked in Donetsk and Lugansk and then in all of Ukraine and now again someone wants to repeat them. I point out that legislation is really classified today. The date of the election was determined by Mr. Ljováckin, who said when they would be, not the Supreme Council, how it should be done by law. And the law will be determined, not by the Supreme Council. We will not know until the last day that this law will be. All of this is done to prevent the election of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. First, everything will be done so that there are no blocks. But other people in the bloc today should think about how we're going to get out of this election. Everything will be done to ensure that those new political brands that arise on the basis of the blocks are not allowed to vote. Everything will be done to remove all rating candidates and courts in the judicial system, and today the courts are under control of the Higher Council of Justice, which is made up of only the actual representatives of the Party of Regions and other members of the coalition. So we have today a completely massive preparation for falsifying the local elections in Ukraine, which of the authors' designs should give them an advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u123	Sergey Greenewecki, the "Block of Lithuania" faction, will be followed by Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u124	As I consider local self - government, particularly the electoral system, it seems to me that we have come to the point where it is fitting to remind one saying that flies are easily likable to spiders. If I enter the constitutional field, I would like to remind all of us. Article 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine makes it quite clear that local self-government is the right of the territorial community, - and continues to explain - the inhabitants of a village or voluntary union in a rural community, the inhabitants of several villages, villages and cities to decide for themselves the issue of local importance within the framework of the Constitution and laws. Unfortunately, all attempts to turn to common sense, to the decisions of the Venice Commission, to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, they did not find support in the Supreme Council. Over the past 15 years, you and I have tested several models of local council elections, beginning with the majority, ending with closed party lists. And they all turned out to be ineffective. Ineffective Why? Because there was, in principle, no solved issue, no fundamental issue of ownership, no property that the territorial community could own and manage, and no decentralization of budgetary resources. In recent times, we've all been talking about the need for this decentralization. And I would like to remind you that this year is 25 years old since the European Charter of Local Self-Government was adopted. And by the way, we ratified it in 1997. So what I'd like to say is that the Charter itself speaks of the essence of local self-government, which is the right and the ability of self-government bodies within the framework of the law to regulate and manage a substantial part of the social rights that belong to their competence in the interests of the local population. I would like to draw attention to another point, the same constitutional rule that contains the essence of district and district councils: the local self-government bodies representing the common interests of the territorial communities, villages, villages and cities are district and district councils. This tells us that by building a model of the electoral system to local self-government, we should first go back to the Constitution of Ukraine, to those recommendations that came to us from the Venice Commission, and most of all to common sense, because constitutional changes are aimed at creating an effective local one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u125	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u126	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! We're looking at a picture that we've already seen. It's the same thing that happened at the time of the adoption of the Tax Code. Again, all changes to the Law on the Election of Local Councils have been brought together. Once again, we're looking at some of them in short, some of them in full measure. It was said that 100 articles were available. But how many articles can we talk about laws? Obviously not. Target, target known, understood. Today it is expressed from this rostrum by a representative of the Party of Regions, the ruling party. He said we were going to introduce a more ambitious project. It doesn't fit the bill of our colleague of the national deputy Kaskiwa, who, for example, I support 70 percent in the way that it can be worked out. I don't agree with that. And with signed letters that require at least 3 percent of the voters. For Odessa it's 30,000, for Kiev it's 65,000 signatures. I don't know if that's necessary, let's say. But the fact that it's now a task just to destroy the bills and seriously not to speak on them is saying again that the society that's in the Tax Code and so on can be so determined today by the fear that you've caused by the adoption, and business is all in the same syndrome, it says that we're not taking seriously how we're going to do and what we're going to do in these elections. Instead, there are schemes that the coalition is now running in Kiev, where you've replaced local self-government with the right to appoint your governor, who has defined rights, who will absolutely care about what the local community will determine. If you want to build such a project, I'll remind you that the Rules of Procedure Act does not allow you to consider a bill that has failed. And what you've done now under the Tax Code is you've committed a violation of the law, Your Honor. And that's why the Sudokus Act needs to be done differently. So on this smoke screen, I want to say that the bill proposed by colleague Kaskiv 2270 with badge 2 has its own pluses -- it's also a major system relative to most of it, it's a party centre for party candidates in all of the elections, it's another plus. I ask you to vote for him in the first reading. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection to putting a bill to the vote? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft law. Does Kaskiv have one? Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please. Just a few minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you not to be indignant because we have a complex organizational process. I'm going to make a very brief statement on this point. There is no policy in this initiative. There's a simple and understandable logic that I think has already mastered this hall, that local councils actually generate all social processes, including political processes at the highest level. Local councils should be shaped, not by a political principle, but by the principle of representation and territorial communities. That bill, which was presented by my authorship and developed by an entire group of experts, actually takes into account all the social, acute, relevant issues that apply to the Local Elections Act and local self-government in general. I believe that any step towards democratisation of this process, and in particular, which contains the basic idea of representing territorial communities in local councils, should be supported by this Parliament, because it leads to the implementation of those principles that are included in the programme of all political parties. I'd like to support him. All those nuances that were expressed during the discussion both within and outside the committee can be taken into account in the second reading. The quality of the law is very high, I emphasize once again, not because I'm the author of it, but because it was being worked on by better professionals, who are represented both in political environments and in international expert groups. And I think it's going to be a good foundation. We can all be proud of him, and the reaction of society will definitely be positive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[new editor]] [[13:52:16]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 102, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 36, Communists, “Litvina Block” and non-fractional – 0. Now, honourable colleagues, the bill, the author of the National Deputy Kemenyash, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[2070]] [[on increasing the responsibilities of members of electoral commissions]] Please sign up for a reduced procedure to discuss the bill. We continue the morning session for 15 minutes. If you want to speak, please. Put the names of the national MPs on the board. Sergey Podgorny. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that this bill is very valid in terms of what it suggests that members of the district commission, when they take office, make an oath. Only then do they approach their responsibilities. Believe me, this really needs to be done because we do not have this procedure in the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, unfortunately, in the Law on Local Elections of this Procedure. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on increasing the responsibilities of members of electoral commissions]] [[Registration number 2070]] [[13:54:12]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Now the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads. [[concerning the introduction to the MPs of open lists in local elections]] [[Registration number 5426]] Please sign up for a bill if there is one. Please sign up for the discussion. Well, I get it, now it's the author. Sign up, you'll be performing. Well, what's the problem? Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u132	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. The idea of opening open lists at elections and at the local level is supported when meeting with people. But by the reaction of the Hall, by the coalition, we see that discussion and voting is just a waste of time, so just like in Kharkiv in the Park of Gorsky, we've cleared our way out of the trees, so we're clearing the way for the adoption of the law that will be proposed by the coalition on elections to local councils where it will be. all the things that have been said: both 50 by 50, and the nomination of candidates in such a way as to cut off both the “Front Change” and “Strong Ukraine” and “For Ukraine!” and other party organizations that now impress voters, and everything will be done to win the local elections only by the representatives of the Party of Regions. [[50 — Majoritarian, 50 — Open Lists]] And that's why I'm surprised that there's a lot in the coalition of other named blocks, there's a name block, there's others who're just going to play in this case of the Party of Regions, and there's going to be a bill that's going to be passed in contravention of the law after all of these laws are rejected, and it's going to be put into the Supreme Council Hall and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u133	So no one insists on the performance? No, it's not. I then put to the vote the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural Urban Heads. [[concerning the introduction to the MPs of open lists in local elections]] [[13:56:55]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Now the honourable colleagues are drafting Law 54. Please, Yuri Carmazin with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to the coalition, don't you understand that your leader, your leader, has promised that there will be open lists, that the voters will somehow influence this. Now you've had the opportunity to make open lists, that's what this was about, so that the members of the same party that are on the list can compete. To avoid being followed by a single body, there would be no authoritarianism in the parties. There was this possibility now, and you didn't give a vote for it. You're showing that you don't want to go democratically, you're showing that everything will continue to be usurped in the state. It's not normal. I urge you to come to your senses and return to the promises you have made to society, including the numerous talk shows. Because that's where you say one thing, and you vote for another. That's why I voted in favour of this law, like our faction, and I'm convinced that the future is behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the draft Law 5448 are willing to discuss it? Microphone, please. Please sign up. I would ask for patience so that we can complete our consideration of these issues. Please have the names of the people's deputies on the board. Sergei Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u136	Thank you. Respectful colleagues, the rejection of this law, may cause the following situation. So imagine, we're assigning an election to the local council on October 31st, as it's planned to do now. And you know that the election to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is assigned by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, not by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then what? Then comes the next situation. What we define is this election on October 31st, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea does not determine but determines on March 2011, and no one will be able to oblige them to do so. That's why it's proposed to write down the peremptory norm that both the local councils and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea are holding at the same time, as it should be. So we can create, if we don't accept this norm, we can create that precedent that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will determine the date of the election when it wants to. Because you remember when there was a situation regarding the four or five - year term of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Deputy Corps of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea said they had a five-year term, the Supreme Council said they had a four-year-old because they had Transitional positions. And that's why I think that this rule is necessary, and we, together with the archiving of the Kniezewicz, have developed that mechanism where the Supreme Council is bound by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, if the norm is that at the same time the local elections will be scheduled for October 31st, or the date that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will determine for the local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u137	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u138	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u139	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! When Sergey Podgorny spoke from the committee, he said that there was an appropriate conclusion from the Scientific and Experimental Authority that said that the bill was somewhat contrary to the Constitution. So I want to tell you about this, in fact recently, the Constitutional Court has sent the conclusions to Parliament on the Act on Amendments to the Constitution, where in part, as regards the fact that the mandate for appointment of candidates is passed from the Crimean Supreme Council to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is not constitutional, that is, confirmed the logic of our bill. In fact, if it happens that we can't make any changes to the Constitution, and I understand it's going to be very difficult to bring them into that term that's already been declared politically for the elections, because I'm going to remind you that now we need to recast this bill, send them back to the Constitutional Court, to expect another conclusion. And if even arithmetically we understand that there is no way in this session to consider again at the beginning of the next session in 300 votes to make the final decision. Given these circumstances, the only way to settle this issue right now is to settle it, not at the constitutional level, but at the legislative level. And rather than as a result of the changes to the Law on, accordingly, the election of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea local elections, myself and my co-author, Sergei Mishchenko, do not see. So I would ask you very, very carefully, to consider this issue so that it does not happen that we have just been told that we will have a constant difference when the Crimea deputies decide for themselves when they are to be appointed. And to those who say that we can't set a date I'm saying, please read a bill, part two says that we don't take responsibility for the appointment, we're just saying that they have to set their own election date on that date.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u141	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the problem is not that each of the 12 bills we've just considered and we're voting now has some completely wrong things. The problem is that the bills themselves 12 and that each of them, except for the first ones, regulates one or the other, dot standards when the subject of regulation is the same. Clearly, there can be no systemic approach to such a situation, and there is no such situation. Therefore, it is obvious that the election to the local authorities, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to all the representative authorities must be governed by a single code of election. And the fact that this question has somehow gone awry is wrong, because any system will wear and have a conjunctural character, in infection from the distribution of political forces and depending on the political situation. A way out of this is a really electoral code, when voters know 10-15 years ahead of what system and even what date will be one or the other elections. And another thing, I think we're doing a little bit of a wasteful thing. Because not to be accepted, but the authority of local council members will remain either after October 31st or after another date, the same. That is, those powers that cannot implement their representative function, their representative mission. So it seems to me that if we went stately, we would have to change the authority of local self-government to make it a real local self-government, and then we could regulate something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u143	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Party of the Regions, all that has promised over the course of five years in opposition, we realize our coming to power, we do not differ. There has been an accusation here from the lips that I respect, the leader of the Party of Motherland Defenders, that we have promised party lists there, and now we refuse to vote. I'm sorry, party lists are a half-solution, and it's like we're letting the voters make a decision, but we're keeping them on a short leash. And we want to give people the freedom to vote, the freedom of the people to choose specific people's deputies in their territories, not according to leadership and parties, yes. [[Congrats]] That's the solution. There's a half-dozen decision to let the electorate go, because the people don't understand or vote for the party, and we're not afraid, yes. We're not afraid, we know the people will never be wrong, yes. And the less we teach the people the better, the smarter we all are, yes, many times. So we suggest that indeed, once again, I would like to say thank you to this author, locally, something about a patch of something, but it's in the law. But there is no systematic understanding and solution to the problem. Therefore, thanks to this bill, we propose not to consider it not to vote for it, but we will take into account certain points in the volume of the system bill, for which I think the sessional room will vote 260 votes, at least, in the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural City Heads. [[on co-existence]] [[Registration number 5448]] [[14:07:35]] For 132 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions is 0, Block of Timoshenko -100, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 30, Communists, Block of Lithuania, non-fractional - zero. Dear colleagues! Your point is to propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[language]] Registration number 2544. No one insists on discussing the bill? Please sign up. Please give me the names of the national MPs. Sergey Pogorny, then Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, considering that the bill was unfortunately not reported to be included in the agenda today, we only learned when we received this agenda, unfortunately. And the committee didn't look at it either. I'm just going to inform the bill, he means that candidates for local elections should speak the national language. This is his know-how of this bill, and I propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u147	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u148	Thank you, Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Well, I'm not a combat general, but I understand that the "pointing finger" of the faction of the Regions says to reject this bill. I would very much like them to say that they will include it in their bill. Because this bill is very natural for an independent state. Anyone who wants to exercise power should know the language of the State, not the rush, as some here allow themselves and in the national parliament to speak the language of another state. But I don't expect our coalition colleagues to do that and thus testify to their anti-Ukrainian essence. Despite their promise of freedom to all, they are actually gradually “stressing” the entire nation of “chains”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law “On the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural and Urban Heads. ” [[language]] Registration number 2544. [[14:10:28]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 95, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 32, Communists, "Block of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 1. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the implementation of the right of national public associations to nominate their candidates]] [[Registration number 3293]] I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 3293]] [[14:11:15]] For the The decision is not taken. Now the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads. [[on the selection of urban heads in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants in two rounds]] [[Registration number 4185]] I'll bet you a vote on the adoption of the project as a basis. Change the vote. Please, the microphone. What, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please sign in. Dear colleagues, the point is that you and I agreed at 4:00 to listen to information about the detention of the former head of the Đermítko Makarenko. And in order for us to complete our consideration of the matter, we need to start hearing another question at 4:00. Otherwise, we won't be able to start until we've completed our consideration of this issue. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you, and I am addressing our citizens that this bill by Kirila Kulikova is intended to elect city heads in cities with a population of more than 100,000 people in two rounds, so that there is not what happened, let's say in Kiev, when there was no possibility when the voices of normal candidates were stretched out in measure and resolved the questions, let's say only Greeks, food, soup and other sets. The bill amends the Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads. I would like to point out that in some cities, even in the district cities, we have won and become mayors of people who have raised only 7-8 percent of the population. Such distressing experiences have led to the fact that city measures are not actually based on the majority of the population and represent a relative minority of these people who live in these settlements. Of course, this does not correspond to European practice, nor does it correspond to the content or spirit of the law. Because of this, I think this bill should support absolutely all MPs, because we've seen the approach today that all the bills are going to collapse. In my opinion, this bill should be supported. I would ask you to support this bill and implement it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u151	I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural and Urban Heads. [[Registration number 4185]] [[on the selection of urban heads in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants in two rounds]] [[14:14:54]] For-88
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u152	The bill is not supported. Act 4237. [[B in m in s a l in]] One moment, dear fellows. 4237 — is there a need to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u153	I am voting for the adoption on the basis of Bill 4237 on the election of the Supreme Council deputies to inform voters of the offence. Moreover, the author of the bill asked him not to consider it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:15:50]] For -8 Not accepted. Bill number 5098. Carmazine, please give me your word, 5098.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin. Now we've put the bill to a single vote: fail. I ask you to give the floor to the MPs to speak out of support or not to support this bill. The point was that the people's MP Moskal had foreseen in his bill that a mechanism should be put in place to inform voters of whether or not there were any violations that had been committed by candidates to the MPs or to the extent that people knew whether they had committed any wrongdoing or not. And this was supposed to be done if they stole something from someone or robbed someone to write it down, and that person would have to prove it later, or not. This should be published in an official publication or other way. So today, without upholding this norm, we are hiding these facts from Ukrainian citizens today. In this law, it is proposed that the heads of law enforcement authorities be required to provide information to citizens. I'm going to remind you that law enforcement agencies exist for taxpayers' money, so they have to do this function, and they don't have to collect comps. The material to be re-written after another checkup. I would like to address you, Mr. Chechetov, to tell you how the coalition is formed? You know how, don't you? Checks are carried out at the time, and then statements are written. You'll know, then I'll tell you how it's a little bit staffed up to not become a carcass, so criminal cases don't go up against them, and then they come up. Thus, if there are such facts, do not let the law enforcement authorities report this to the party’s leadership and do not do everything in the interests of the governing coalition, but work in the name of Ukraine, to which they swear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u155	So, please, 5098 on the bill we speak. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u156	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. In his bill, a colleague named Ivanenko raised a very pressing problem. The point is that we now have about 12,000 rural heads. And it often comes out that people who have little idea of what rural heads should do, what their responsibilities, what their legal principles of activity are. However, the committee, after supporting the idea of the bill, recommended that the author not make amendments to the bill, but propose amendments to the bill on the status of deputies of rural, rural and rural councils, village, city heads. So, unfortunately, this subject has nothing to do with the Electoral Law. It needs to be introduced into another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u157	Thank you. I bet you the bill, registration number 5098. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:19:40]] For 1 Overruled. 5549, Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u158	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. The bill, proposed by counterpart Kulikiv, suggests comparing the activities of rural, rural, urban heads and deputies to positions of increased danger, such as motorists. In this regard, colleague Kulikov suggests that appropriate expertise — narcotics, psychiatric, and professional skills — be provided before a candidate can be nominated for the elections. Since all of this is a gross violation of the constitutional right to participate in the administration of public affairs, this bill is simply unconstitutional and cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-29-m0.u159	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on Bill 5549. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:21:06]] For 1 Overruled. And the last bill, number 6128. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:21:31]] For-67 He didn't get the right number of votes, the bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I won't be like this anymore. The morning session is closed, recessing until 4:00 p.m.
