ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:01:40]] It's registered with cards, I'd like to say, 410 people's deputies' cards. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would like to ask the honourable initiators of this slogan, “Access to information now or never!” or to hang it beautifully, or to remove it, but we are not at the club. Let's respect ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, in the morning we included in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economics. [[on the sale of allowances at auctions]] [[Registration number 7230]] And we agreed with you that when the committee looks at and there's a committee decision, and there's a recommendation from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we'll be able to look at this issue. The question is prepared. I'd like the papers to be distributed to the people's deputies. And we'll have a look at the next bill. No objections? This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks. [[on the Resource Technology Park, M. Kharkiv]] Dear colleagues, let's address this issue in a simplified manner. Because we need to look at 12 more questions at the evening session. Please vote in favour of this proposal, with a reduced procedure. [[16:03:29]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Valerius Kamchatny, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, if you look at a comparative table to this law, tech parks, out of 16 participants in technology parks, the list is filled with only one – the “Resource” technology park, the city of Kharkiv. But what is behind this seemingly small change? I want to remind you that the city of Kharkiv and Kharkiv is the leading and most powerful area in which great work, scientific research and practical engineering are being done. And that is why completing the list of technology parks at the expense of the Resource Technology Park, which we are proposing, a group of national MPs from Kharkishte, Potapov, Gorina and Kamchatny, will allow a step forward to improve the situation with Ukraine's energy strategy. I would like to remind you that the creation of a technology park is fully in line with the tasks set out in the relevant documents, including the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since June 6, 2007, No. 381 and other normative documents. In addition, there is a Ukrainian Energy Strategy for 2030 and it is the “Resource” technology park, which, I want to inform, consists of 15 famous and more famous organizations of the city of Kharkiv, such as the Institute of Machinebuilding, the Kharkiv State Aviation Company, the Fed plant, 8 UZL and so on and so on. Among those projects that can be implemented once the Resource Technology Park is included in the list, I'll only remind some of them. This is a project called "The New Generation Steam turbine with 325 megawatts", which is a project on the development and implementation of new tools and information technologies to diagnose the technological state of the working power grids of TES Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u4	In summary, I want to emphasize the document and the changes are not political, but are aimed at improving the energy strategy of our own Ukraine. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexei Vitaliyovich Plonikov Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u6	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Economic Policy at its meeting on 15 December 2009 reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Special regime for the Innovation of Technological Parks. [[on the “Resource” technology park, Kharkiv]] This bill was submitted by a group of national deputies. The purpose and purpose of this bill is to focus scientific personnel, material financial resources on the introduction of new developments and the production of scientific and competitive products in the field of heat, nuclear alternative energy and in many other relevant and useful sectors of the national economy. The committee considered the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which considers that the first reading of the bill can be based on a basis. And it was decided by the Economic Policy Committee to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u8	Honorable colleagues are certainly worthy of the bill to support it. But I would like to draw your attention to a special attention to the profile committee. The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill on December 15, 2009. Since December 15, almost a year has passed, and we have not yet received an extremely important bill, we do not have an expert conclusion from the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the value of the impact of the bill on the income and expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine. I don't understand why this bill, which clearly provides for the budget allocation of support for technology park projects, didn't get such an expert evaluation. We can vote now. Well, this bill for second reading is going to be hard to prepare, because we're not going to get that estimate. Regarding the very essence of the bill. It is quite clear that under the conditional name “Resource” it is a machine-building sector that certainly deserves preference and State support from the side, including the legislative branch of power. But, dear colleagues, let us not forget that a detailed and literal list of those industrial enterprises that produce products for domestic and foreign energy-generating enterprises will be made up of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, if this bill is adopted, it is certainly only on the first reading. And one more thing. Once again, I call attention to the committee that will prepare for the second reading. Please, there must be an expert evaluation. Otherwise the bill will be vetoed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u9	Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! I wanted to support Jaroslav Suhogo in the idea that today we are not discussing for the first time how to innovatively support our science and industry. But this is a single case where I want to say that this is the area of government responsibility, not parliament. If we're in Parliament right now, if we're going to lobby our loved ones, so to speak, now I'm lobbying not in a bad way, I understand that the MPs of Kharkish want to do good, and we're going to write down how many employees, how much money is needed. Well, it's a non-parliamentary job. So the government has to prepare and say that we think that for 2010 or 11 years we have to make 7 of these. Those regions are prepared, science is prepared. The documents are provided. You're on the Supreme Council. Then there's a logic to it. And now we're going to include, let's say, we're now going to include all of these technology parks from every area, when it's completely uncalculated, nothing's thought out. So I think this is the case that the government should be the initiator. Relevant structures to the government. It is the only place for Parliament to carry out legislative legitimacy. So I have no warning about this good idea. But basically, I think we've changed places here. It must be a government bill, and we in the Supreme Council should discuss it and approve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that this document can be accepted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on a special regime for innovation. [[on the “Resource” technology park, Kharkiv]] [[Registration number 4589]] There's a vote coming. [[16:12:16]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Let's go over the first reading again, but very low level of support. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. [[16:12:45.]] For 261 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions are calling for a recess for consultations on the agenda. The factions of Yulia Timoshenko and the faction of “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” are ready to make a statement. Andrew Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I am authorized to announce the joint requirement of the faction “Brother’s Motherhood Block” and the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. I'll draw your attention to the slogan that is now hanging behind the back of the National MPs. With this slogan, journalists remind us that today all journalists, all public activists, the whole country are waiting for the Supreme Council with very simple news that we will finally consider and approve in this room the Law on Access to Public Information. I would like to remind you that 251 deputies two weeks ago, this is the deputy of the ruling majority, were assigned on November 2nd to review the Law on Access to Public Information. What's happening today when we don't consider this issue, I'm only dealing with one way that we're now seeing a delay in time. Parliament is not prepared to give people the right to know. Why this law? At 19 years of independence, we remain a closed state in which an official hides from his citizens by the term “No for Printing” or “For Service Use”. We live in a country where 55 percent of the information requests remain unanswered. We live in a country where one world is officials and politicians and another world is citizens. And you and I know very well what the official is doing, hiding from his citizens: it's protection, it's inaccessible reception, it's an armored car with shaded windows, it's a "For Service Use" griffin, it's a "Not For Printing" or "All in Secret." So you need a law that starts to dismantle that wall that's between an official and a politician and between citizens. Who are delaying the approval of this law in the Supreme Council? Now this responsibility lies with the largest faction of the Supreme Council, the faction of the Party of the Regions. I'll remind you that on the first reading, all five factions of Parliament, including your faction, voted in favour of this law in the first reading. The faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and the faction “Our Ukraine” repeatedly voted in favour of the bill. The Lithuanian bloc supported us two weeks ago in a signal vote. The president stated that he was in favour of this law and would sign it. 500 Ukrainian journalists sent a request to vote in favour of the bill. This is a requirement or recommendation from the Council of Europe, the OSCE, other international institutions. Who are delaying the approval of this law? You know that a number of public activists were carrying a symbolic whip to the Regional Party's office yesterday. They suggested that President Yanukovic speed up the voting of his faction with this whip. We look forward to such methods. What else is needed? According to the work of the TSC led by Irina Heratchenko, we had 370 deputies vote in favour of this law in favour of necessity. It's time to make a decision. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to address you now. It seems to me that this is where your entire diplomatic and political gesture and where all the powers conferred by the Rules must be applied to Parliament today to implement its own decision and to consider the Law on Access to Public Information. A special meeting was held today, according to your commission. We have considered all the amendments, including the observation of the Commissioner for Human Rights. Of the 14 amendments 7, they're all reflected in the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u14	The committee's decision is in my hands, and that's why we have everything to vote on. On behalf of two factions as head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, as a journalist, as a citizen, I demand that today the Supreme Council review the Law on Access to Political Information. In a matter of seconds or minutes, we're looking at bills that deal with excise duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u15	Yes, thank you. Thank you. I am. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the head of the committee. I'm asking all of you, Your Honor, with a big request: let's not speculate on the chairman's rights or powers, let's not translate this issue into a political plane. And I would ask, let's not speak the language of the requirement. Let's follow up on the decision of the Conciliation Board. And the decision of the Conciliation Council -- let me remind you, honourable colleagues, and the head of the committee -- is that in view of the fact that the MPs have expressed their disagreement that they have not been able to participate in the committee meeting, that the committee has not considered their proposals and because of what they have said. Please don't show emotion! I ask you again, sit down! You've already spoken. . and in view of the fact that the Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights has requested that she be given the opportunity to speak at a committee meeting, we have decided that the committee should hold a meeting, consider the matter, and submit the relevant documents. Documents -- I want to say again -- I didn't see your papers. You told me you'd officially hand over this document. I've now received information that suggested that we clarify the change to the correlation table that the committee is working on. More specifically, the Legal Authority. It works -- we'll look at it. And let's not translate this problem into a political plane and prove how much we love media representatives. I'm here to consider and make a decision. When the question is ready. Tomorrow will be ready. Tomorrow will be the day after tomorrow. Dear colleagues! There's no talk from the faction, there's no talk from the faction. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the number of members of a limited liability society]] [[Registration number 2059]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[16:19:29]] For 185 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Mikolayovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee, Mr. Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u16	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is offered by a very simple but very important bill for entrepreneurs. The Law on Economic Societies, as amended, establishes a rule for members of a limited-liability society in 10 participants. Let me give you some examples. Imagine peasants who have pies that can unite these pies and create an economic society real instead of being dependents, but they cannot do so fully, since only 20 hectares will have this economic society. And you can't do that anymore because 10 is set. Or imagine traders in a small market that could build a market, repair it, create an economic society, often create it, and operate within it. But they cannot because only 10 people can participate in a society with limited responsibilities. This limits the freedom of entrepreneurship to choose the institutional and legal form of economic society. I propose a plan to raise, and this is in line with world experience. Well, in the same Russia 50, there are countries in which 100 participants for limited-liability societies and 100 participants could be approved at all. But this has to do with the change in our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u18	Dear colleagues and distinguished Chairman, I would like to remind you that we have passed this law in the Hall, but with other authors already. The President's veto was imposed on him because he asked. The President had previously had Yushchenko, and he asked for further clarification on the issue of an increase in the statutory fund in the event of a decision to turn into a society, a shareholder society. And this bill takes into account President Yushchenko's wish. The Committee has considered the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading. I would like to draw your attention to the comments made by the Chief Expert Office. Actually, these are three comments. If I may, I'd like to comment. The first observation concerns the number of members of society with limited responsibilities. Under the bill, it is proposed that the limit be set at 100 persons, and the expert office proposes to reduce to 50 persons. Why are 100 people mentioned in the bill? By analogy, as currently provided by law for private shareholders. I don't think that's the norm. The second question, the expert office proposed that the increase in the number of participants should also increase the size of the statutory fund. I would like to remind all of us of the same thing that we have already considered this year, but in a completely different direction. On the contrary, we have reduced the statutory fund to one minimum wage for all limited-liability societies. Because the crisis is because people can't find the money for it. for entrepreneurship. That's why this expert management comment doesn't seem very correct to me. And the third observation of expert management is that the right to the article, paragraph 2 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, should be placed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u19	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u20	I believe that all of this can be considered on second reading and useful things will be taken into account and refined by law. If that's what it takes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u21	Yes, you have everything, don't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any reflections on this matter in the National Deputies? Please. Well, if we don't want to talk about it, then we'll vote. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, no one signed up for the performance. Dear colleagues, the committee's conclusion is to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. I am voting on the first proposal in accordance with the Adoption Rules on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the number of members of a limited-liability society. Registration number 2059. [[16:25:26]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the authorizations of the Boards of Appeal]] [[Registration number 4053]] I'll bet you a vote on the motion to consider the matter. Oh, take it off the vote. Yes, please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u22	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine”. Dear Head, honourable deputies! Our colleague, Yuri Prokopchuk, passed this bill in February 2009. In November of that year, the committee recommended the adoption of the law as a whole. But in July this year, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Law on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences Number 2430, and in this law the proposals of Yuri Prokopczuk are implemented. So despite the committee's proposal to adopt Prokopchuk's bill as a basis, today we ask him to reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote a motion for a committee to withdraw from the draft law. [[Registration number 4053]] I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:27:32]] For 235 Decision taken. The bill was rejected and withdrawn. Dear colleagues. Is there a reporter? Dear colleagues, now you have a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Foreign Economic Act. [[on the sale of allowances at auctions]] [[Registration number 7230]] Let's look at it with a shorter procedure. Offers a reporter. Please vote. [[16:28:24]] For 213 Decision taken. No, it's Kaletnik. And then you. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. Correspondent is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity. What is the history of this bill? We all know about the unfavourable weather conditions in 2009-2010, and during the ripening and harvesting of crops this year, they were also not quite, say, comfortable for agriculture. As well as small transitional grain and crop residues in the major countries, grain producers have had a negative impact on the internal market for Ukrainian grains, on the formation of a state intervention fund, and on the regional resources of food grain. Gross crop production in the current year is expected to be 38.6 million tons when assessing the need for internal use of 26.2 million. Reducing the forecast of crop production to 38.6 due to anomalous climate conditions also reduces export resources in the current marketing year. Thus today, the actual supply of grain crops by the end of the marketing year, taking into account that some five million tons have been exported to date. Further and uncontrollable export of the specified crops will only reduce domestic resources, creating an appropriate deficit for domestic consumers. This level of transitional stocks will also create a deficit in the internal market for cereals and will be a major prerequisite for increasing their value, which will have a significant economic and social impact on the economy, putting food security at risk. So, honourable colleagues, in moving to technical conditions, the bill should be noted that the current law of Ukraine defines regimes for automatic and non-automatic licensing of exports of goods. This law lays down two principles for examining external economic activity applications for licences and quota allocations, namely, the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u26	I need another minute, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u27	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u28	Thank you. When consideration is carried out in the order of their arrival, which is determined by the dates of registration of applications, and the second when consideration is carried out at the same time after the end of the announced period of acceptance of applications with quota allocations in proportion to the quantities indicated in the applications. The adoption of the bill will ensure a legislative solution to the issue of the sale of quotas for the export of certain types of products at auctions, increase transparency and openness of the quota process and the corresponding licensing process, and ensure that the public budget is filled at the expense of the congregations for the purchase of quotas by operators. The problem of ensuring the food security of our nation, the effective functioning of the domestic grain market, and the tranquillity of our citizens, will also be solved. Interested ministries supported the bill with no notice and were invited to support it in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u29	Have a seat, please. Alexi Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u30	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 2 November 2010, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activities, which was submitted by the national deputy Kaletnik. The bill is intended to regulate the sale of allowances from auctions set for certain types of products by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The relevant report of the National Deputy contains all the specificities and features of what is to be sold at auctions, what quotas and what will result in the public budget being filled. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. In turn, the Committee on Economic Policy adopted a decision, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activity, recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept as a basis. [[Registration number 7230 from 07.10.2010]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, please, or from the rostrum or microphone, how do you feel?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u32	Microphone. Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, let us remember if there is still a type of manufacturing activity in Ukraine, where there are restrictions such as agricultural production? Are we setting quotas for chemical industry, metallurgy or anything other than what is done for the village? I understand the need this year. But the reporter was not clear, not complete in the report, and did not tell the truth, he made that point clear. I didn't buy this year's government as much as I needed to go to the Agrarian Fund or to the government's bread reserve as we've pointed out every year. And that's what's going on today is putting out the cracks that were in the stable food foundation in Ukraine. And actually to us today, I agree that it's better to process the feed grain by passing it through animalry, not to export it all abroad, because it doesn't look good for the agrarian state. But there have to be a little bit of a different standard to do that. And today I propose to vote on this law only in the first reading, because before the second reading, we have to work out a lot of rules that are not in line with the laws that we have adopted earlier and that are contrary to the rules of the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u33	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u34	So our faction will vote for this law to be passed only on the first reading so that we don't make big mistakes here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u35	Yes, thank you, too. Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u36	Madam President, the authors of this law, I beg your pardon, I will immediately say that the Communist faction has decided to vote in favour of this law. As a member of the faction, I submit to this decision, and I call on everyone to vote against it. The introduction of the Act is another tax yoke on producers, as it increases the price of goods in Ukraine and does not affect the price of the contract already concluded abroad is the first. Second. Article 16 of the Act, which provides for the application of regimes for the licensing of exports of goods, including the establishment of quotas, quantitative or other restrictions, is supplemented by the sale of quotas at auction. It's a novelty we've never had before. The quota has no value, the quota is a concept, the quota is a limit, and we will be selling that limit at auction today. Besides, what the rapporteur said today was that it was a quota for selling grain, so tomorrow it could be a quota for metal, after tomorrow - a quota for coal, after tomorrow - a quota for construction and so on. And all these quotas, the limits will be sold at auction. This is not about the sale of surplus public resources, but it is about selling what the Cabinet of Ministers wants today, and no one can stop it, including the Supreme Council. One politician said that in order to combat corruption in Ukraine, it was necessary to sell everything from open auctions. So this law or amendment of the law is another corruption trap. This is due to the fact that today the official will have the right to auction God knows that, and this is another opportunity for corruption. And the last. The amount in the law is defined as a quantitative or other restriction. That is, auctions will sell, not even the right of the State, but a restriction that is essentially of no value. That is, it is proposed to adopt a law on sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u37	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u38	No value by definition. It is necessary to submit to factional discipline and I propose not to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u39	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. No one insists on the word? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill should be rejected. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on External Economic Activity. [[Registration number 7230]] [[16:39:31]] For 249 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is given to the draft Act amending article 64 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on postponing teaching fees]] The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Davymuk Stepan Antonovich. The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:40:16]] For 204 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u40	Dear head! Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, according to which students who study at higher educational institutions on a paid basis may be granted a suspension from the payment of tuition or the provision of additional educational services. The bill also establishes a procedure for granting such a stay. Due to the financial and economic crisis, Ukraine's citizens' capacity to pay has deteriorated dramatically. The committee is constantly increasing the number of citizens' appeals, temporarily unable to pay for their children's education in higher education institutions due to job losses, systematic delays in salaries, and unpaid vacations. Clearly, their children are at risk and without a diploma of higher education, the ranks of the unemployed are being filled. So there was a situation where, at the legislative level, there was a need to solve the problem of continuing the training of contract students who were temporarily unable to pay their tuition fees. Formally, Ukraine's Higher Education Act does not prohibit the introduction of a pay-for-training period, but the absence of a single legislative procedure makes this process impossible for both those who are studying and for the higher education institutions themselves who are interested in saving students. This bill is aimed at strengthening the social protection of our young people and ensuring access to higher education. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? So is the national deputy of Lemza, the faction “Blok Timoshenko”. Mikolo Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, perhaps from a legislative point of view, is not ideal, as our colleagues in the Science and Experimental Authority point out, because they believe that the nature of the contractual relationship makes it possible to settle this, let's say, by a decision of the University Council of Sciences. But it seems to me that we should go here in a way that deals with problematic issues of practice. And here are our colleagues who have proposed a bill, and this is about 5 or 6 deputies who work at the Education Committee, I think they're going the right way, because it's both students and parents and teachers. And we better shield the rectors, too, because if today, without a given standard, the rector, for example, goes into concessions and takes six months or a year, there, God forbid, he's going to find someone cooler than any other institution and he's going to say that he was acting illegally. So, in my opinion, such a bill needs to be supported. Moreover, the bill also fits our ideology. And after we've made changes to the Higher Education Act, about increasing the status of the student self-government body. A student’s self - government body can provide an objective feature that this student, for example, needs time off with payment. Because he has social problems or other problems. So when a student’s self - government body turns, it’s already one degree of verification. Then the governing branch makes the decision. The only thing I'd agree with here is part of the comments of our experts, maybe a more precise framework, let's say a terminological framework. Maybe not from one day to the next. Maybe for a month. Because one day it doesn't look very serious in terms of financial discipline. It's like a monthly payment system. Thus, from one month to a year, this delay may be granted. But once again, I want to say that the law is right. It needs to be supported and given the opportunity for rectors to respond to the potential social problems that students and families actually have in place to pay for college students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u43	Katerina Vaschuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u44	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party, Lithuanian Block. We will, of course, support the good initiative of our colleagues. And this law is absolutely right. Because there's probably no MP in this room who hasn't met with this question at the reception of citizens in connection with the difficult situation today and with work and wages, and that people don't have the right funds and it's hard to keep a student contractor. I think this law is very timely. And the expertise allows us to develop and extend this standard even to such a notion as tranches, pay not once, with a delay even for a certain period, but with certain fates. This too will be easier for families. And in general, if you're talking about it in large numbers, at a time, probably when you're introducing credit for our children's education in colleges, so that children can get a loan with a 10 or 15 suspension, learn to have a job, and then pay off that loan as it is done in a civilized world. This would make our higher education more accessible to all people in Ukraine: to those who have serious earnings and who do not have adequate resources, but have talented children who also want to study in prestigious higher education institutions. The moment is supported and voted in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u45	Katerina Samuelk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u46	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Catherine Timofievna, I want everyone to be bankers on Friday, because it is the initiative of the Communist Party of Ukraine to consider the issue of lending higher education. And we'd like to be very supportive. And we'd really like to see what the bankers' responsibility will be for lending. I want to talk to all of you. It's a code of conduct. We're looking at it for the second time, this bill. I understand he's not good for some people. But what I'm saying is, in order for us to be an intellectual state, so that we don't have the opportunity to give children a gift, just not be able to get a higher education, this law in time. But, Mikola Volodymyrovich, one day is also one day. Believe me, I know an example of one day's failure to pay a second child was counted from a prestigious higher education facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u47	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u48	So let's just keep it the way we set it up. These are unique examples.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. No one insists on the performance? I can't see. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 64 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on postponing teaching fees]] Please vote. [[16:49:33]] For-157. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Party of Regions – 5, “Block of Timoshenko” – 83, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 17, Communists – 25, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 7. Let me put it to a vote for the purpose of re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4352]] By the way, this is where all the factions signed it. [[16:50:12]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft law amending the Ukrainian Refugee Act. [[on improving the procedure for granting refugee status in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 2325]] The committee, more specifically, is to consider it by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:51:00]] For 205 Decision taken. The author of the bill asks to see this document. For his absence for important reasons, we have a report from the committee – the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u50	The important reasons are the difficult election situation in Kharkiv. Our colleague, Alexander Feldman, who believes that the procedure for granting refugee status in Ukraine should be improved, introduced an appropriate bill, an addition to the Refugee Act. In my opinion, the heads of the subcommittee who is aware of this issue, in general, if there is any rational grain in the bill, it should not be rejected, but by making suggestions and discussions on the committees, it would still be an optimal option. However, our committee. Well, it's a different opinion, considering that there are a few serious remarks. First remark. It is undisturbed, as we think, to extend the rights of those who want to acquire or acquire refugee status in Ukraine. In particular, the bill proposes that the list of members of the refugee family who have the right to travel with a refugee to Ukraine should be extended entirely without justification, using such a legislative novel: “and so are those who are considered to be members of the family to be national laws and customs of the country of origin”. So it turns out, first of all, we have to study the laws and customs of the refugee country, and then, on the other hand, we can bring with us, sorry, sometimes harem with us some customs. Thus, when international practice speaks when it is necessary to increase the demands for refugees to enter our countries, it is as if we are weakening that moment. Another flaw in the bill. The author proposes to simplify the allegedly only form of reference for the application for refugee status for the entire duration of the application procedure and its prosecution, including in the courts, rather than at certain stages, as provided for in the current law. According to members of the committee, such a rule would lead to unjustified legalization in the country of persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u51	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u52	I'm done. And the last drawback is that Alexander Borisovich is proposing to all of you to consider the issues in the Ukrainian Migration Service. It is known that such an organ was recently abolished by the Cabinet of Ministers, and its structures in place were not created. And they don't even know what to do with it. That's the position of our committee. The committee suggested that the subject should be returned to the legislative initiative for further work, but the authors, as you can see, insist on his vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I took the floor not to interpret the position of the committee, but to understand that the committee is proposing to return to work -- just to inform you about these issues, because they are becoming increasingly relevant to Ukraine: refugee issues and the treatment of this problem by some European and international structures. I recently met with a regional representative of the United Nations, a representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees in Ukraine, Belarus, and Moldova. And here we were asked that the low percentage of granting refugee status compared to those claiming to be refugees, who are asking Ukraine to grant that status. We calculated, and statistics came out that during the period when statistics were running, 24 and a half thousand people in Ukraine were asked to grant them refugee status. And the percentage of satisfactory lawsuits, or those who became refugees, is somewhere between 7 and 8 percent, even reached 10 percent in some years. For information: In the European Union, it accounts for 4 percent, or much less, of refugees to those seeking it. But in Europe this issue is regulated differently, that is, there is a humanitarian aid system for those people who are currently in the territory but who are unable to grant refugee status to the country. And that's why I think it's not the time to liberalize the possibility of increasing the number of refugees, especially given that this status is granted to members of their families and even to indirect relatives. So I propose to support the committee's opinion and to reject the bill, and to give the subject of the legislative initiative an opportunity if he wants to work on it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u55	Mikola Tomenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, he wanted to support the position of the committee, which the head had just announced to Oleg Zarubinsky and his colleague Yuri Gnatkewicz on the committee. It seems that we have many national deputies trying to operate in this system of coordinates to do better for those entering Ukraine than for those living in Ukraine. And yet I think we should be here. It should not be more liberal than European standards, because it looks like we're, well, too much liberal. First we opened Ukraine for all European countries, now we are promised. At first, the authorities said that. One authority said it would be in 2006, the new authority said we would have a visa-free entry by the end of the year. So, to be honest, I'm taking a rather pessimistic position here, and I don't think we're going to have a visa-free entry for the next few years, at least, for years. And so when European countries treat us in the right way, we have to hit ourselves, and that's the refugee component -- it's tens of thousands, and it's the migrant component, which is already hundreds of thousands of people. So I think there should be a clear state policy, and if we're taking a migrant to Ukraine, we should take it with a clear definition of where he's going, with a clear job for him. Because we're about to have a situation where those of us who immigrated have been expelled as bandits in the law, they're going to control the trade, and our people are going to work for these people. So I don't think liberalism is on time. I don't think such a bill can be supported. And more than that, this should not be an initiative of a deputy. This should be an initiative of the Ukrainian State to prevent us from creating problems where the state is thinking about how to deal with the problems of citizens of other countries. And the state should think about how to deal with the problems of the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Once again, I recall the conclusion of the committee: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. You see, there's a difference. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Refugee Act. [[on improving the procedure for granting refugee status in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 2325]] Please identify yourself. [[16:59:56]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, four. There's nothing to show by factions. It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Law on Television and Radio Television. [[on the provision by television channels of idling information during advertising]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:00:42]] For 190 Decision taken. The reporter is Oleg Zarubinski. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u58	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party In principle, I could go into 10 seconds because the title of this bill is so worded, it's all clear what's being proposed. Amendments to the Television and Radio Act regarding the provision of identical information by television channels during advertising. It's very simple. When there is an advertisement on a television channel, the viewer should know what a television channel is to be able to identify which channel the commercial is posting. For what it's done, I think you know very well. I'm not an enemy of advertising, but what has been done lately, especially in medicine, alcohol or, as they say, malalcoholic beverages and so on, leads to the idea that some people have to understand what channel money is, clearly, advertising is money that shows anything for money. And one more moment. In a court of law, a person should always refer, and for that to be, this logo to be constantly, which channel showed a particular advertisement, perhaps even an antisocial one, which promotes some of the things that are prohibited by Ukrainian legislation. Because in this case right now, even when technical methods are taking off this airtime, you can't see the way the television channel is showing up. So it's a very simple proposition. So that every TV channel has an identity logo so that the viewers know who's showing, who's promoting, who's sorry, who's imposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u59	Thank you, you too. Andrew Vitaliovich. What? Vladimir Landik, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u60	The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act to give the subject the right of legislative initiative to work with the committee's relevant comments. First, in paragraph 1 of the bill, the term “anyone” should be deleted. In the second paragraph of the bill, the term “logotype” is replaced by the word “airtime” by “audiovisual information”. And the third piece of the bill is proposed by the Chief Science and Technology Administration: the use of speech logos or other output data is carried out by tele-organizations throughout the entire airtime. With these observations in mind, we can support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Block Timoshenko. Andrew Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u62	Colleagues, we've got some views on the committee here, and I'm going to urge you to support this bill. I think Zarubinsky's colleagues, Rudchenko and Shepelov have raised the right questions and should thank them for this initiative. I think we should work in the interests of the viewer when it includes television, it's a matter of convenience, it needs to understand which channel it's on. At the same time, I also want to say that we have a whole series of warnings that are being sounded by an industrial television committee, advertisers, television broadcasters. We realize that these changes are not in their best interests. Advertisers are not always happy to have a logo on their roller coaster. However, I think we should work in the interests of the viewer, because there will be no great harm to the industry. That is why I call on my fellow Parliamentary to support the bill of colleagues Zarubinski, Shepelov and Rudchenka. At the same time, he will need to be processed for second reading, since there are issues to be recorded in the case of the second reading, according to the legal technique just stated by colleague Vladimir Landik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u63	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I immediately apologize, I have pressed the “against” button for the sole cynical purpose of reaching the rostrum, because there may be a lot of pros and cons, and this bill certainly needs to be supported. I draw your attention, everyone, especially our television and radio audiences. Zarubinsky’s colleague actually touched on a very important and very, very annoying subject. Our voters repeatedly point to the fact that in Ukrainian television today it is impossible to watch a film or an interesting entertainment show or concert. There are some TV channels that for ten, twenty minutes dullly turn their commercials on unsoakable wings or something, for hair. Same thing three times, whether the operator is sitting there and forgetting that he put on this video, the second time and the third time, and that click on the TV channels, you're already forgetting what you saw, what this film was about, and what it all seemed like. This, in addition to wasting our time, is also a lie. Because in a television program where it's said that from this hour on, there's going to be a movie like this. Dear colleagues, this bill needs not only support, but also the idea of Zarubinsky's colleague of order with advertising activities on our television channels needs to be developed. That's the first thing that applies, and there's a medical profession here that can prove this is a disgraceful drug commercial. So you can't be constantly afraid of all kinds of diagnosis and immediately say what you have to do, run to the pharmacy and buy some kind of medicine. You know perfectly well what a terrible damage it is to self - medication, perhaps worse than the fact that he later went to a doctor. So I urge this bill to be supported, it needs to be voted on, and in the next committee of profile, Mr. Andrey, don't scare us with all the pots they've posted here, I'm not going to vote for your law now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting. Please vote. [[17:08:52]] For 323 Decision taken. Here the proposal was generally accepted by the bill. Is there a denial? Yes. Once there is a denial, let us thus vote on the commission of the committee to prepare it for the second reading by a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:09:28]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 67 of the Ukrainian Code on the work of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the transfer of working days]] [[Registration number 5187]] The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:10:05]] For-198 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. The correspondent is the head of the Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov subcommittee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u66	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Bill number 5187 called for improving conditions for early planning of rest by regulating the transfer of work days. The fact is that in Ukraine there is already a practice of transferring work days during New Year’s, May, and other holidays. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will then issue instructions on the transfer of working days. Such recommendations are generally welcomed by society, and they are usually supported by business leaders, institutions, and organizations. However, according to practice, the government’s stated orders may be issued within about one month of the date of work to be carried on. In view of the fact that the workdays may result in four or five consecutive days, and that the managers of enterprises, institutions, and organizations may make final decisions later on in the government, citizens are virtually out of time for leisure planning. The sooner a person plans to rest, the better he is organized. This is primarily the case with the purchase of tickets, there is transportation, where they will rest, and so forth. The bill thus provides for the possibility for citizens to plan early rest and create favourable conditions for celebrating holidays by obliging the Cabinet of Ministers to issue, if necessary, the specified instructions not later than 3 months before the date of the first day of work carried forward, but for managers of enterprises, institutions and organizations when using the government’s recommendations to be obliged to issue appropriate orders no later than 2 months before the date of the first day of work carried forward. Science-expert management.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u68	Science-expert management supports it as a basis. The Main Committee also recommends acceptance as a basis and I personally, honourable colleagues, ask you to support this bill, because it allows you to improve conditions for our Ukrainian citizens when it comes to their rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u69	Thank you. Please invite Schmel's Svetlana Alexandrovna, head of the Committee's Committee on Social Policy and Work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u70	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! As already noted, the bill provides for the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to recommend that businesses, institutions, and organizations carry work days. Such arrangements are expected to be issued no later than three months before the date of the first day of work to be carried on. When using these recommendations, managers of enterprises, institutions, and organizations should issue an order no later than 2 months before the date of the first day of work carried over. . December 2009 The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill and proposes to adopt it as a basis. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance generally support the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues notes that the bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget or on its implementation during the current budget period. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules of Procedure and Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports that the bill is registered in compliance with the requirements of articles 90, 92 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the observation made. In view of the above, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what will be our decision? There's a denial. Well, please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u72	Sit down?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u73	Yes, thank you. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Mishchenko, BUT faction. Microphone, please. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is really right and must be supported. In fact, if there were observations of scientific expertise, it could be accepted as a whole. But I am sure that if we vote for a reduced order in the committee of its consideration, we will be able to vote on it in the next session as a whole. So the author of the Miroshnichenko bill faithfully made proposals that are really necessary for our citizens to plan their vacation in advance on their holidays so that it would be three months, not, there, in a week or two, when they'll be told what you're going to have, there, some weekends. So technically, technically everything is right, logically, and that's why I urge Parliament to support the Peacekeeper Initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u75	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I wouldn't be so sure if I said this bill had no flaws. Why? First of all, an act of the Cabinet of Ministers is a legal act. This is because part three of the word “in the case of the use of the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers” says that business managers can use, implement and may not implement this recommendation. It is optional for them according to this text. And I'd like to ask the author, well, unfortunately, we're looking at everything in a reduced procedure, and the Supreme Council's management is obliged to do that? Don't you remember that circus you had here this summer? Do you remember when it was necessary to stretch one, the other, the third project called the majority or the coalition? As a result, there are many questions. It is also right to note the role of trade unions in that they have the right to reconcile with their employer the issue of working time and rest time. That's why we need all of this in planning and in working out this draft law, which I will certainly support during the first reading, but I don't think we need to shorten not the deadline for preparing it, nor to rush into a different kind of adoption. It needs to be carefully thought out, reasoned, and it has to be written down here, and the Supreme Council, because the MPs, they don't seem to be in compliance with Parliament's leadership, they don't comply with the acts that Kabmin is taking now, and they're doing whatever they want to do with us. We are also human, and we are also subject to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u77	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, I do not recall the point, but Peter I once wrote this resolution: “Possession is questionable, but harm is possible. ” That's it, that's it. ‘obvious’. This is also true of the bill. You can support my colleague Miroshnichenko's initiative that something needs to be regulated, but normalization leads to a narrowing of citizens' rights. Because, look, the Cabinet of Ministers has to make a recommendation in three months. I'm with Karmazin. What recommendation? recommending it to those who are not subordinated to it, or private property. He gives instructions to government authorities, not recommendations. Then, no later than two months later, managers should issue a special order for the transfer of work days. Imagine the Cabinet of Ministers issuing orders, not two months later, but two months later, the head of the company will issue a similar order. And what, in this case? In this case, if governed by law, people have no right on weekends. In general, I would recommend not to invent anything, to leave as is in the law that worked and he calmly regulated everything. And if you want to fix something and take the initiative that has the right to life, but it's written out by an alogically, it's only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for the adoption of a draft law amending article 67 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. [[Registration number 5187]] [[on the transfer of working days]] Based on the base. [[17:20:43]] For 305 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Act amending article 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on holidays and non-working days]] [[Registration number 7086]] The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:21:19]] For 172 Decision taken. Reporter: Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. He is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u80	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. My colleague and I, the head of the Ukrainian Company and the Ukrainian Company's faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, have submitted a draft law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. That's what it's about. The bill proposes to restore article 73, which lists the holidays and non-working days of November 7, the anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. In doing so, we pay tribute to honor and respect to one of the most glorious events in history not only in our country but also in the history of world civilization. In order to keep the balance, the ratio of working days to non-working days, we propose to subtract from this list on May 2. We can treat the bill differently, the idea that it is based on. But you can't deny the obvious. Clearly, the events of 1917 laid the foundation for Ukraine’s independence, its economic, social, and spiritual development. As a result, Ukraine became one of the founding countries of the United Nations in 1945. During the years of Soviet power, Ukraine became a highly developed state with one of Europe’s highest standards of living. We had tons of steel per capita, tons of grain. At the level of world standards, the number of staple foods was consumed. According to experts, one of the best in the world and in the country was the level of education, science, health care, and social security. So, respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and I call on the faction of the Company of Ukraine to support this bill and re-establish it on the 7th of November as the anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u81	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Svetlana Alexandrovna, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u82	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! One of the drafters of the bill made it very clear what we were talking about. Every person who lived in those days who knows what the Yellow Revolution is for Ukraine, that it's their independence. Of course, they understand and vote. And now from the committee. The bill provides for the introduction of an amendment to article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, which defines holidays and religious holidays that are not carried out. In particular, it is proposed to renew the new holiday on November 7 – the anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution, and to exclude May 2 from the holiday days. On October 6, 2010, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill and proposed to adopt the bill as a basis. In view of the above, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u83	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovna. So, shall we vote? Please sign up for the discussion. Let's talk about it. Andrey Parubius, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u84	Papuy Andry, “Our Ukraine” faction. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the coalition, I would like to distract you from laughter and return you to a serious subject. We will act in any position to prove our point not only to you but also to the people. You think about what's going on in the room right now, what you're talking about. You want to celebrate the anniversary of the establishment in Ukraine of a Communist regime that has led to the deaths of tens of millions of Ukrainians. Perhaps most people in the hall have someone in their family who has suffered either from starvation or who has been reprised by the Communist regime. And here, when the European Union, when European institutions today liken Communist ideology to Nazi and fascist ideology, when the entire civilized world condemns communism as an anti-human ideology, here the question is that we Ukrainians celebrate the day of this regime, including in Ukraine. This stops any path to Europe for Ukraine. This is contempt for all those who died at the hands of the Communist regime. So I ask you, good people, to remember, to take political fornication away from your eyes and, by pressing the button, to make sure that you do not despise your parents, your grandfathers, by your vote. I urge everyone in this room not to vote in favour of this bill. I call for a vote against it. And I call for responsibility for every vote I make, both to those who live today and to our predecessors who have died by the hands and by the activities of the Communist regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u85	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u86	Thank you. In carrying out their moral duty to the generations that built the world’s most powerful state, where a man of work, whether in the city or in the village, had the highest rank of citizen and person with access to education, the State where health was available. The state that built cities, power stations, schools, kindergartens, palaces, mines, factories, and factories. This is what, the great October, the Soviet authorities and the Communist Party left you with an inheritance that you so carelessly drowned, opened up and eventually would Ukraine have happened if it hadn't been for the Great Yellow?Oh, my God! After all, the Great Yellow has contributed to Ukraine’s becoming a state, within the limits within which we now exist, doing ours. Long. Before all the generations that have left a flourishing state, they have done all they can to rub the good of the people. Me. I urge all of you to vote for the holiday. I remind you that the festival was canceled during a parliamentary coup led by Medvedchuk. You're part of this! And I ask all of you, before the great world comes to vote for the re-enactment of the celebration of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u87	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u88	Sergei Shevchuk. Well, I'm disappointed that the decree doesn't have Lenin and Krupske's birthdays, and they'd still be on holiday days, so I'm handing over the word to the national deputy of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u89	Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u90	Mikhailo Kosov. Dear colleagues, I just want a very specific few comments. Four, actually. Remember, the Constitution of Ukraine states: “No political ideology can be a state ideology.” We have a multiparty and a polyphony of political beliefs in our country. Of course, Communists may have their Communist beliefs, but they can make it a national holiday! - and force all those who do not adhere to Communist ideology to observe on a national level - but this is a violation of the Constitution! Gentlemen, we can't do this! The other one. On July 2, 2009, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly was held in the city of Vilnius, which states that in the twentieth century, European countries endured two powerful totalitarian regimes — the Nazi and Stalinic, which carried genocide, human rights violations and freedoms, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Are we not members of the Parliamentary Assembly? But we're just gonna look funny. Third. But this event did not take place in Ukraine, and it took place in a neighboring state. And number four: but it wasn't a revolution. Believe me, as a historian, I studied this situation very carefully. The revolution began later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u91	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There is nothing else to call a move that can be called “return to the past”. But there's absolutely no meaning to it. The event that took place in the territory of a completely different state today, which, even by those Communist, principles, could not have had a direct bearing on Ukraine, because the relevant actions, the corresponding assemblies, the announcements of the government, and so on, were not on very different dates, any relation to the 7th of November, or then the 25th of October. Hence, this artificial attachment refers to the basic moral, psychological, and historical secondaryity of those who make it. For the Communist Party, it's obviously an ideological factor, and in its own direct, party, calendars can be marked. Why impose this on the whole country, realizing that this is an unnecessary factor of division, I do not understand. And now for another nuance. When you propose a holiday on November 7th, you propose to take a traditional, long-standing custom for citizens since the time of the Union on May 2nd, the second day of the work. So you're talking about the achievements that your party and this country made for us on November 7th. This reminds me: Finland, which then separated, broke out, which does not celebrate this day. Compare: we and they started together, that November 7th we split up. In Finland, what they have, what is the level of social protection, what is the level of real normal human rights and what is happening today and what is happening to us, and unfortunately, our neighbours are Russians. So, as far as I'm concerned, this project needs to be rejected. Whoever wanted to make it popular, did. I propose to everyone: to vote against it, because by introducing an ideological one day, we take from those people who actually did what you were bragging about, and into space, rockets were launched, and we raised the whole, and everything else -- people work, we take the day that's connected to them. The day of work, half of the holiday, is being cut short and dishonored. Let us respect people’s work, not ideological norms and dogmas, which have no bearing on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, the question is closed, points are made. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (for holidays of off-duty days) (registration number 7086). [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, please, calm down. [[17:34:38]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction voted in full. Please, by the factions. Party of regions – zero, Block of Timoshenko – zero, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – one, communists – 26, Block of Lithuania – zero, non-fractional – two. The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear people's deputies, please, we don't have it yet. It's not a holiday. Let's work, we have three questions left to consider today. I am announcing the draft Law on Inland Water Transport. [[Registration number 4319]] Suggestion: Consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:35:50]] For 185 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Davidenko Andriy Anatoliyovich. Coroner is the deputy head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Kruk Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u94	Andrew Davidenko, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear colleagues! The draft Law on Inland Water Transport is called upon to ensure legal regulation in the field of navigation on inland waterways that are not yet improved and have significant gaps. This is confirmed by the numerous disputes faced by enterprises, institutions, and organizations operating inland waterways. As a result, we have a catastrophic decline in the volume of transport by river. So the volume of cargo dropped from 67 million tons in the 1990s to five million tons in 2009, and passenger transport accordingly fell from 19 million to 1.5 million, although river transport was recognized as one of the most economic and ecological modes of transport in the world. In the area of regulation of shipping in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Commercial Maritime Code is in force, but the situation does not fully explain the issue of regulation of inland waterways. The provisions of the USSR Inland Water Transport Statute, which was approved in the 55th year, which is now in force in Ukraine, run counter to the current legislation of Ukraine. The bill regulates relations with inland waterways and inland waterways. This law will also regulate relations related to the operation of seagoing vessels and mixed river-sea vessels as they travel through inland waterways and fishing vessels while they are on inland waterways in river ports. The bill defines the tasks and directions of State regulation in the field of inland water transport, provides a significant array of definitions, regulates the legal status of ships, ship personnel, ground services, craft service, regulations on the movement of vessels, standards on the safety of navigation, the organization of freight and passengers. The draft law applied international law, such as the European Agreement on the most important inland routes and the European rules on inland waterway navigation. When considering the previous edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u95	Please finish, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u96	During the previous drafting of the bill, comments and suggestions were received from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the State Department, the State Committee on Fisheries, the Committee on European Integration, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies. After processing and taking into account most of the suggestions and comments, a new draft of the bill has been prepared as a substitute for the previous one. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u97	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Yuri Borisovich, deputy head of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u98	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Transport and Communications, at its meeting on 18 November 2009, considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Inland Navigation of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4319]] The purpose of this draft law is to regulate legal relations in the inland navigation sector, i.e. activities relating to the use of ships for the carriage of goods, passengers, luggage, mail, the operation of inland waterways, the registration of ships and the right to navigation under State flags, the legal status of the crew of vessels, its composition, the rights and duties of the ship captain. According to the Budget Committee, the implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, Deputies and Operation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has determined that the bill has been registered in accordance with the requirements of articles 91, 92 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and may be adopted on first reading. He also made a comment concerning the section “Transitional provisions” and “Conclusion clauses”, which could be taken into account in the second reading. According to the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, a bill resulting from the first reading could be adopted as a basis. The Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine supports the bill, subject to comments submitted, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u99	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u100	All these comments and proposals will be carefully worked out and duly reflected in the preparation of the draft draft for second reading. In view of the above, the Transport and Communications Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following its first reading of the Law on Inland Navigation, be adopted as a basis for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u101	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vasadé, microphone, please. Or on the rostrum. Won't he be speaking? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u102	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I have been thoroughly familiar with this bill, and I agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that the scope of its legal regulation is extremely large and comprehensive. So comprehensive, which I think is Yuri Borisovich, that you wanted to basically rewrite the Code of Merchandise Navigation. But you probably shouldn't do that. Obviously, another version of this codex should be made. You know, I've always been very careful about reading these documents in view of one thing, and I want to understand what's going on today? We have one of the largest water arteries is Dnipro. It's practically not a ship's vessel. Nobody's walking on it. The man who dared build a ship here was immediately reminded that there were Russian interests, that there was a Russian oligarch and that a criminal case should be brought against him. And now they're breaking up in the Mikolai district with these criminal cases, I mean the enterprise. With that hero of Ukraine. The man who stood up against the totally mindless actions of the Ministry of Transport, which you remember held back the goods that were on the UN line for Somalia and so on, and lost, lost more than $15 million, no one was punished in Mintrans, no one was drawn to anything, and no one was criminalized. Because of your responsibilities as inland waterway users in article 13, the responsibility of those who make decisions, including foolish ones, must also be placed. I'm talking about Mintrans to match their pockets and jails, which are absolutely necessary in such cases. In principle, we need to adopt this bill, but only in the first reading, first. And secondly, I'd like us to remember why the goods went around Ukraine, why we're a couple now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u104	Why is there such a situation now that something has happened in the state over the past six months? So I would like, dear friends, to encourage our shipping by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt a bill on the basis of which the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is of the same opinion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Inland Water Transport. [[Registration number 4319]] [[17:45:31]] For 261 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose to you the draft Act amending section III, paragraph 4, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine, "To amend certain laws of Ukraine with the aim of overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis". [[Registration number 6146]] At the same time, the author of the bill addressed a letter requesting the Supreme Council of Ukraine to initiate the repeal of the bill and withdraw it in view of its loss of relevance. I'm voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft law. [[Registration number 6146]] Please vote. [[17:46:31]] For 244 Decision taken. The bill is off-limits. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on the elimination of the requirement to make a warning only in WTO member countries]] [[Registration number 6192]] The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Are you going to report? The reporter will be Yuri Poluniev. [[17:47:10]] For-195 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u106	Dear head! Dear colleagues! It is proposed to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. The purpose of the draft law is to increase the effectiveness of the participation of domestic insurers in international insurance relations, including by removing restrictions on the enforcement of insurance only in WTO member countries. In view of the tightening of the world’s fear - inspiring markets by a substantial increase in tariffs and given the presence of close economic ties between the insurance markets of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, in today’s conditions it is economically appropriate to make a distinction between the requirement to make a threat only against non-resident insurance companies registered in WTO member countries. The bill provides for the possibility of such intimidation, including in the Russian Federation. It is also suggested that the insured person is not a resident and cannot be registered in a country that belongs to an offshore zone. It is also proposed that, in the event of an emergency operation, mandatory signature be withdrawn with the authorized authority of a country in which a registered non-resident, a memorandum of understanding*** on the exchange of information. Such a memorandum often prolongs the process of intimidation, leading to economic and financial losses. The removal of such restrictions does not conflict, I stress, with Ukraine’s commitment to the World Trade Organization. This bill is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and is also supported by a training committee that recommends that the Supreme Council support this project as a whole. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u107	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please put your name on the board. Yuri Karakai, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u108	Thank you, Karakai, Party of Regions. Considering that this bill, introduced by our colleagues Klimenko and Polunie, allows us to settle issues and improve the working conditions of domestic insurance companies, our faction and I would like to ask a colleague in the hall to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u110	Dear national deputies, well, it's not quite as normal as we were given. Let us take a real look at this situation. The current norm was really directed to the protection of our citizens who use insurance companies as consumers. The bill, more faithfully, clearly stated in the law that only in the countries of the WTO, that is, in those countries where there are really serious reinsurers, we talked about what it should be like to walk in offshore areas where we too will lose the protection of our citizens. We have adopted a rule that states should exchange certain information treaties among themselves. I don't think that's making contracts any longer with a resident. Now, of course, it's suggested that we cancel everything. And it's obvious that we're exacerbating the conditions of our ordinary citizens who use insurance companies. Of course, the main reason is Russia, which is not part of the WTO, and so of course we have to make sure that the capital is exported here. Because you know that there's nothing else to be afraid of than taking out the capital. Because 1 million of the capital that's being exported is coming back because of insurance, because of insurance, well, 20-25 percent, everything else stays with the insurance company. Therefore, we should also keep that standard in mind. I think these proposals are making our citizens' conditions much worse. I could support this bill on one condition, if the authors said that if it wasn't in the countries of the WTO where there are guarantees of intimidation, and in countries that don't apply to the WTO there would be requirements for those insurers whose rating companies are very easy to determine. Under such conditions, of course, I could vote for reinsurers to be in other countries, not in the countries of the WTO. That's why I'm not proposing to support it, because it's making our citizens who use insurance companies much worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-02-m1.u111	Dear National Deputies, who still insists on taking part in the discussion? None. Dear colleagues, I recall the committee's conclusion. It's about adopting the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management doesn't object to such a proposal. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on the elimination of the requirement to make a warning only in WTO member countries]] [[Registration number 6192]] [[17:53:00]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered. There's an offer to re-send the first reading. Let's put her to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to refer the draft Act to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act for the re-reading of the first reading. Registration number 6192. [[17:53:49]] For 238. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, all the questions that were scheduled for consideration today have been discussed with you. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday, November 3. Thank you.
