ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:02:35]] Registered -416 The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the anniversary of the President of Ukraine. I ask you all to join us in welcoming the head of state with this birthday and wishing him success in the name of the prosperity of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Victor Terrena. Please welcome our colleague and wish him good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on July 8th, 25 issues of the agenda will be discussed. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws and 9 regulations were passed, 3 bills were adopted on a basis, 3 bills and 2 draft regulations were rejected. Dear colleagues, I give you information in the form of an ad. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies into the coalitions of the parliamentary factions “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth invocation of Hack Valery Petrovic, Denkovic Ivan Vasilovich, Cruz Mikoli Fedorovich, Lukyanovina Evgenovna, Soročin-Kyrilenko Raisa Mikolayovna. There's no motive. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? In view of the many bills that we have to determine before this session is completed, there is a proposal that, by the way, has also been discussed on the Conciliation Council to make changes to the calendar plan for our work: to hold an evening session, removing the hour for the “Variable” — that is, for the national MPs — and tomorrow to hold plenary sessions — I stress — plenary sessions. And then we'll figure it out. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. It'll be Sunday. [[10:05:35]] For 238. Now, dear colleagues, as to how we can organize our plenary life, I ask the factions to sign up in a minute. Please sign up. Dear colleagues! May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Andrew School microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I understand that we can work on Saturday, and on Sunday, we can even move our session to Crimea: there's a birthday for the country's headman and those neighborhoods. So you can make fun of it -- well, it's not worth it. I'm asking you, let's work within the framework of what we do here at least in the legislature. If the highest officials spit on the Constitution, shame the country, let's at least make Parliament the model that shows clear work and cooperation. Because, well, I don't know, we've been making a decision to vote on everything that's brought here for a few days, but nevertheless, it's a very difficult, very complicated referendum law. You see, this law seeks to replace Parliament in general and destroy parliamentaryism in Ukraine and Ukraine, including. That's why I urge: no Saturdays, no Sundays, today we have to put a stop to all attempts to destroy parliamentaryism in Ukraine. We have no right to pass through the agenda and to vote on the Anti-Ukraine referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u3	Vladimir Moisik gives the right to speak to Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u4	Thank you. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the systematic violation of the Rules by the leadership of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, contrary to our proposals, there was a general bill on amending the budget, where the social expenditures were substantially reduced and opposition representatives were denied the opportunity to submit these proposals to the second reading. Next. Yesterday, in spite of our position, the Law on Amendments to the Tenders Act, which introduces corruption schemes under Euro-2012, was passed. Representatives of the opposition were deprived of the opportunity to file a second reading of the complaint. Today you put on a second reading, a law on the activities of the National Bank, this law was voted yesterday in the first reading. The Supreme Council did not take a decision after a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading, nor did it decide to violate the requirements of the Rules in order to dissuade the opposition from making its proposals to this law. I'm asking you to remove this law today -- once, and give us the opportunity to amend it, because it's an important law. And the second is still not to deprive us of the opportunity to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u6	do not deprive us of the possibility of submitting our proposals to the laws, or tell us to leave the hall and then vote “gollopa de europea” whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u7	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think the electorate appreciates today's Parliament's work, I mean the last time we work constructively up to 18 hours, and we extend our work by taking very serious documents, very serious documents, and by going out on Saturday to work I think it will be positively appreciated by people and people will say that finally Parliament has moved on from a chat. Where the most important thing is that we do not simply do so, you see, when the most serious tax document, the Constitution, was discussed, we made a very balanced joint decision between the President and the Government, and Parliament, to delay the final decision of this document for the month of September. Therefore, I think that we will also discuss with you seriously each article of two serious documents, there is also the Referendum Act, and the Elections Act, and we will read out the documents that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u9	To consider the conclusion of this session, a vote was taken. Taras Cranowil, Non-Flocked
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you can work on Saturdays and Sundays and Mondays -- when you see a good result, the same budget code, where there are some mistakes, but generally a good document. The position we took under the Tax Code is obviously good that such work is going. And if we can figure out ten more questions that we really need to take, we can work on the weekends and the whole next week. There's a question about not doing anything stupid in a hurry. What burns is the Law on Elections. What doesn't burn at all, as far as I'm concerned. And the noise puts a mine of slow action under everyone, including the future of the Supreme Council -- the Referendum Act. You know, in such a hurry, it's good to catch fleas. I would suggest, let's work as long as we don't solve the necessary questions, but the Referendum Act, as well as the Tax Office, put in a public discussion, an expert discussion, and then adopt a wise document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our conversation. We have plenary meetings tomorrow. We'll work, I'm sure, without haste, we'll take care of it. If we see that we need the next plenary weeks, and the next days for plenary work, we'll have a proposal to work on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and so on. Until we make the decisions we need to make in a calm environment. Dear colleagues, in accordance with articles 25 and 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of non-compartment MPs made a proposal during the “Year of Questions to the Government” to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of work in the area of tax reform. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the “Year of Questions to the Government” is represented by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Sergey Leonidovich Tihypko, also attended by Minister of Economics Tsuko Vasil Petrovich, First Deputy Minister of Finance of Cops Vadim Anatoliyovich and First Deputy Head of State Tax Administration Malikov Valeriy Aleksandrovich. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of Vice Prime Minister Sergio Leonidovich Tihypco of Ukraine. I remind you, my fellow Members, that according to the Rules of Procedure, 30 minutes has been referred to questions from members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from non-members of the coalition. The deputy faction of the "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense" Block, based on article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions that the Cabinet of Ministers should answer. Following the responses of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine to these questions for the rest of the time, it is proposed to ask oral questions from the factions of the "Julia Timoshenko" if the deputies have such questions. Then 30 minutes to question the national deputies of all, i.e., the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. Sergey Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I, the Cabinet of Ministers, got five questions that I'd like to start answering. First question. The government has declared a reduction in tax pressure in some of the most important taxes, demonstrating inconsistencies and unwillingness for radical reforms. Yes, promising an annual reduction of 1 per cent of VAT and a basic income tax to 17 per cent by 2014. In fact, 20 percent and 25 percent of the current rates will essentially return from 2015. That is, instead of a sequence of applied policies, the tax reduction of tax pressures by conflicting measures will only be reversed by the tax field. Is this not evidence of a lack of strategic vision by the government of ideology and tax reform, government uncertainty in its own position, or fear of complex reforms? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the VAT and income tax rates in Ukraine are at this level, I would say, the average European level. If you look at the VAT tax and look at those countries that are our neighbors, look at that load, we're on the average. In Poland, VAT is 22 percent, Slovakia is 23 percent, France is 20.6 percent, Sweden is 25 percent, Austria is 20 percent. In Europe, there has been a trend in recent years towards a reduction in income tax. On average, over the last five years, it has fallen from 30 percent to about 25 percent. So after the devastating 2008-2009 crisis, we have foreseen in the Tax Code a reduction in taxes, starting in 2012, to one tax point, and actually from 2015 tax burden will be restored to the same level that it was before. Why was this done? First of all, it was because we understand very well that during this time our businesses lost a lot and to restore their circulation money in order to promote the economy during the crisis and to offer the right steps. During the post-crisis period, the basic VAT rate of 20 percent gradually decreases by one percent to 17 to save taxpayers the circulation costs. The same thing, 1 percent is going to decrease the income tax. Also, as you know, there is also a considerable amount of tax and tax burden at the present time. All in all, if you look at it, we have 147 taxes and congregations today. The very order of accounting, filing and reporting, the ambiguity of tax laws. It is not justified to consider a reduction in the tax burden only by lowering the basic tax rates. And it is only possible to address this issue in a comprehensive way with other measures to improve the tax system. In particular, the tax revenue is expected to be taxed through the implementation of income and expenditure rules for accounting. Inserting a cash method to collect taxes. More economically justified tax depreciation mechanisms. Investment-Innovation Tax Credits, etc. The second question. In world practice, in the world practice of reducing certain important rates of taxation is usually accompanied by a simultaneous reduction in tax benefits to achieve a balance or non-admissibility of a sharp reduction in budget revenues. However, in Ukraine, rather than ignoring world practice, there is a substantial expansion or restoration of the number of benefits, reliefs, and preferences, especially under special tax regimes. Is this not evidence of a lack of ideological base and understanding of the interrelationship of policies, a reduction in tax rates, and a reduction or even elimination of exemptions and exemptions to ensure a transparent and understandable tax system that is convenient not only for taxpayers but also for ordinary citizens? Tax benefits, exemptions and preferences in economies around the world are used to encourage taxpayers to develop important economic activities for the country or to support certain economic regions. Hence, no nation in the world is giving up all tax preferences. Instead, countries with special tax regimes show high rates of investment and economic development. If you look at the examples. There are now six free economic zones in Belarus. The Russian Federation is 16 special economic zones with different tax administrative and customs regimes. Latvia is 4. Lithuania is 2, Ireland is 1 of the oldest since 1959. Spain 8 zones with different regimes, Kazakhstan 6, Turkey 8. There are such zones in the United States, Canada, Britain. Thus, the Tax Code is designed to optimize tax benefits rather than eliminate them. In doing so, it is envisaged to increase the liability of taxpayers for the purposeless use of tax-free funds, which will increase the economic impact of their application. It is only possible to address the issue of the cancellation of the benefits in a complex way with other measures to improve the tax system. In particular, with regard to special tax regimes, special economic zones have special features. These are the positions of the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures that will contribute to the revitalization of investment and innovation activities. The development of depressive areas will not result in budget losses or distortions of a competitive environment in the middle of the country. These include the introduction of a special customs zone. Goods imported into such zones are considered to be outside the customs territory of Ukraine. Import operations in addition to vehicles and groups from 1 to 24 groups in such areas are exclusively implemented by investment projects and are not subject to VAT. Export operations outside Ukraine are also not taxed on VAT. Imports of goods and finished products from these zones into the customs territory of Ukraine take place in import mode with the payment of all relevant taxes and congregations. I believe that we have taken into account the problematic issues that we had when appropriate work regimes were applied in Ukraine. Question three. A domestic business can reduce the amount of taxes due to the application of special tax regimes of investment and innovation credit and other measures that are often opaque and therefore corrupt. At the same time, in order to compensate for the loss of the budget, the government is essentially trying to increase the taxation of the income of individuals, including the least-secured groups, from reducing the fiscal burden on the corporate sector in the draft Tax Code. Do you not consider it appropriate to ensure social justice in the Code, firstly, to eliminate the notion of “social benefits”, which only misleads about the level of taxation of natural persons; secondly, to set the amount of the non-taxable minimum at least below the level of the minimum wage in order to derive the minimum income from the tax field? Tax social benefits were introduced by the Ukrainian Income Tax Act for social support to the very low level of the population. Setting an untaxed minimum at minimum wage violates one of the basic principles of taxation regarding equality and non-admission of any tax discrimination. Such an offer does not have a social orientation that provides for social tax benefits, and it undermines the function that it performs today. The proposal, taking into account the dynamics of the annual increase in minimum wage, will also lead to an increase in the untaxed minimum. In this way, we can get both oversized and economically unwarranted amounts of untaxed income, which will result in significant losses in local budgets and incentives for entities to hide the real size of wages and pay the minimum wage. [[in quotes]] Only under current conditions and at 2010 prices will the loss of local taxes amount to about 2 billion 800 million dollars. That's why the government plans to move forward in pension reform, along with lower tax burdens. Which, along with the only social contribution you've accepted yesterday and which you've discussed for 12 years -- and I'm grateful, because this law is very nice and will help the Ukrainian business: reduce the time spent on administration -- will lead to the removal from the shadows of real pay and its growth. The fourth questions. In order to achieve government-declared tax goals, accompanying reforms, tax services, its principles, technical equipment, and so forth are essential. So tax reform requires modernizing the tax service in general. However, it is well - known that no government agency is able to change and control itself. Who and how will monitor the modernization of the tax service, taking into account the expansion of the powers of the tax authorities along with the violation of the tax laws provided for in the new code. I apologize, but very long questions. I'd like to keep it short, but I can't narrow down the questions that are asked in writing. As for this question, I am convinced that this is really very important and I want to report that tax administration reform is taking place across a number of projects. The core project, which is now modernising the tax administration, is being implemented with the World Bank and has a sufficiently long term term, called the Modernisation of the State Tax Service. The main thrust of this project is to ensure that taxpayers voluntarily execute taxes, tax legislation requirements, transparency, competence, predictability and impartiality of the tax service, to create a highly professionally developed tax service through the development and implementation of an information infrastructure programme. To verify this situation, there are two public councils, and there are two public councils, including the people’s deputies. Once a six - year period with the World Bank, a project that may change where the tax administration reports and can somehow change the work that has been done over the past six months. When this project is completed, we in Ukraine will get, in fact, all the conditions for the activity of the European tax service. And the quality of its work will depend solely on who will lead the Prime Minister, because usually the Prime Minister coordinates the activities of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance directly influences the head of the tax administration. Fifth question. In an international business promotion rating in 2010, Ukraine holds 181 seats from 183 rated countries. What position do you think Ukraine will be able to move to if a proposed version of the code is introduced? As I understand it, it's not about this study, but it's about 11 indicators. One of the 11 indicators is called “the simplicity of taxation”, and it shows the level of tax burden and administration of these taxes in the country. In fact, at this rate we're currently 181 places among 183 countries, but we've improved a little bit over the course of this year, but it's still saying that we have one of the worst tax laws in the world. Why the government has now offered to consider and return to the issue of the Tax Code. You also need to look at the definition of this sub-rating. This is information on taxes that should compensate an enterprise’s average size and take into account the administrative pressure associated with the payment of taxes, such as the number of taxes. The Tax Code reduces taxes from 42 to 24. At this time, it also takes into account time to calculate these taxes and to make appropriate declarations. If we reduce by 43 percent the number of taxes, we can say that by about the same percentage we're reducing the amount of administration. Taxes on basic taxes. We have absolutely accepted them, and they won't seriously affect our change in this rating. Average rate of taxation, etc. When it comes to tax taxation, we also find ourselves on a normal level. And if you include other pension systems, social funds, that's where our tax burden is getting a lot higher and it's getting a lot bigger than the average in Europe. It is evident that the proposed changes to the Tax Code will partially eliminate these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the representatives of the BUT faction to sign up for a question. No, you have already received the answer to a written question. I'd like you to sign up, dear fellows. Please put your name on the information board. Shishkina, please. Oleg Lazka is entitled to a performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u14	Oleg Ljasko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party of “The Fatherland”. Dear Sergei Leonidovich, yesterday the Supreme Council decided to send a government to organize a national discussion of the draft Tax Code. A draft of the Tax Code, submitted by the government and prepared, including by your participation as vice-premier, has sparked resentment in the country, as it restores the Authority's sovereignty, the irresistible withdrawal of funds from business accounts and mass-mass of other inadequacies that limit business ownership. Tell me, please, how did it turn out that from the government where you're vice-premier in economic policy, you've come up with such a disgraceful document? Why didn't you, as Vice Prime Minister, make an effort not to see this document come into existence at all until it was finalized? And will all the proposals that we've made, which are over 5,000 proposals, be taken into account there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u15	Thank you. Mr. Lazko, I want to say right away that when we looked at the possibility of passing this legislative bill, the draft code, we had a dilemma about what to do: whether to put it off long enough and do it in the fall or to do it quickly, but to pass an imperfect tax code. Why? Because we have a practical option, without looking at what we once had when we were looking at four tax codes in this room, there wasn't. It was decided to submit the tax code that worked with business in 2007. But then the corresponding changes were made by the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration -- and we got the product that we now have. Today we have a fairly normal working group that includes representatives of the Great Four, representatives of Ukrainian employers, Ukrainian entrepreneurs, European business associations, the American Chamber of Commerce, representing investors. And together, we're almost done working on the changes we need, for business, first of all for business. What did you get? All changes have already been made with regard to unwarranted, increased fines, uninterrupted write-offs of taxpayers’ costs without a court decision, no increase in administrative pressure on business entities, unconstitutional tax control measures, no equal liability for both the payer and the state; and no additional checks on payers, which is guaranteed by protection. And now we're going to move in a perfectly clear way for me. Ten days from now, we will be able to discuss with professional people, discuss with opposition representatives, discuss the changes that we are about to make. I can tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u16	Complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u17	There's no need for 5,000 changes. To change the basic problems that are, 150 amendments are sufficient. In order to polish, 300 amendments are needed. And if there was a constructive work in the Supreme Council, we could have a completely normal tax code in this short time. Because it would be easy to consider 300 amendments. And we've already prepared them today. But now we're going to go because we're going to have some consultations and we're going to give you a nice document in the fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u18	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u19	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, however, as it happened, you seem to have released such a disgraceful tax code from the government that is actually destroying small and medium-sized businesses, creating preferences only for the great oligarchic capital that is close to the Party of the Regions. I think you shouldn't have put this signature under this disgraceful tax code, which instead of the five years that promised tax vacations, gave our entrepreneurs a tax Gestapo. And another question. You made a resonant statement about the untransparent corrupt sale of Lugansk. And they did so after Igor Kolomoyski accused the sale in the courts, because the cost was undervalued twice. What led you? That the state didn't get 50 million dollars or your old business connections to the same Igor Kolomayski bank "Privacy". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u20	Thank you. As for the first question, I will answer it. We had a dilemma: whether or not to go back to this topic now and wait for the fall, because we didn't have the tax code ready. And I can say that the previous authority, which worked for five years before that, has done nothing constructive and concrete in this action. And so to this point, we remain at the 181st position of 183 countries under our tax legislation, under its administration. Leaving this situation in this way, I think, is useless. We need to attack this problem, attack it, and not fear it. And despite all the criticism, I can assure you, in two weeks, our Ukrainian society and our business will see a nice tax code. Because all you're talking about is a semi-factory. And in the end, we're going to get a good product. We wanted to speed up the time to get a normal Tax Code in this period before summer, virtually before the end of your session. And once again, I want to emphasize, with three hundred amendments, we would have changed it completely, and we wouldn't have needed a lot of time. Five thousand amendments, that's politics, that's not economics. As far as Luhansképéplica is concerned, indeed, it was a matter of discussion that when Lugansktépórz was being put on sale, it was certainly necessary to place the minimum price at the level at which the money from previous privatization, which was also absolutely, in my opinion, not transparent and absolutely free to access anyone's privatisation. So the money was supposed to be crucial in this competition. When the contest took place, I soon realized that one of the participants had not been admitted. And then, after I called and started to figure out what the reasons were, they wouldn't let them in the evening before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u21	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u22	Tonight, before the day of the contest. That's why I think I've been here no matter who went out there, Colomissky or someone else, oligarchs -- not oligarchs, Ukraine lost at least 200 million dollars, and I think that's completely not clear and wrong. I know there'll be courts again, there'll be returns and there'll be normal investments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u23	Thank you. People's Deputy Olijnik, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u24	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! You're obviously familiar with this subject, but you still have to get an answer. In Ukraine, unfortunately, there is a strange force structure called the Tax Police. This tax police is acting as strange as I think it is. So we took six months of activity data from just one district center. 540 searches and removals were received in the courts regarding businesses, and only one criminal case during that time was sent to the court following the events of 2006. This is a special criminal group that does all day just by doing searches and leasings, taking away the bank's secret and the effectiveness of such activities -- one thing for 540 searches. Why did such a tax police, for which such a structure, a specialnaz, take the initiative of the government last week with its orders? Whether such an organ is needed at all and who is responsible for violating the constitutional rights of citizens where searches and removals are carried out is destabilized by entrepreneurial activity and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u25	Thank you for asking, Mr. Olinick. As for the work of the Tax Administration, the Tax Police, we see that in the last two or two and a half months we have received very many complaints about the work of the Tax Service, the Tax Police specifically. Also, there are many complaints about the work of the customs office. During this time, appropriate measures were taken, several meetings were held with the Tax Administration and with entrepreneurs of different levels, the corresponding letters were sent to me, were held in the fields of meetings of entrepreneurs and taxpayers. And here I can only say one thing, I'm sorry there's such a practice. In order to change this, including, in the first place, I think, we need to work very carefully on the same Tax Code. This is a topic if we reduce the amount of taxes if we make it absolutely transparent to administer these taxes, if we simplify the tax declaration that I think I should consider along with the Tax Code. If we do all of this, then there's less motive for us to come, to do some sort of subtraction, this time. The other one. What we're about to stimulate, reduce tax burden, we're also going to do a good service. So I think if there are any positions that arise specifically, let's look at them. But I understand that we need to change the system, including the Tax Code first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u26	Valerius Pisarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u27	Sergey Leonidovich, I wanted to ask you, to continue the question that you've just raised with regard to the work and activities of the Tax Police. Of course, we won't be able to make any reforms with the tax system with you unless we clear the penal organs for entrepreneurs that exist today. For example, the statistics that my colleague said today that out of a hundred cases, at best, one comes to court -- that would mean that 99 are cases where entrepreneurs are trying to get the money to close these cases. And the question I have is whether it will first consider the Cabinet of Ministers' personal responsibility to manage the tax service. And secondly, here today a bill suddenly appeared in the order of the daily parliament to do something more terrible with the tax police than it is. And that is to make the lead investigators, and more than that, a week ago, we registered the bill that we proposed, in general, to clean up the tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u28	Complete the drafting of the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u29	Last week, we passed a bill that we even proposed to the tax police to clean up and transfer these functions to the police as before. Because today, unfortunately, it is a system of corrupt organs that, unfortunately, no one is responsible and no one is doing anything about it. I'd like to listen to your point of view and support this idea or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u30	Mr. Pisarenko, regarding personal responsibility, I can say that this personal responsibility is certain. And now we see that some ministers are personally responsible for the situation that is in the country in their direction -- regardless of what has literally taken three or four months as they have been assigned. At times, it is enough to show some appropriate changes. With regard to the Tax Administration and the Tax Police, I am convinced today that they do not need any additional powers today. God forbid they can handle the powers that are already in place today. And for them, under these powers, they can perform their functions absolutely peacefully. Although I can say that along with the business with which we are now working on the Tax Code, we will offer ourselves those proposals that will strengthen administration in the direction we need it, the business where we need it. Why? Because to fight tax evasion, to fight tax evasion. With these tax pits that are today, business should, too. And that's what we're going to offer. As for the change in tax administration itself, you know, I told you that we're running a project with the World Bank right now. The World Bank will now help us to work out a good system. We're going to end it in the near future, in a year literally, one and a half years, we're going to end this reform. And everything after that will depend on the politicians in the first place. And now I have a task, I think, to reform it in such a way that it is ready to make political decisions. Sadly, this has not been done until now. We're going to complete this project, and these are the reasons that will be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I now ask you to sign up for the question of all national MPs. It's a recording. Please register with all national deputies. National Deputy Kozub, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u32	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, the business workshop is constantly raising questions about the rise in the draft code of administrative pressure on operators, the application of excessive fines, etc. How would you comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u33	Once the relevant comments had been made and very many of them had been sent primarily to reduce the administrative methods proposed in this Code of Taxation, an appropriate meeting was held under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister, where it was clearly stated that all positions of administration remained at the level at which they are today. There's not one norm we won't be strengthening right now. And we've already worked with the committee on these changes that remain in place, we're not going to increase anything. Except for one thing that I said that business itself would propose the changes that would allow us to fight tax optimisers, and that would be a voluntary decision of the business itself. Everything else will work the way it works now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u34	Okay. Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u35	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” Please give the word to Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u36	Alexander Bondar, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u37	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! I've known you for many years and your last statement as an economist is very surprising. A month later, you just figured out that Lugansképlica was sold opaquely. Although that's what all the experts said on the same day. The market value of the stock market on that day was twice as high. This is enough to determine the transparency of this competition. The other one. You have just admitted that since the age of 15, all the taxes you reduce are going back. From the rostrum, Jaroshenko assured me that this was a mistake in the Tax Code. I mean, you don't have unity in government. And the third. I was sure that after the government passed such a tax code that, well, it wasn't just a lazy economist who was criticizing it. You resign, you continue to protect him. And now you're justifying us that you're going to improve it. Why'd he give it to you at all? Why spoil Ukraine's image like this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u38	Mr. Bondar! More corruption of Ukraine's economic image than the tax legislation that is now operating in Ukraine, we will no longer invent. We're on a level below the level of African countries. And this, and this is the appropriate majority that could change this legislation in five years, has done nothing. That's the first one. So right now we just didn't have much time. And there was only one thing that moved us: the desire to change the situation. And we're going to change it. Because all the criticism that goes on, I want to say again, is the criticism of the semi-factory, the criticism of the legislation that is not accepted, but the one that is proposed. And I'm not defending the proposals that were made. To be honest, members of the Cabinet of Ministers did not get to know the tax code properly. There was no time. Because a decision has been made -- we're giving it what it is now, which is ready. And then, between the first and the second readings, we're going to change it. I told you, 150, up to 300 amendments can change it. We've all made these amendments. And today, if the Tax Code were to be considered, most would support it, and the Ukrainian society would get a nice tax code that wouldn't increase administration, but that would reduce taxes by 43 percent, and so on, would lead to normal positions. As for 2015 and taxes. You know, we need to look at how Ukraine will react. Many countries, but Poland of its own time, when they had no better times than we had, came out of the crisis because they had reduced their tax burden. Let's try and do it ourselves. But how the economy reacts, we don't know yet, we will see. If the rate of return on the economy goes down, I'm sure we won't need to increase and return to the same tax standards that are in force today, and if not, it might happen. Time will tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u39	Jaroslav Suhi refers the right to a question to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u40	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, as far as I'm concerned, I can honestly tell you that the logic is questionable enough to submit a bill and then to make 300 amendments. But not that. I have a very specific question. Sergey Leonidovich, please tell me that populism and demagogism are to end sometime when some people, not you, I know who, impose on the Tax Code a tax on real estate at a time when in European countries this tax is levelled and withdrawn. Please tell me, why is the man who built the house with all his family then retires, and for what should he pay? She built it out of legal revenue because the court didn't recognize it as illegal income, the VAT paid when she bought the building materials, the builders paid. How much does a person have to pay taxes first? And is it not demagogism and populism at all? And we think that people need motivation, they need incentives to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u41	Thank you for asking, Mr. Zarubinski. I can tell you that we see the Supreme Council's reaction to all the issues related to the real estate tax. In fact, in this room, this tax is not going to be fully accepted right now. I think I really agree with your logic and, I think, I should have made our tax legislation, it's a tax on wealth. And that would have to include taxation of large buildings, large buildings, but that doesn't say that they should be affected, well I would say, 90 percent of Ukrainian families, and 10 percent, I'm sure they'll have money to pay for it if they have a space of 500, 600, a thousand square meters. I understand that this is what we're going to take into account, everything else, I think we're not going to do. Thank you. You know, I can say that. You know, when times are tough, society still has to work to redistribute income from the rich to the poor. In times of crisis, the poor cannot only be counted on for the situation. And so, if there's a possibility, I don't think it's going to be some extraordinary tax that's going to discourage the investment of money, but, if there's a possibility of sharing, I think it's going to have to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u42	Kovalevska, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u43	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, please tell us what will happen to our simplified tax system and what to expect from our small business in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u44	Thank you. With regard to the simplified tax system, this chapter in the Tax Code should certainly remain. We've worked very hard on the simplified tax system, because I think the social significance of this system today is extraordinary, just extraordinary, 3 million workers working at the expense of this system. And their businesses, or they as individuals, pay taxes on a simplified system. What's the deal? We've practically found agreement, full agreement with business and what position there will be taken into account. First. The sales tax is going to remain 3 percent plus VAT. or 5 percent. This time. The other one. All social contributions will be paid. All at the minimum wage level. And that will be paid, and those -- I'm talking about legal persons -- and hired workers, and the founders themselves will pay. Some activities on the business itself will be removed from the forgiven system. Why? Because there's a clear optimisation, we're losing taxes, and virtually these kinds of activities aren't for small businesses. And once again, all of our calculations that we've done, by the way, with the tax administration say that the same companies that work at the same scale and in the same direction, by the same types of activities that are on the common system, pay less taxes to the state than on the simplified system. Because of the legal personality, we have a problem here. Yesterday you made a decision, I haven't seen him finally, where he'll pay full pension. I can say that this is going to cause a lot of controversy in society, and I don't think this decision is going to be optimal today. Why? Because natural persons are mostly people who work in markets, they're under different conditions today. They pay the state much less today than they pay for. on a lease.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u46	It's not like these people are paying for the territory service contract. So I think that we can take this step at the same time when we adopt, let's say, the trade law, where we clearly show that this agreement should be transparent, that there should be limited profitability. Let's say it's not very small -- 30-35 percent, and then you can translate it into retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u47	Thank you. Korj passes the right to the question to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u48	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, I have, and not only myself, the impression is that you are more self-advertising today than you are in government. For example, I can't take your banner off my laptop for two days, which, like a fly, flies there, on Ukrainian Truth and on some other sites; the whole of Kiev is hung up by your advertisement that you are a great reformer and are ready to carry out these reforms. Tell me, this Tax Code is your vision of Ukraine or has someone imposed it on you? Because what you've given us is the destruction of not just business, but the destruction of people in fact, the violation of the Constitution. So you've given yourself up, now we're all taking everything out of there together, so that he can at least get some kind of human appearance. I already know about some of your reforms, and it's not just me. In your time working in Kuchma, you reformed a branch called the “cementary” and actually created a French company called La Farge, for which you apparently received the Order of the Honorary Legion. What rewards do you expect this time, and from whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u49	You know, if we're just constantly doing populism, then, in fact, the country just loses. Now, let's get to the point. I didn't introduce my tax code; it was the introduction of the government. This time. First. If you want to see my tax code, in two weeks, you'll see, three weeks tops, because it's still going to have to be done with business. As far as cement industry is concerned. Indeed, during the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Desert Tenko government, some 30 enterprises were reprivatized practically because the State Property Fund made investment commitments to them, and they signed under them, including those of the founders of the City Bank, who went bankrupt and who cheated on their investors who still stole foreign money. He promised to invest it in the Mikolai cement plant, located in the Lviv region. At the time of this privatisation -- the reprivatisation -- this plant had a gas debt, this plant had a payroll debt. After the Western investor arrived, all these debts were withdrawn. Today, the business is working very well. If it were possible to take Ukraine away from such bad investors, the poor investors who had worked in this factory before, I'd be happy to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u50	Jarochuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u52	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u53	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, I am pleased that the government's first time in 10 years since the chat room has moved on. And for the first time in 10 years, we're going to adopt the Tax Code and it's going to be the basis for a new draft budget. I think it was the right decision of both the President and the Government and the majority of Parliament to review the individual provisions of this document and to adopt the Tax Code in September-month. So that he's not only fiscal in character, but he's opening up prospects for business. I think it's the right thing to do. We'll take this law together. But I have a question. From your point of view, what investment prospects does the Tax Code open? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u54	You know, really, criticism is going to be a lot, but yesterday, thanks to the work of the majority, the only social contribution was made. Twelve years went by, twelve years. And thank God that he was received. Business has given us a very good Law on State Procurement. Yesterday you passed an extremely important Law on the Market in Gas. And gradually, step by step, I think we're going to make a lot of smart decisions. By the way, many of them are already here in the Supreme Council. Others are still preparing. In the near future, you will see from the President proposals for technical regulation. Three laws are ready, worked. We're making a whole series of other decisions on sanitary, phytosanitary control and so on. It's something that hasn't been considered in decades. As for the changes that we have proposed that will stimulate business. First of all, the codification itself. There will be no dozens of tax laws, there will be one code. It's very important. In a single document, everything will be encrypted. The other one. We're clearly going to get close to the accounting account. There's not going to be a double, there's going to be companies and triple accounting. Thirdly, from 46 taxes, it's going to go down 43 percent. Local taxes from 14 to 15, central from 28 to 19, simplification will be significant, easier to administer. I am convinced that a reduction in tax burden will stimulate investors over the past five years. It's hard to get out of the crisis today, and in three or four years, they'll be able to raise the circulation money and it'll stimulate it. The fact that we're transferring part of our taxes to the local level and the local levels themselves will be able to reduce it will be good. Two percent will be at the district level and three percent at the district level. You can stimulate, a very important step. So I can say, this isn't the end of the job yet, and we'll work on it and we'll find some other incentives, and I'm pretty sure we need to look at what plane? Allow to reduce.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u56	You have to be able to reduce the income tax on the cost-deposit, part of the money that will be invested in the realignment of businesses. If we do that, we'll get new opportunities. So let's look around and I'm sure we won't look at all the criticism, make a nice document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u57	Sergei Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u58	Good afternoon, Sergey Leonidovich! I didn't realize you said you'd have a new code in two weeks, so you're not on the copyright team of that old code we rejected here last fall? [[I'm here.]] Where's your code where you signed it before, will that be in front? That's the first one. Secondly, I have the impression that you are this codex that you have not read at all. Now, they told the MPs that the profits on the cash register are being transferred and the cash registers are being canceled. They said, let's say that the tax burden on income is decreasing. That's increasing because you've cut the depreciation by one and a half times. By the way, a standard has been introduced for each barrel of leaven to be taxed separately. Or you say, the number of taxes is decreasing. That's right, to the dogs, that's right. But by increasing the tax base on both income and VAT, you're increasing the load. Small businesses alone accounted for $700.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u59	You know, I wouldn't want to go back a few times to the questions, I said we were moving. In extreme cases, we did not hide from the problem of how the authorities hid themselves, which could change the Tax Code, which could have passed tax legislation for five years and which only increased and increased the amount of licensed activities, increased the number of taxes and congregations that are now 146, at least twice the average European level. And that's definitely why the document is bad, but we're going to work it out and get a nice document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u60	Alexander Steshenko passes the right to the question to Yuri Prokopchuk, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u61	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Ravenshkina. Mr. Tihypco, in addition to being one of the co-authors of the Tax Anti-National Code, you are still one of the authors of the anti-national, I believe, anti-State law concerning the social guarantees of military personnel, members of their families, pension insurance. And this applies to all the power structures, both the IMF, and the Security Service, and the border guards, all the people who are in service, who are serving in the state of Ukraine. So tell me, please, this actually caused an outflow of experienced personnel, because you put a 55-year pension rate there. Leaving behind all the social guarantees that are, including the families of the fallen military, which I say again, applies to all the force. Will you continue to hate people in pursuits or will you change your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u62	You know, I wasn't very involved in this job right now, because it wasn't my functional commitment. But I am convinced that we must do everything we can to make sure that the people who today, you said, work in pursuit, the more professional people, must remain in the army, in their work. And what we will need to do to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u63	Peter Cibenko instead of Volintz, a faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u64	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, the theme “The Year of the Government”, which is stated today in connection with the session “Reforming the Tax System”. A key to the topic is definitely a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code. You're called his father, and even if you're actually refusing this today, you're actually one of the co-authors of this document. So please explain how we might have gotten a very weak, openly weak document. I do not remember another document that would yield to such destructive criticism. There's only one thing that proves that you, as vice-premier in charge of this direction, have failed this task. This is an extraordinary confirmation of the fact that in fact the work of this responsible document is being done in the government today, as far as I know, by a few other people. Then please explain whether you are aware of your measure of responsibility for the quality of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u65	You know, if you would allow this document to be properly processed now before it was introduced, this document was not here, this time. It's different. If this document is being handled by other people in the government right now, it won't do any good either. I can say that you know, I take completely all the criticism on the part of most people, and on the part of the opposition, and I understand it seriously. But I can say absolutely calmly that this is a “half factory”. You'll see in the fall a law that will be properly developed and that will support both the domestic business and the investor. Then we'll talk. There's one thing I know. Problems need to be attacked. Until then, tens of years of silence, nothing they had done, only made things worse. Business today is in one of the worst conditions in the world. And we're staying here, 42 positions from 183 countries. And today, everyone has become very concerned about him, and no one really does, they just do politics! And we'll make a case. The one who does is always wrong. Nothing, we'll fix the mistake and do the right thing. Time. Time didn't allow work to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u66	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u67	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Sergey Leonidovich, after your “cavalier attacks” and mistakes, after yesterday's vote, the small business received three times as much weight as it was before your attacks and mistakes. I think there's nothing to ask. When a small business is required to pay 360 dollars to the Pension Fund for the 100 he has already paid, he will, in fact, appreciate your cavalry attacks. And I have a question about something else. There has recently been word on behalf of your party that I am the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, which concludes that it is our committee in the State that is to blame for the failure to reform. We were deeply impressed by this fact because all of your suggestions for reform, particularly with regard to the introduction of the electronic registration system, came very quickly to our committee and were positively supported in the hall. Please tell me, what was that? It was a mistake, was it a deliberate translation of responsibility?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u68	As for yesterday's decision to pay individuals to the Pension Fund, I can say that I was a co-author and initiator of the introduction of a simplified system of taxation. And it was introduced, if I'm not mistaken, in 1999, and so far, it's been working, and it's been able to create a lot of jobs. But I remember how much criticism I had at the time for introducing this simplified system. And I was standing right here, and I almost got ripped up by all the people's deputies. And now everyone's afraid to change it. But I can say that when we accepted, we agreed, every entrepreneur that went to work on such a system should provide at least one pensioner. And then they said, up to 200 bucks, please, if you're going to do business. And that was above the pension premium, then it was. Now it's less than one quarter of the minimum pension. So what I'm saying is, I'm against this decision on individuals that was made yesterday. Why? Because I said, you had to take it in a complex way to hit on the hands of market owners who are giving very serious leases that are very serious. And you know, we'll deal with this very quickly. We are now working on the Trade Law, in which we are obliged to sign transparent agreements. We'll try, we'll try to do it fast enough. As far as those regulatory laws are concerned. You considered it in the first reading. Then the time comes and we do nothing. You're criticizing me for being very bad at moving, and you're going to keep the relevant laws that should have already been passed in the Supreme Council and working for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down and come on, I'm going to the Vice Prime Minister, not to blame who's holding up. Here they work “out of the chariot, ” don’t bring garbage, then everything will be fine. And let us treat the Supreme Council as the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Andrew Pavlovsky, please. So whoever doesn't have a rope comes and starts wiping everyone's legs off the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u70	Andrew Pavlovsky, Party of the Fatherland. Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u71	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Sergio Leonidovich, it's strange to hear from you. So you're telling me I was against the Tax Code. And it's not my code, and what's been brought to the slammer, I'm not involved. Now you're telling me I'm against raising taxes on small businesses yesterday. And again it was a government bill and changes to the budget that were sanctified by the government of which you are a member. If you're against everything that's going on in the government, what are you doing there? If you do not have the opportunity to influence the situation in the government, resign. And if you're against it and you're not being listened to, and you're against it, and here you're demonstrating that you're against it, it's some kind of separation of personality. I'm sorry. I don't know what's going on. Why, if you're the Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Policy, why are they leaving the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u72	Please, dear fellows, no such shouts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u73	First. There is no criticism of the work of the Supreme Council. Why? Because I see how difficult the laws are today in the Supreme Council, and I understand that some of the legislative acts are being postponed, their consideration is being postponed. But on the other hand, there is a desire to change the situation. And I understand why we can change it. I understand that there are positive decisions that can be easily made, because they are not taking any pressure today that will be taken well and above all by society, and above all by deregulation. And that's why there's only one thing to accelerate. As far as retirement is concerned. You know, the thing is, you have to do as much as you can. And you can agree with something, you can disagree with something, but you have to work. And what the government seems to be, I'm assigning this responsibility and I'm taking part in my responsibility, of course, and I'm taking this criticism normally. But I won't knock on the door, I'll work as hard as I can. And as long as it takes, I'm going to change the situation that we're in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u74	Ivan Stojko. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u75	Thank you. John Stojko, “For Ukraine!” Dear Sergey Leonidovich, it's really strange to hear you in this rostrum, you're posing yourself as a real reformer, but unfortunately, in the team that I think is retrograde, it's strange to hear what you're justifying today. But nevertheless, I believe that the proponent is what we've sent to the public discussion of this codex. As soon as he was not called from the Gestapo and so on. I have my first question. Please tell me, wouldn't it be better if we sent him to the Cabinet, as you say, in two weeks, there'll be another bill? The second question. Still, this code is your child, it's your handwriting, and you can honestly tell me if this is a child born by Mikla Janović Azar, the retrogrades who are completely unaware of today's state and want to bring us back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u76	As far as the public discussion is concerned, I can say that, in fact, putting the Tax Code, a sufficiently professional document, into public discussion, is difficult. And I know one thing that's supposed to be done first by professional people, and then we can consult society as a whole. What we're going to try in two or three weeks and do. For what reason do we ask everyone who wants to do this professionally? What about whose document is this? This is a document from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and I am a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. If necessary, I ask the secretariat there to prepare appropriate appeals, commission to the executive authorities, please form them. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have Friday’s time to announce the parliamentary requests. Allow me to make a statement of the MP's requests. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine on the initiative of the Lugansk Communist Party of Ukraine to change the text of the Hymn of Ukraine and put it on the music of the Hymn of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, which is a bold attack on the national symbols of Ukraine and requires a proper response from the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:18:00]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Eugene Kzarkov to the President of Ukraine for not allowing the state stadium of Ukraine in Lviv to be named "Lemberg" or the name of Bandera. [[11:18:34]] For 235 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:18:57]] For 236 Decision taken. Andrija Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of a substantial increase in debt from payment of wages. Vasil Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a critical situation that has resulted in the reparation of the flood victims of the Zacarpathian region. Gregory Omelchenka to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the purpose of examining the facts of the destruction and use of the funds of the Stabilization Fund and other violations in the implementation and enforcement of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 844 of 5 August 2009 by officials of the State Committee on Land Resources. Gregory of Omelchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General for the illegal release of the Deputy Chief of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine in the Kyiv region of Jurija Vezmitin, Vezmitinova and the involvement of officials of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine for the provision of incomplete and unreliable information to Ukraine's national deputy. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister for the construction of new cleaning facilities in the city of Andrušovka Žitomirsk. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister on the need to carry out, according to the legislation, a system for the calculation of hazardous explosives and the complex disposal of chemical weapons, with the aim of reducing technological stress in the country. Igor Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the 2010 "Plan of Priorities for the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union". Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal destruction of sports objects in the territory of the National Sports Complex "Olympic" without the approval of a plan of action for their restoration. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the integration of state-owned enterprises with a sport profile within the framework of the state-owned enterprise "The Unification of Sports and Economic Buildings". Olga Gerasimük to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of the destruction of the principles of education policy in Ukraine. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund to Mariupol City Hospital No. 1 for the purchase of blood purification drugs for chronic renal failure. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister on the ability of the gas industry from their homelands to provide for the needs of the population and the municipal economy. Zarubinsky's Oleg to the Prime Minister on long-term systemic measures to prevent floods, eliminate floods and protect the population from their consequences. Alexander Efraemova to the Prime Minister for the debt of partial repayment of the interest rate on commercial banks to young families and single young citizens for the construction, reconstruction and acquisition of housing. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve. Sergey Moshak to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the purpose and efficiency of using the budget in replacing the light-signalling equipment of the Municipal Enterprise Kyiv International Airport. [[Dwarves]] Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the improper reaction of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the parliamentary appeal for the purposeless use of money of 125 million dollars by officials of the Open Shareholders Association "Ak Kyivvodokal" and the Closed Shareholder Company "Kiivenergoholding" for the purchase of tomatoes, spikes and other agricultural products for foreign trade and for the conversion to a non-cash bankrupt company, of 40 million dollars, which were paid to the Chinese for utility tariffs. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister for the partial compensation of the interest rate on commercial banks to young families and single young citizens for the construction and acquisition of housing. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister to compensate for the costs associated with the construction of refrigerators with a regulated gas environment. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the use of urgent measures to respond to the pollution by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation of the Crimean Environment, which causes considerable damage to the State and people of Ukraine and can lead to serious consequences; the involvement of the guilty in the responsibility, warning and non-pollution of Ukraine's environment by foreign and domestic owners. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on reducing Ukraine's foreign exchange payments for imported natural gas and reducing gas consumption by replacing it with forest biofuels. [[The mosquito, the Sulkovsky, and others]] Igor Savchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service, Attorney General on the verification of violations of land legislation by the Brovarsky City Council of the Kyiv region. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on violations of legislation by members of the State Automobile Inspectorate in Zaporizki, Mikolayev and Chernigov areas, which has been banned from moving activists of the Front Change Political Party to the city of Kiev to participate in a rally aimed at non-admission. the adoption of an unconstitutional law on local elections. Edward Prutnik to the Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need to address the collective appeals of educators and librarians of the Bachmachmack and Lowland regions of the Chernigiv region in order to improve the material and technical base of rural schools, create the right conditions for the rest of rural children and prepare educational institutions for the new school year. Eduard Prutnik to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on the need for a review of the address of the resident of the village of Smutnów in the region of Czernigiv district of Olga Sharoy on the possibility of forming a widow’s pension as a result of an accident on the first category of the Chernobyl AES. Eugene Zarkov to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Protection of Constitutional Rights of Ukrainian Citizens and the address of the civil society organization Do not keep quiet. Mikoli Derkach to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the construction of a landing platform in Sinielkiwo Dnipropetrovsk district. Mr. Krawchenka is head of the Security Service, Head of the State Tax Administration, Minister of Health, Attorney General, Head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration for violations of Ukrainian legislation in medical practice by the founders of the Society with limited responsibility "ULIS". Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine on the use of necessary measures to prevent the destruction of cultural acquisitions by the Museum of Architecture and the National Historical and Ethnographical Reserve of Pereaslav. Alexander Blackwolf to the Minister of Education and Science about explaining the specialty of hydrotechnic engineering. Helen Bondarenko to the Director-General of the National Radio Company of Ukraine for clarification of the reasons and reasons for the closure of the program "20 minutes with Volodymyr Yavorowski". Olga Gerasimük to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the purpose of verifying the appeal of a citizen of Svetlana Gondl with a complaint about the actions of employees of the Office for Combating Organized Crime of Melitopol of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zaporozhye region. Paul Silent told the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine about the statement by Russian Federation Ambassador Mikhail Zurabov that the Ukrainian and Russian people were not just brotherly peoples, but the only people. Sergey Vlasenka to Minister of Interior, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the head of the village council in the area of the removal of the land. Sergey Gordienka to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, for making appropriate procedural decisions regarding the commission by state officials of crimes against the head of the farm "Department-Agro" of the Goodima Hope in the village of the city-type Vojtovci of the Hmeljna Region. Sergei Gordienka to the minister of justice, the minister of Ukraine in matters of family, youth and sports, the Attorney General, the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration regarding the urgent measures taken to protect the rights and legitimate interests of the minor orphan Victoria Trophimus. Stepan Dawimuka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Non-Monopoly Market Monopolisation of the Cable Television Market of Ukraine by a foreign company called Will Cable. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the continuation of the exploitation of the Andrija Mališka Park in Kiev, the involvement of officials who authorized the vandal destruction of the park and the cessation of further destruction by the city of Kiev by the city of Kiev. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, the Chief of Justice in the Lviv Region, for the purpose of verifying the gross violation by the leaders of the Open Shareholders Association of Western Buildings of the constitutional rights of employees to pay for work, social protection and a sufficient standard of living, deliberately avoiding the payment of insurance contributions to general government pension insurance, the purposeless use of the company's funds, the excess of the official powers and the deliberate admission of a formerly held enterprise to bankruptcy, the use of appropriate measures to respond to violations of the current legislation of Ukraine and the prosecution of criminal depravity. Vejacheslav Koval to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the terms of the parliamentary appeal of 8 April 2010 on the abuse of Viktor Kačula's official position as editor of the All-Ukrainian Public and Literature-Artist newspaper Krymska Lumenica. Sveslav Piscona to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine by individual citizens and judges of Ukraine on the basis of a previous conspiracy. Dmitry Schlemk to the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, interference in the process of their personal election by President Stanislav Skubashewski of Ukraine's Administration. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Olewi district law enforcement authorities in the settlement of the property dispute between the Society with limited liability "Legars Legal Consulting" and the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine "Friendly Career of the Rudchenka Mines of Quartz". Sergey Majbearda to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the introduction of a residential building on the street of Soniacny, 5 in the city of Vasilkovi Kyiv district. Maybearda's Sergey to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the private enterprise Klim Bilding Industries in Kiev. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of information on the monitoring of journalists and the management of the TiVi Channel. [[Heratchenko, Bondarenko and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding information regarding the enforcement by Edward Matviychuk of the Odessa District Administration of the requirements for effective legislation in the decision-making and implementation of the decision on the withdrawal of the District State Administration from the number of co-founders of the Black Sea News district newspaper. [[Heratchenko, Bondarenko and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the non-reaction of the Attorney-General's Office, the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev with regard to the actions of officials of the Society with limited responsibility "BK Elitebud" and the Society with limited responsibility "Techcomp" during the construction work at the Forest Ukraine Boulevard, 7-9 in the Pechersky district of Kiev and the unobjectivity of decisions taken by the courts in cases 2-297\09 of 19 January 2009 and 22-2737 of 4 June 2009. [[Koval, Matvienko, Bilozer, and others]] Mikoli Katerinczuk and Irina Heratschenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights of television speakers. Mikoli Katerinczuk and Irina Heratschenko to the Attorney General on violations by officials of the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Andrija Pavlovski to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the non-admission of illegal park closure and the destruction of green plants on Shumsky Street, 3rd in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Vladimir Kozak to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority on the Society's illegal activity with limited responsibility "CP Central Market" in the territory of the "Ozerka" market in the city of Dnipropetrovsk and the need to take immediate action by the executive authorities. Dear colleagues! 78 requests made. Let's move on to our next job. We need to include several drafts in the agenda, Your Honor. I'll put it to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. First of all, dear fellows, I was approached by national deputies with an appropriate address. Since we will now consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill 6682, it refers to the amendment of the Law on the State Tax Service of Ukraine, and the deputies claim that they also have Bill 6664 of 06.07. 10th year on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation, which also applies to the Tax Police. [[on improving the system of law enforcement authorities with a view to improving the investment climate in the state]] That's why I'm going to put it first. We're not going to be able to look at them at the same time, because by procedure we can look at them in the evening session when we get into the agenda. So I'm going to put the vote in the agenda first on Bill 6664 and then on the next 6682 because it was registered earlier. No objections? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of Act 6664, the authors of the Ukrainian National Deputies Philippeenko, Pisarenko, Oliynik and Vorotnuk. About getting into the daytime. [[11:34:22]] For-19 The offer is not supported. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine. [[on the structure of the tax police]] Please vote. [[11:34:54]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we will have the opportunity to consider this law, but not at this morning's meeting. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please, from factions per minute. Stanislaw Arzewittin, then Oleg Lazko, and still who will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u78	Mr. President of the Supreme Council, I would like to point out that the drafting of this bill is in grave violation of the rules of procedure. So yesterday we accepted it in the first reading, today taken to the hall for second reading. In fact, we don't have a table today, the committee hasn't considered this question, so today we have to take it out of the agenda. I'll make a statement on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u80	Oleg Lazko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of "The Fatherland". Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I appeal to you to remove this bill from consideration, because the people's deputies have not been able to amend it to this bill, you have no right to deprive us of the opportunity to amend it, because this is a very important bill, and this is whether or not the last chance we have to take. To direct the National Bank not only to speculative operations that it has not performed once. And to help the country's economy and state as a whole. And in order to realize this, you have to give us the opportunity to make adjustments, and the proposals, and hopefully the coalition will take these changes into account for the very domestic economy. Not the speculative capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u81	Thank you. So from another faction there are suggestions, observations? Dear colleagues! You and I have made a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this bill, and I ask your attention, Your Honor, to consider this bill before the end of the session. The Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in this regard. A number of deputies have now issued warnings about the relevance and possibility of being considered in the second reading of the draft Law. [[Registration number 6659]] So I'm going to ask this question for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I am putting to the vote a proposal for us to now, taking into account the previous decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to consider in the second reading regime the draft Law 6659 amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please vote. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! [[11:38:22]] For 236 Dear colleagues! I ask you, I appeal to the members of the committee who work on it when the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a decision so you work on the committee if so. So, please, where's Poluniev? Please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, they'll be put to the vote now, let's put them to the vote, let's give it to the reporter as well. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, everything is in order. I'm asking you once a week to come and tell me about the Rules! You're working, please! We will now vote on your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u82	Yesterday, a draft Ukrainian Act was adopted “To amend certain legislative acts concerning the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine”. The main part of the bill is based on the recommendations of the world's best experts and the adoption of this law will allow for the creation of a truly perfect legal field for regulating the activities of the National Bank. The bill provides for amendments to the National Bank Act, which relate to the following key provisions: First. With regard to the objectives and activities of the National Bank, it is envisaged that, in carrying out the main function of ensuring the stability of the national currency, the National Bank should come from the priority of ensuring price stability in the state. The other one. If this does not hinder the stated goal, the National Bank of Ukraine contributes to the stability of the banking system. And the third. The National Bank contributes to sustained economic growth and supports economic policies in the country if this does not prevent both targets from being achieved. According to a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine made a commitment to reorient monetary processes into inflationary targeting. And this is a very important fundamental change in this law that allows our National Bank to really be placed in the modern field of monetary policy. The other one. It is predicted that a clear order of distribution of the income of the National Bank of Ukraine is being established. Third. The guarantees of political independence of the National Bank of Ukraine, which are so important, are being strengthened. It is suggested that the requirements, the qualifications of members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, should be clearly defined, as well as the grounds for their termination. It is envisaged that the National Bank will have 11 people in number. As to clarifying the competence and order of interaction between the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine and the government, this is an important moment in this bill. And we're proposing to adjust the authority of the National Bank Board, the government of the National Bank. With regard to the prohibition of direct lending to the State, about increasing transparency in the National Bank, informing society about important decisions taken by the National Bank in the area of refinancing, in the area of monetary policy and so forth. To implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, from July 8, that is, from yesterday on the final adoption of this bill to the conclusion of this session and its inclusion before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u83	Yeah. Well, we passed this bill yesterday, so don't tell us again. Let's just go through with it. Yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u84	The committee met urgently and considered the bill. The moment the committee came together, no comments, no suggestions from the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u85	At 3: 30 p.m., 3: 30 a.m., the committee met.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u86	Yes. Discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u87	The committee decided to support the bill unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u88	Discussed. Now, dear fellows,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u89	People's deputies would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, so that we don't have any charges, and so that we can, one minute, well, one minute to make a balanced decision, now I'm going to put all these amendments in writing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the Supreme Council will consider it, and then we will finally make a decision. I'm sure this will take away the opposition in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u91	That's logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u92	Please, Carmazine's microphone, and then the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin. Like the national deputy of Arjevetin, I also made adjustments. Apparently, at 3:30, when the committee where he was going to the cottage, I don't know where the committee was going, none of the national deputies knew about it, it's not appropriate, no one was informed about it, six deputies were introduced there and so on. But I would like to draw your attention now, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the conclusion of the Legal Authority, which in the middle of the day can be concluded but concluded. I read: “It gives you reason to conclude that much of the bill’s provisions are contrary to the rules adopted on July 08, in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the adoption of the Budget Code. This refers to the changes proposed to the budget code" and so on. In this way, he supports the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office that this bill should be finalized and writes about non-compliance with article 98 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u94	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u95	I'm finishing up, Yuri Carmazin. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the Legal Department writes that it supports the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, and I'll tell you that he's mostly negative. Keep going. And it speaks of the failure to comply with the requirements of article 98 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the drafting of the draft text as a comparative table. No comparison.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u96	Thank you. I'm talking to the people's deputies again. Don't push me to break the Rules. Do not make the decision that we have dealt with the laws so expeditiously. Now let's do the repairs. Oleg Láška's microphone, then Stanislav Arzvetin, please. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u97	I've already expressed my opinion on the inadmissibility of adopting this law, but I'm looking at the real thing and I see that most people are still voting for it. So I suggest you accept mine, vote, support at least the amendment I gave to Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please read the text. What is the purpose of this amendment? I propose in the Final Positions that the National Bank lend credit to commercial banks that lend the real economy to the percentage of the corresponding annual ones. Because today's financial crisis is not a fire, it's a catastrophic drought that needs to be treated with money. At the National Bank today, money is being removed from the economy. And as a result, the catastrophic deficit of these funds. We have three months in a row of deflations observed, prices dropping. Why? Because people have nothing to buy food or goods for. That's why we have the task of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I will now put the amendments to Oleg Lachak's vote. First amendment. Article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine should be supplemented by a new paragraph: “.is making a refinancing of the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund”. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. Please identify yourself. [[11:46:50]] For-72 Correction not supported. Amendment number 2. Section XV of the End-of-life Bill complements a new point: “The National Bank of Ukraine in 2010 to make a long-term refund of 50 billion dollars at the rate of 3% of the annual commercial banks that are lending the real sectors of the economy of Ukraine”. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. [[11:47:28]] For-58 The amendment is not accepted. Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to facilitate your participation, I have made suggestions that relate exclusively to Ukrainian citizens. And I'd like to point out that this is about a population fund. The second amendment is that this law removes mortgage loans for individuals, which we have taken care of for so long. I wanted when we got to these amendments, please note that everything about the independence of the National Bank, too much of the independence that was prescribed here, I didn't even make the amendment, I made the technical amendments. And I'm very much asking for these two amendments that apply to Ukrainian citizens, once again, I'm stressing: the creation of a population deposit guarantee fund and the mortgage lending that they have removed, the individuals, I've asked you very much, please support, this is not about banks and not about independence, but it's about our Ukrainian citizens. So please put my amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the amendments of Stanislav Arjewitin. First amendment. In the second paragraph of paragraph 1 of section 1, replace the words “money-credit liabilities” with the words “money-credit liabilities of the National Bank of Ukraine”. I'll bet you a vote. Oh, two? Two? Take down the vote. Please. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. What do you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Well, then I ask you to put technical questions to the vote. I just brought it here. I focused on two of my amendments. And these are technical changes. Well, if the law refers to monetary liabilities, it's obviously the National Bank. Therefore, I ask the words “National Bank” to be added, “Money-credit commitments to the National Bank of Ukraine”. Because there is a lot of commitment. So I'm asking the technical question to include. By the way, this amendment is both scientific and expert management and legal administration. It's for a known reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u102	Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u103	The bill clearly sets and sets a time limit. And the term used in the bill is used as a monetary commitment to the National Bank of Ukraine. Nothing else is involved. Because this, this revision is actually really purely technical. And it's not a principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! I'm voting for the amendment of the first Stanislav Arjevetin. Please vote. [[11:50:19.]] For-39 No correction supported. Second item. In paragraph 13 of paragraph 1 of section 1 in the definition of the term “formal rate of the National Bank”, the words “one of the monetary instruments” should be replaced by the words “monetary instrument”. Please, Stanislav Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a technically correct formulation, which is supported by both scientific and expert management and legal administration. About the word “one of” being excluded. Well, it's not beautiful, and it sounds wrong. If this is a monetary instrument, it has to be written that: “a formal rate is a monetary instrument”. Nor should it be written “one of” or “best” or “worst”. I think that's the correct wording.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u107	In accordance with article 25 of the National Bank Act, the National Bank uses a wide range of monetary policy instruments. So let's say that to an account rate is a monetary instrument that's wrong. One of the monetary instruments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u108	I bet on the vote of Amendment 2. [[11:51:40]] For-27 Correction not supported. 3 amendment: in paragraph 18 (1) of Section I, in the definition of the term “price stability” the words “measured by the consumer price index” shall be deleted. I'll bet you a vote. Microphone, please, Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, this is also of a technical nature, but if we say that ability, price stability is stability, it is still the text of "the stability of inflation rates measured by the consumer price index". It's called butter. Well, obviously the inflation rate is measured by the consumer price index, that's a waste of words. And that's also a position held by the legal authorities, the scientific and scientific authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u110	If you accept this proposal, the definition of the term will not be complete, since the consumer price index itself is an indicator that describes the dynamics of the overall price level of goods and services purchased by the population. So I think we should leave it in the way it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u111	I'm betting on a vote of 3 amendments. [[11:53:03]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 4 Amendment: Section I, paragraph 2, paragraph 4, reads: “To supplement the law with article 5 with the symbol 1 of the following content: “Article 5.1 ‘Communication to distribution’. Gaining profits is not the goal of the National Bank. The National Bank determines the profit to be distributed by reducing income in the amount of unrealized income. The National Bank directs unrealized income to the revaluation reserve. Unrealized income that becomes realized in subsequent periods is included in the income distribution in the corresponding reporting periods. The National Bank compensates for overruns over the amount of the revaluation reserve for this year's income, and if it is insufficient for the total reserves. The National Bank directs the amount of funds identified as income to the distribution after confirmation of the external audit and approval by the Board of the National Bank of the Annual Financial Reporting in this order: 50 per cent of the income to the distribution is directed towards the general reserves and other reserves of the National Bank, accounting to the general reserves is made until the total reserves amount is equal to 10 per cent of the national bank’s monetary and credit liabilities, 30 per cent of the income to the distribution is counted in the next reporting year to the national budget of Ukraine, 20 per cent of the income to the distribution is recalculated in the following reporting year to the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Persons. Following the formation of the total reserves as foreseen in part five of this article, 80 percent of the income in the government budget of Ukraine is counted in the next reporting year. Yes, please, Stanislaw Arjevetin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a technical item at all. It's about Ukrainian citizens. It's about investors. It's about the People's Investment Guarantee Fund. Today, there's a rule when all the profits that the National Bank has earned, it's going to the Cabinet of Ministers. It's an active norm. The bill provides for this amount to be divided into two parts: one part, 50 percent for the formation of the National Bank’s reserves, the other 50 percent for the Cabinet of Ministers. This year, it's going to be 10 billion dollars in revenue from the National Bank. My proposal to change this structure is to leave 50 percent in the reserves of the National Bank, 30 percent in the Cabinet of Ministers, and 20 percent in the Population Guarantee Fund. This rule was once in the National Bank Act, and it was removed. I remind you, we guaranteed you 150,000. Today, we have about 5 billion in the guarantee fund, and we have 150 billion in deposits and the same amount outside the banking system. If we don't get this rule involved, we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u113	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen. If we don't fill out a population investment guarantee fund in this way, we won't be able to provide you with a standard of 150,000 returns for one contribution to the citizens of Ukraine. I'm asking you so much, we have to do everything we can to make people believe that we're protecting them. We're filling up a guarantee fund. I'm asking you very much, let's support this non-technical amendment, this is about deposits in financial institutions. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u115	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u116	I think it's important to reject the position, despite its bright, kind of, you know, bright populist appeal. Why? Because according to the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian State Budget Laws, all the revenue of the national authorities - the National Bank is a state authority - is reflected in the State Budget. The National Bank does not have the right to directly finance state institutions. This, as noted by Honourable Stanislaw Mikhajlovich, should be financed and regulated by other laws, including the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u117	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 4 of Stanislav Aragritin. I read it, dear colleagues. [[11:57:33]] For-27 No correction supported. Are you insisting on the next one? Arjevitina's microphone. Five-a, six-a, seven-a, and ten-a.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u118	Your Honor, the next amendment speaks of the following. Today, according to the Constitution, the National Bank has two functions: the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit and the stability of the banking system. So the second function under this law on the independence of the National Bank is gone, because now the support for the stability of the banking system, and this is about the investors that we are talking about with you and those other creditors, today the National Bank is putting it on the second, third and the norm written down as follows: The National Bank, within its powers, contributes to the stability of the banking system and is reported here, “as long as this does not impede the achievement of the objectives defined in the preceding parts.” Please tell me, if the Constitution clearly defines these two functions, why confuse them, why do it in such a way as to avoid liability if the National Bank does not ensure the stability of the banking system. Who needs such independence from the National Bank when it is not responsible for the stability of the banking system? I got you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the proposed bill makes an important systemic change in the priorities of the National Bank. For the first time, emphasis is being placed on keeping the country's price stability in the long term, without changing the constitutional mandate of the National Bank. I think that the text that we have adopted should be supported. What Stanislav Mikhailovich says is absolutely unchanged. This law does not remove all the regulatory functions of the National Bank in the area of banking supervision and financial stability of the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u120	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 5. [[11:59:47]] For-24 I didn't accept the amendment. Sixth repair. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u121	People's deputies, that's a formal amendment, of course. But I just wanted to talk about how this bill was prepared. Article 8 reads, duplicates, one in another, the task of the Council of the National Bank as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. So the question is, why, if there's a constitutional document -- and one in one is the only sentence written in this article? I don't understand logic or necessity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u122	I propose to reject Arjevetine's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u123	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 6. [[12:00:39]] For 20 Correction not supported. 7th Amendment, Stanislav Arjewitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u124	Dear, the 7th amendment is also of such an editorial nature: not to repeat twice the “national authority” or “in other public authorities”. But I wanted to focus on another. In this amendment, by the way, there were a lot of fights here, especially by the Communists, for the National Bank and the Council to work transparently. Thus, today this decree has increased to 11 members of the National Bank’s government. The head of the National Bank is from 5 to 7 years old. Personally, the salary is now set in a separate position. At the National Bank, the system of government officials and their own system of assigning ranks and paying wages continues to operate. If you are in a position to do so, please support. But I don't think you've had that kind of support since last year. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! I shall now put to the vote Amendment 7. Then let us consult about the break. There is a suggestion that we do not take a break because we are in the process of dealing with the issue. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the 7th amendment. [[12:02:14]] For 20 Correction not supported. 8 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u126	May I speak to you at once, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u128	Dear National Deputies! This amendment applies to the members of the Supervisory Board. The law basically states that members of the National Bank’s Supervisory Board cannot be MPs, well, other persons. Deputies of the Supreme Council. And this point in the final positions says that it does not extend to the deputies of today. So this rule is deferred to the end of their terms of reference. Two years later, these standards can be changed, and the final positions can also be changed. For example, write the phrase, continue it by 4. So I suggest you remove it. If we decide that the members of the Supreme Council do not have the right to be members of the Supervisory Board, as recorded in the main text of the law, we should not seek ways in the final positions to invalidate this article. That's why I'm here to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u129	I suggest we turn it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u130	I'll bet vote on the 8th amendment. [[12:03:32]] For-21 Correction not supported. The ninth amendment. Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u131	Dear National Deputies! It's also, by the way, an amendment for people. You and I introduced into a law at a time of crisis that, for individuals who invested their money in housing, we wrote down a rule that under a simplified procedure, there is a long-term refinancing of commercial banks under mortgage loans granted by the bank to the population. So we wrote this rule down with you to solve the mortgage problem. And for a period of crisis, to make this norm work, it's written in the law, it's now being eliminated. And my proposal is to continue its operation until the end of 2012. How many times have we talked to you about mortgage problems, how many times have we suffered for this, now we're removing this rule, please tell us where our sequence is? I suggest you think about it, because it's about Ukrainian citizens who have mortgage lending problems, please support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u132	The long-term financing of the housing construction referred to in this amendment does not correspond to the constitutional function of the National Bank. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court of 24 November 2009 on a similar question regarding the refinancing of banks with the aim of lending support to agri-industrial enterprises. The main function of the National Bank, the constitutional objective, is the stability of the national currency and price stability in the country. So I'm asking the people's deputies to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u133	I'm betting on the vote on the ninth amendment. [[12:05:28]] For-19 The amendment is not accepted. Yuri Carmazin's microphone, moving on to Carmazin's revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Strangely, of course, when the table does not address these issues, but I propose a paragraph in the Act “O Nazbank”, paragraph 1 of the article defining the term “money-credit policy” in the following wording: “Money-credit policy is a set of regulatory measures and actions carried out directly by or through the Central Bank in the area of money circulation and credit aimed at regulating economic growth, curbing inflation, ensuring the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit and balancing the balance of payments. But they are being implemented through the money market in all its kinds, including the currency, through the use of the means and methods defined by this law, because not only the National Bank but also other authorities of the state are involved in the implementation of these actions and measures. The definition of monetary policy should have clearer economic boundaries, covering both the money market and the banking system. Because the monetary system is systemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, as stated in the current draft law, the definition of monetary policy is consistent with modern international standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u136	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 1, Yuri Karmazin. There's 52 amendments, so we have to work. [[12:07:15]] For-26 Correction not accepted. 2nd Amendment. Yuri Anatolyovich microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 defines the term “last-institution creditor” in the following wording: “the last-editing creditor is the National Bank of Ukraine, which can be contacted by a bank established and operating in Ukraine, other than foreign banks and their subsidiaries, as well as by participating banks or beneficiary banks registered in offshore zones or other states to obtain a refinancing in the event of the exhaustion of other refinancing possibilities”, is the end of the quote. I explain that this is caused by the fact that taxpayers' costs should not come to finance the activities of banks that do not belong to Ukraine. They should be financed by other states, the owners of the “Ukrprombank” and “Nadra”, which are linked to the people of the Party of Regions, have not paid the money to citizens, have hidden themselves and are not held accountable, thanks to the National Bank, which has delayed the introduction of temporary administrations and has failed to ensure timely arrest of archives. In addition, offshore companies in Cyprus are operating thanks to Communists who are constantly blocking the denunciation of the Cyprus Offshore Agreement. Yes, the second amendment is being voted on. [[12:08:49]] For-32 The decision is not supported. Jury Carmazin's third amendment, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the patriots for their support for my amendments, and I propose to make the definition in a paragraph that complements the first article after the definition of “metal accounts” as follows: “National auditing standards are documents adopted by the Auditorium of Ukraine that define the auditing standard by replacing the word “international” with the word “national”. Since the decision of the Ukrainian Auditorium of 30.11.2006 established the mandatory application by audit entities of international auditing standards as national standards starting on January 1, 2007. We must have our national standards, which should certainly be no worse than international standards. May I have your support, folks?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u139	I'll bet the vote on the third amendment. [[12:10:01]] For-40 No correction supported. Fourth Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you to the patriots who support the amendments, and I think there will be more of them, I suggest that we define them in a paragraph that complements the first article after the definition of “metal accounts” as follows: “national financial reporting standards” are approved by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, which defines the standards of financial reporting and accounting by changing the word “international” to “national” and removing the reference to international financial reporting standards in the Council's adoption of international accounting standards that define financial reporting and accounting standards. Because these essentially legal acts, which are mandatory for all subjects of business activity in Ukraine, have not been ratified in accordance with the law. Thank you. And I think that's how we're going to make it impossible for those processes that happened before in the banking system in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u141	I'll bet you a vote on the 4th amendment. [[12:11:21]] For-41 The amendment is not accepted. 5 revisions. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin. It's an extremely important repair. I demand that the definition in paragraph 1 of Article 1 be renewed, the definition of the term: “Basic principles of monetary policy”. “The basic principles of monetary policy are a set of variable financial indicators that enable the National Bank of Ukraine to implement monetary policy tools, tools and methods to regulate money circulation and regulation of the economy in order to ensure the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit as a monetary precondition for economic growth and support for high levels of employment.” End of quote. Because this is a way to take control of the management of the National Bank from the side of the National Bank and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What will this lead to? Everyone has already seen when the National Bank cheated citizens, specifically reduced the dollar rate to ensure that it could be bought by foreign banks and other banks to pay off their creditors, which led to great inflation. So, Your Honor, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u143	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 5. [[12:12:51]] For-47 Correction not supported. 6th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the state's patriots for getting bigger. Please support the paragraph that complements Article 1 with the definition of the term ‘Formal rate of the National Bank of Ukraine’. I propose this in the following wording: “The formal rate of the National Bank of Ukraine is expressed as a percentage of the pay taken by the National Bank of Ukraine for the refinancing of commercial banks by buying bills before the date of payment of them, and is maintained by the nominal amount of the bill, which is the lowest among the refinancing rates and one of the monetary instruments by which Natzbank sets up for banks and other entities of the monetary market a guide on the value of the funds involved and placed.” End of quote. This is the rule that the National Bank violated when a large number of foreign banks of wealthy countries, as well as those who were not citizens of Ukraine, received illegal refinancing from the National Bank for many years at a low rate. And up to 30 percent of those loans went to the state and didn't come back. The government doesn't get interest on loans. To avoid that, please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u145	I'll take a vote on the 6th amendment. [[12:14:21]] For-47 7th Amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. I am indignant that Mr. Chechetov does not keep his promises. Yesterday I promised to bring the poster and everything. He brought no posters, and today he does not support Ukraine’s financial system. In article 1, paragraph 1, I propose to renew the deleted term: “accountable and lombard interest rates” are set out in the following wording: “the rate of refinancing of the National Bank of Ukraine is expressed as a percentage of the payment of loans to commercial banks established by the National Bank of Ukraine with a view to affecting money traffic and credit. The National Bank shall set accounting and pawnage interest rates.” Because an attempt to exclude this term can allow us to continue the very banking affairs that have taken place in the theft of investors, thanks to the leadership of the National Bank and the leadership of our committee that are now continuing this policy. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u147	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 7. [[12:15:46]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 8th Amendment? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the patriots of Ukraine, I think that they will be joined by the faction of the Lithuanian Block, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I personally urge you to do so. In article 1, paragraph 1, I propose the definition of “price stability” in such an edition. “The price stability is to maintain a price system at a certain level to support a stable currency exchange rate in Ukraine and to preserve the purchasing power of the national currency by maintaining it in the short term over the year and in the medium term from 3 to 5 years of low stable inflation rates measured by the consumer price index.” [[Especially after your secester yesterday.]] End of quote. Nazbank's leadership, which has deceived Ukrainian citizens, has specifically reduced the dollar's rate to ensure that it can be collected by foreign and other banks to pay off their creditors, which has led to inflation, the raising of loans for millions of citizens and the illegal ban on Nazbank by issuing deposits to citizens and paying interest to them, that's exactly what it is. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u149	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 8. [[12:17:12]] For-44 Correction not supported. Amendment 9. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the patriots. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you obviously forgot to press the button. Article 1 suggests that this should be supplemented by a paragraph. “Beautiful business reputation is a group of confirmed information about a person who makes it possible to draw conclusions on the professional and managerial abilities of such a person, in particular that he was not a member of that banking institution or their supervisory bodies, in which temporary administrations were introduced during his work, his integrity and compliance with the requirements of the law.” End of quote. There should be no access to the banking system of bankers who were organized with the support of both Yushchenka and Stelmak, and Azarova, who blocked the consideration of the bills that we had made with the people's deputies and the year we were here. The country must be set up to be these affairs. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u151	I'll bet you a vote on the 9th amendment. [[12:18:34]] For-45 Correction not accepted. 10 revisions. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin. 10 revisions. Dear National MPs, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have called on all patriots, I know your bloc is patriotic. And I think Chechetov also, he's out there giving commands about writing posters for my support. Mr. Mikhailo, take this seriously. Part two, I suggest you put it in the following line: “The location of the governing bodies and the central apparatus of the National Bank of Kiev”. End of quote. I do not consider it appropriate to exclude the words “management bodies”, otherwise any control and opposition to the affairs that have taken place in support of the current leadership of the National Bank and the current presidents of the State will disappear. In particular, I would like to welcome our President, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Today, in Kiev, he was greeted with salutes at 12 o’clock in the morning, breaking the law on silence. I would like to turn from this rostrum to Mohilov as Minister of Internal Affairs, take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u153	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 10. [[12:20:03]] For-46 Correction not supported. 11th Amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin. The 11th Amendment is extremely important and difficult. It refers to the presentation of the text of article 5. I believe that it is necessary to re-establish a valid time-checked edition, which is the article “Incomes and Expenses”. Gaining profits is not the goal of the National Bank’s activities. My colleague Arzhewitten has already explained to you what is the purpose of the National Bank. The planned revenues and expenditures of the National Bank are reflected in the cost of its income and expenditure. The cost of income and expenditure should ensure that Nitzbank can perform its functions as established by the Constitution and by this law. Nazbank sums up each quarter in case of overexpenditures, bringing up to 20 numbers a positive difference to the State budget. The positive difference between the surplus is due to the current budget on the basis of the approved income and expenditure of the National Bank by December 10, this year. The National Bank reports to Kabmin and the Supreme Council on the implementation of income and expenditure. Without a report, we have no mechanism to control this organ!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u155	11 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:21:31]] For-54 The amendment is not accepted. 12 revisions. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u156	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin, thanks to the patriots, they're getting more and more. To supplement Act 51, article 51, with such content. Income to distribution. Gaining profits is not the goal of the National Bank’s activities. The National Bank determines the profit to be distributed by reducing income to unrealized income. The National Bank directs unrealized revenues to the National Budget of Ukraine. The National Bank distributes income to the distribution after confirmation of external audit and approval by the Board of Nitzbank of the annual financial report in such order. 50 percent of the profits are directed to the general reserves and other reserves of Nazbank. The total reserves are accounted for until the total reserves are equal to 10 percent of Nazbank’s monetary liabilities. 50 percent of the income is counted in the next reporting year’s budget. Once the total reserves are formed in the size foreseen in part 5 of this article, the income to be allocated is recalculated in the State Budget. Please vote, this will support our money system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u157	I'm willing to vote on the 12th amendment. [[12:22:56]] For-52 Correction not supported. Amendment 13, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I also urge you to vote for the amendments. You can see they're absolutely smart. The opposition offers constructive suggestions that are now being put forward by Arjevetin and me in additions that are not being taken. Because they want to fake the law. Part three of article 6 suggests the following wording: “The National Bank, within its powers and provided that this does not impede the achievement of the objectives set out in part two of this article, contributes to the stability of the banking system and to the sustainability of economic growth and supports the economic policy of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” [[end of quote]] It's very important, Your Honor, that Natzbank support the government's policy, even if it's under the leadership of Azarov today. I think it's temporary, it's going to be under our direction, and in doing so, we need to remove part four of this article, where Nazbank is contributing to sustained growth and maintaining economic support, provided that this is not an obstacle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u159	The 13th Amendment votes. [[12:24:29]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Amendment 14. Maybe everyone, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I sincerely thank the Head of the Supreme Council, who understood the importance of this amendment. Paragraph 24 of the first part of Article 7 states that: “It makes short-term refinancing of commercial banks established and operating in Ukraine, in addition to foreign banks and their subsidiaries, as well as of participating banks or beneficiaries whose assets are registered in offshore zones or other states under the collateral of the banks in the construction of the dwelling of up to 5,000 80 per cent of the nominal value of the property provided to the banks concerned.” [[end of quote]] We need to unlock the development of construction that is happening today in a state that is complemented by pressure from tax authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this amendment in this way. I urge you to do so, to unlock and to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u161	The 15th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[12:25:52]] For-40 16th Amendment, Carmazin. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u162	Yuri Carmazin. I insist on all the amendments because they were done, you know, at night. Vladimir Mihajlovich, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, the leading legislator, joined us. He said that if there was a wise amendment, he would support it. I have all the corrections that are wise, Adam Ivanovich, which is why you are wise in us. So I would like to ask you to write the title of chapter III as follows: “Chapter II. The governing bodies of the National Bank do not purposely reduce the status of the National Bank Board, as it is necessary to ensure that there is control and non-admissibility of affairs similar to those that took place, thanks to the leadership of the National Bank in 2008-2010. On the contrary, the status of the National Bank Board needs to be increased. So please, change the name, change the name, whatever the name is, it'll swim. Remember what you will call the yacht, so it will swim. As long as we have "Poor" and not "Victory," right? So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u163	I'm betting on the 16th amendment, and Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, the night is designed for very different things to sleep and so forth. [[12:27:16]] For-52 The decision is not taken. For more information, see
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I sincerely thank Adam Ivanovich, and I will also support his correction. Article 8 suggests putting it in its original form. It's been tested for a while, distinguished national MPs. “The governing bodies of the National Bank are the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine and the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine, and the administration of the National Bank.” End of quote. “As far as it is necessary to ensure control and non-admission of affairs similar to those that took place, thanks to the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine in 2008-2010.” Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we leave the governing bodies that exist today. This is a very small opportunity to monitor the operation of the National Bank, its leadership on behalf of some public structure that is not defined in the same office in the Bank. Please support, this will be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u165	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 17. [[12:28:45]] For-53 Correction not supported. Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin. I sincerely thank the patriots of the nation, who have grown larger, who have joined the patriots from the Lithuanian bloc. Thank you. I propose that the first part of article 9 should read as follows: “Develops and submits the main principles of monetary policy by September 15th to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the General Programme for Economic Development and the main parameters for economic and social development of Ukraine.” For information. The publication on the official website of the National Bank and submits annually, I emphasize, by September 15th to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Information and supervises the implementation of the basic principles of monetary policy. You realize that it is our control with you that you will come after your vacation, and all of you, with your strength, will ensure the functioning of a stable monetary unit and the non-deception of our citizens. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u167	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 18. [[12:30:09]] For-56 Correction not accepted. Next amendment. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I sincerely thank the Communists in the person of Adam Ivanovich, and the “Block of Lithuania” in the person of Vladimir Mikhailovich for supporting the amendment. You realize she's wise and you'll find it hard without her, I don't know what the law will be. True, Chechetov promises to support all the changes immediately, I don't know how he'll do it. Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the second part of article 9 suggests that it reads: “It analyses the impact of Ukraine’s monetary and credit policy on Ukraine’s socio-economic development, controls its implementation and develops proposals for making appropriate changes to it”, is the end of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand the importance of analysing the impact of Ukraine's monetary policy. Maybe then you'll understand why we're now adding up to 3 billion US dollars, 3 billion dollars have been dropped, and we're not supporting the national monetary unit. Maybe that's why they're putting you all through your knees right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u169	The 19th Amendment shall be voted on. [[12:31:37]] For-53 Correction not supported. Next amendment by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. In fact, very serious things happen in our banking environment. You can see it at rates, at prices. And I propose that paragraph 3 of part one of article 9 should be made available in such an edition “Approves the Rules of Procedure of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine”. Without the regulations of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine may not work properly. So I would like to support this part of the first article 9 in the text that I have read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u171	20 amendments are being voted on. [[12:32:38]] For-41 Correction not supported. Next amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I thanked two members of the sides, but all factions fail: and the Communists, the “Lituin Block” - like all coalitions, fail all the amendments. So I thank the real patriots of the country who support this. Yes, Jaroslav, I know you'd like to vote too, but they won't let you, I know. [[I'm talking to the Dry One.]] Paragraph 4 of the first article of the 9th sentence is to read as follows: “It submits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers annually, by 1 April of the current year, information on part of the projected income to be allocated to the current year, which will be recalculated to the National Budget of Ukraine for inclusion in the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the following year.” I'm addressing everyone who cares about the fate of the National Bank, the monetary unit, of the prognosis to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u173	I'll bet on the vote of 22nd Yuri Carmazin. [[12:34:03]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 23 Amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. The Dry One wants to join us. But we don't get accepted. Yuri Carmazin. Paragraph 7 of Part One of Article 9: “Takes the decision to increase the statutory capital of the National Bank” as paragraph 6. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u175	I'll bet on the vote 23 of the amendment. [[12:34:50]] For-28 Correction not supported. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many of you want to quickly start breaking the Constitution of Ukraine or the constitutional system, but take it a little bit, you've already started breaking this Nazibank Act, which I want to show you how different it is from the civilized one, the choice that there is. Amendment 24 refers to the amendment to paragraph 7 of part one of article 9, which I propose in the following wording: “It approves the annual audit plan of the structural units of the National Bank of Ukraine. I would like to point out, honourable national deputies, to you, that the audit is to be conducted by various companies, and obviously we, the Ukrainian National Deputies, have the opportunity to get to know you with those results. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u177	The 24th Amendment votes. [[12:36:12]] For-30 No correction supported. The next amendment that we have there, 27?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Paragraph eight, part one, article nine, should read as follows: “By the first November of the reporting year, it shall, on the basis of a tender conducted in accordance with the requirements of the law and for the purchase of goods and services at the public expense of an audit firm for the conduct of an audit of the National Bank, provided that the same audit firm is not entitled to carry out audits of the annual financial report of the National Bank for more than two years in a row. Considers the audit opinion and approves the National Bank’s accounting balance by 30 April of the next reporting year. It publishes on Nazbank’s official website and on official printed media the annual balance sheet of the National Bank.” Dear National Deputies! You and I passed a corrupt law yesterday, and you adopted a more loyal law on the distribution of products. And I urge you not to corrupt the National Bank yet! So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u179	I'll bet on the 25th amendment. [[12:37:41]] For-33 Correction not supported. The next Amendment 27 or 28, which is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 27 refers to the amendment to part one, part one, article nine, and approves the decision of the Government of the National Bank, the participation of the National Bank in international financial institutions. I suggest we put it out as paragraph 10. Dear National Deputies! How important it is for us today to participate in international financial organizations, you can see that, even for this reason, yesterday, the budget of Ukraine, with 18 billion, has been moaned about the lack of funds for the army, conducted by the National Security and Defence Council. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you were there, why didn't you tell them that your 2 billion-dollar coalition in the army had just reported that your coalition had dropped out of school. So please support this amendment and do not allow any further violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u181	I'm betting on a vote of 27. [[12:39:11]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next up, 29th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u182	No, it's not. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 28. I understand that when I remind you of the budget, you've lost a little bit of the cure. The 28th Amendment, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please re-establish paragraph 11 of Part One of Article 9, by issuing it in such an editorial “to ensure the implementation of the basic principles of monetary policy, has the right to apply the procrastination veto to the decisions of the National Bank on the diversification of the assets of the National Bank and their liquidity, the limits of off-balance-sheet liabilities, the formation of reserves, the coverage of financial risks, the order of deductions of income to the State budget of Ukraine, the minimum size of the gold reserves, from other issues related to its competence” and modify further the numbering of parts of the article. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the Board of the National Bank can use such instruments, then it could stop the dissipation of the state gold stock that has now taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u183	I'll bet the vote on the 28th amendment. [[12:40:41]] For-43 The amendment is not accepted. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders I thank the patriots for voting in contrast to the coalition. Please delete section 9, paragraph 11, of the first article 9, approves the submission of the National Bank's ruling on the method of determining the remuneration of the head of the National Bank and its deputies. Since the deputy heads of Nazbank are government officials, and the head of Nazbank should also be, and all the issues of their salaries have already been resolved by the government of Ukraine. And the salary and the payment of one million 200 thousand dollars -- please think of it as a salary to the head of the institution and its deputies -- it's too much when pensioners get no more than 10,000 a year -- is defined by the State Budget Act of Ukraine. I'm not talking about low-income people themselves. Dear National Deputies! Please support the deletion of this option. I'm also going to the coalition, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u185	I'll bet the vote on 29 amendments. [[12:42:09]] For-47 No correction supported. 30 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u186	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Such amendments are decisive, allowing such colossal wages to be shown by factions, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in order to make it clear which factions for the people and who are only deceiving them. Amendment 30 refers to part two of Article 9 of the proposal to make it as follows: “The Board of the National Bank may make recommendations on the eligibility of appointment or dismissal from the positions of head of the National Bank of National Bank members or the personal evaluation of the activities of individual officials of the National Bank” – the end of the quote. Because I believe that it is unacceptable to ban this from the Council and the position of the professional body should be known by the authorities that are taking part in the appointment and appointment of the person who should be responsible for the theft of investors and other consumers of banking services that have been the result of the unprofessional management of today's National Bank, and by the people whose bank affairs have not been stopped and are still continuing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u187	I'm betting on a vote of 30. [[12:43:39]] For-47 32 revisions. Names can be recalculated.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. So, according to factions, it's a shame to call it, it turns out. Yuri Carmazin. 32nd Amendment. Thank you for the reminder. Part two of article 10, please, read: “A member of the Board of the National Bank may be only a citizen of Ukraine who has no dual citizenship and has a higher banking education and a scientific degree not below a doctor of science whose scientific work is related to banking and has at least 10 years of experience in the field of banking, a professor in banking, a national deputy, a member of the Council Committee. on the issues of banks and national activities, management positions at the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, the head of the banking institution, scientific work on banking, the irreprehensible business reputation, in particular, did not lead or join their supervisory bodies, where temporary administrations were introduced during its work, resides in Ukraine as a citizen for the last 10 years prior to the date of the appointment of the years.” Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u189	I'm betting on a vote of 32 amendments. [[12:45:08]] For-50 Correction not supported. 33 revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders 50 – “for”, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The whole 50 "for" are national MPs, after which so many millions of people, are two of your factions that have joined the coalition, have cemented it into the anti-national coalition. I propose part 3 of article 10: “Member of the Board of the National Bank cannot be a national deputy of Ukraine, a member of the government, a head of the central or local executive body, a head of political parties or a member of the governing bodies of the political party. To engage in entrepreneurial activities, or to be part of the governing body of a legal person, to work in harmony other than teaching, scientific, and other creative activities. Be part of the governing body of another bank or be its shareholder, be convicted, have dual citizenship. You realize that these amendments are related to the amendment that was made by Stanislav Arzvitin. He stressed to you that you are going to save positions for today’s people, including in this room, or are sitting in the Bank’s. I'm definitely against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u191	I bet the vote on the amendment of Yuri Carmazin 31. [[12:46:37]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Amendment 33?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 32, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u193	But we've already voted on the 32nd, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u194	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, 32nd didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u195	Yuri Anatoliyovich, you have the amendment going first to Amendment 32 and then to Amendment 31. We voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u196	I. You're taking my time, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll read it, I'll, if I repeat it, you'll stop me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u197	Yuri Anatolyevich, I say again. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you have a point going first on the 32nd and then on the 31st. First we voted 32nd, then 31st, now 33rd amendment. I'm following closely, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's really an imprint on that, you're really right, there's really a print. There's two in the 32nd, you said it right. It's really a print. But in turn, it is. Yes. Part four of article 10, I propose, as follows: “The candidate for appointment as a member of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine shall provide information confirming its compliance with the requirements set out in part two and third of this article, which shall immediately be published on the official website of the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine for information on this candidature. The same person cannot be a member of the National Bank Board for more than two periods.” Still, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the repairs are moving one by one, and you have noticed that there was something wrong with the computer. Thank you. Please support the people's deputies for this democratic absolute amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u199	I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. [[12:48:38]] For-48 No correction supported. Thirty-three amendments then, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin. The amendment refers to part five of article 10. I suggest you put it in a new lineup. “The President of Ukraine appoints seven members of the National Bank Board. The appointment of members of the Board shall be carried out by issuing an appropriate decree indicating the date of completion of the terms of office of the Board member.” End of quote. What is the purpose of this recording? We have seen that today's President of Ukraine has completely unmotivatedly dismissed the previous members of the National Council. Of course, no one ran to court. Why didn't they run to court? Because they're afraid, they're setting up a totalitarian regime and they're afraid to run to court. But in principle, the President has brutally violated the Constitution, even though today is his birthday. I think it should be good for him to be healthy, to be heard to meet the requirements of the Constitution for timely release and to avoid a situation where an illegal member of the council holds this office, but also to prevent the illegal layoffs of today’s President Janukovich. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u201	I bet on the vote of Amendment 33. [[12:50:08]] For-45 Not accepted. The next 34 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u202	Yuri Carmazin. The amendment next sounds like this. Part six of article 10, I propose a new edition. Ladies and gentlemen, this editorial concerns the Supreme Council of Ukraine, us with you and those representing the people of Ukraine, not us with you in this case. I suggest you write it down. “The Supreme Council appoints seven members of the Board of the National Bank. The appointment of a member of the Board shall be carried out by means of an appropriate decision indicating the date on which the Board member’s credentials are terminated. End of quote. In order to meet the requirements of the Constitution for timely release and to avoid a situation where a Board member is in office or a member of the Board is counted as a person who has already died. For example, there were Plujniks. Today, according to the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been annulled, as many as 14 members of the Governing Council have been elected. Moreover, it is essential that a new member be elected in legal cases. I think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u203	I'm betting on a vote of 34. [[12:51:37]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next, 35 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u204	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Part of article 10 suggests that we do so. The candidates for the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as members of the Nazbank Council are being discussed at a special open meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the invitation of representatives of other committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is broadcast on the “Council” channel and the result of which the committee makes its recommendations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. End of quote. Then all professional market participants will see the quality of the candidates. And there will be no culture and corruption during the discussion. Then there will be no such thing as that committee that amended today, even though only the law was passed yesterday. They didn't even get the transcripts, they didn't get the findings of the law, they didn't get the legal escort. But we're going to say, "goodyums" and make a gift to Yanukovich before his birthday, a new law. He's not in a hurry to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u205	I'm betting on the 35th amendment. [[12:53:05]] For-48 For 35. The amendment is not accepted. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u206	There's a red ballot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u207	Thirty-six amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u208	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, I remember. I'd like to ask you to put part of article 10 in a different edition. It has to be as democratic as it is transparent. “The appointment of members of the Board of the National Bank shall take place no later than three months before the end of the term of office of the previously appointed members of the Board of the National Bank. The term of office of members of the Board of the National Bank shall be seven years, except for the head of the National Bank, which shall form part of the Board of the National Bank for the term of office.” End of quote. You realize how important it is that we, no later than three months before the end of the term, assign a person to prepare morally, intellectually and in any other way to enter the leadership of the country's highest banking institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u209	I'll bet you a vote on the 36th amendment. [[12:54:32]] For-49 Correction not supported. 37 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you must speak in full 49. These are two of your factions that go into the coalition. That's how many people don't vote, unfortunately. I would like to present part nine of article 10 in such an editorial. “The approval of a member of the Board of the National Bank shall be terminated in connection with the termination of his term of office, for the last day of the term for which he has been appointed, or in the case of the filing of a written declaration of his/her own authority, the termination of his/her citizenship, the receipt of dual citizenship or the departure from Ukraine to a permanent residence, the taking of legal force by arraigning him/her incriminating him/her, the death of a certificate of death or on the basis of a decision of the court to declare the deceased or to declare him/her undeclared, or the failure of a member of the Board of the Nitzbank to comply with the requirements of the law, or the loss of his/her integrity of his/her business reputation, the absence of valid reasons at two meetings of the Board of the Nazbank. [[We need to discipline the members of Nazbank]] Not fulfilling the responsibilities of a member of Nazbank, including for more than four months in a row. Identifying the facts of untrustworthy information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u211	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 37. [[12:56:01]] For-49 Correction not supported. Next amendment to 39th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u212	Forty-nine, thank you all. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I also suggest that part of article 10 be made available in another edition. “In cases defined in part nine of this article, the appointment of a new member of the National Bank shall be permitted until the end of one year from the date of the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine.” In fact, think of the circumstances that prevent a person from being a member of the Nazbank Board, or of the fact that information is not reliable when appointing a member of the Nazbank Board. Obviously, in this case, we have to appoint a member of the Board of the National Bank in time. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u213	I'm betting on a vote of 39. [[12:57:13]] For-56 No correction supported. Amendment 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. The whole 56, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is as much as your two factions. There'll be more. I propose that part of article 10 be presented in such an editorial. “The approval of the assigned composition of the National Bank shall be suspended on a time-by-time basis if the implementation of the basic principles of monetary policy has not, according to the year, ensured the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit. In this case, the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine are obliged not later than two months by adopting appropriate acts to release their representatives and appoint a new composition for the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine.” Ladies and gentlemen, in no country of the world has there ever been such a thing as a 70 percent loss of money, and we've kept all our heroes in our posts, we've paid 10 times more than the President's and we've kept our seats. So I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u215	I'm betting on the vote for the 40th amendment. [[12:58:42]] For-51 Correction not supported. 41 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin. Patriots are getting more and more. I would like to encourage you to make changes to article 10, part 12 of it, and to present it as follows: “ For the reasons set out in parts 10 and 11 of this article: The President of Ukraine dismisses the members of the Nazbank Council appointed by him by means of a corresponding decree, which should state the reasons for his release. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is releasing the members of the Nazbank Council, which it has appointed to take the appropriate decision for the submission of the Ukrainian Professional Committee for which the grounds for exemption are to be stated. So, if you get fired, you stop being a citizen, you start being a dual citizen, you enter a bank, or you buy as in our Ukrainian reality a small bank, and you get something for old age, in which case the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine have to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u217	I'll bet you 41 amendments. [[13:00:10]] For-63 Correction not supported. 42 repairs, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u218	Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, congratulations, total 63! 63 people supported us now, that's a lot more than two factions in the coalition. I propose a part of article 10, which reads: “The approval of the head of the National Bank, the head of the National Bank as a member of the Board of the National Bank, is terminated on a permanent basis solely in connection with the termination of its mandate or the dismissal of him from office for other reasons defined by this law. This formulation is better, and other heads of the National Bank will not hesitate to take office. Ladies and gentlemen, we did a brilliant thing with you yesterday. Two and a half years later, we restored the Constitution by releasing Mr. Demchenko’s head of the Master’s Court. I think we should set such an example right here and put it in order for no one to take an illegal position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u219	The 42nd Amendment votes. [[13:01:38]] For-50 The amendment is not accepted. 43rd Amendment. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, Amendment 43 refers to the amendment to part 14 of article 10, which I propose to make in such an edition “Members of the National Bank’s Board perform their functions on the basis of public principles”. Delete the phrase “Members of the Board of the National Bank are paid for the costs incurred in exercising their powers under the Rules of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine”, and end of the quote. Because otherwise imprecise spending can make it possible to pay large sums that will not be consistent with real costs. Good scientists, good politicians should consider it an honor to be members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine and to ensure the stability of the monetary unit. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u221	The 43rd Amendment votes. [[13:03:01]] For-47 The amendment is not accepted. 44 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u222	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. 44 the amendment refers to the changes to article 10, part 15, which I see is necessary for it to be written in the following wording: “The internal question of the organization of the activities of the National Bank Board, the order of business and other matters shall be determined by the regulations of the National Bank Board, which shall be approved at its meeting in most of its composition.” Dear National Deputies! Obviously, the National Bank Board should be governed by something, so I've predicted that most of its contributions should be voted on, it's a perfectly normal, civilized norm. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u223	The 44th Amendment votes. [[13:04:14]] For-45 Correction not supported. Carmazine's Microphone 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u224	Yuri Carmazin. I propose the last part of article 10 “The distribution of organizational and material security to the Board of the National Bank, carried out by the National Bank at the expense of its cost” to be presented as part of article 10. With regard to another amendment 46, part of the first article of article 12, I propose that it read: “The head of the Board of the National Bank shall be elected by the Board of the National Bank for a term of three years and shall not be reelected. The mandate of the Board of the National Bank shall be terminated the following day after the three - year term of office. His early release from office shall be permitted solely on the grounds defined in part nine of this article.” Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I saved time by combining the two amendments 45 and 46. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u225	I'm betting on a vote of 45. [[13:05:33]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 46 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u226	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We voted 46th and 45th. The amendment refers to article 12 of Part Two of the proposal in the following wording: “The head of the National Bank cannot be elected as head of the National Bank’s Board and should be released, except in the cases set out in this article, because the implementation of the basic principles of monetary policy did not, in conclusion, ensure the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit” – the end of the quote. Consider, please, that this formulation is certainly better, and the rule of law does not allow the head of the National Bank to be held accountable for sharp growth and inflation otherwise. We national deputies with you voted three times on the mistrust of the head of the National Bank. And what did it do? Nothing. Because we don't have that kind of authority. There are no such constitutional powers, so I propose that this position be recorded in part two of article 12. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u227	It's the 47th amendment. [[13:07:00]] For-43 Correction not supported. 48 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u228	Amendment 48 refers to the deletion and completion of the law after Article 13 by the title of the chapter of this content: “Chapter three. Organizational foundations and structure of the National Bank” The 49th amendment refers to the restoration of the word “delay veto” in article 13, which reads as follows: “Where the Board of the National Bank applies the procrastination veto to the decision of the government, such a decision takes effect only when it is confirmed by two thirds of the total number of members of the National Bank’s government no later than five days after the date of veto application. If the decision is not confirmed at the same time by two thirds of the total number of members of the Nitzbank administration, it is considered not to have taken effect if the decision of the Nitzbank government has taken effect until the veto is applied to it, its action shall be suspended for a period of review of the rule of the National Bank of imposed veto," – the end of the quote. Otherwise, the head of the bank will be able to systematically damage the interests of the state, as it has been in the past and past years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u229	The amendment of Yuri Carmazin is being voted on. [[13:08:28]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 50 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u230	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is bad that, as in the Presidium, we are not given tea. If there are many amendments to the people’s parliament, it may be necessary to do so. You see the applause of the people's deputies. I thank them for their support. Please. It's a vote, isn't it? I'll bet. This amendment refers to the restoration of paragraph 1 of the first part of article 15 as follows: “as regards the distribution of income and the order in which income is allocated to the State budget of Ukraine”. Why is this necessary? That's what it takes for us to see that the income distribution is going to go to a greater extent for both the State Budget and not for the creation of pension funds, as it is now, and everything else in the National Bank. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u231	The 50th Amendment votes. [[13:09:55]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 51st and 52nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u232	Yuri Carmazin. Colleague Zebrowsky rightly pointed out that a vote should be taken in favour of this law. So I'd like to delete part one, part one, part one, and put it this way: “It develops and submits for approval to the Council of the National Bank the method of determining the remuneration of the Head of the National Bank and its deputies”, the end of the quote. Since this is a matter for those in the public service who are being decided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, you understand very well that it is a matter of government to set public employees' wages. Paragraph 9 also states: “It performs the functions provided for in Articles 3, 7, 23, 28, 64 of this Law and other functions resulting from the main purpose of the activities of the National Bank and not assigned to the powers of the Head of the National Bank and the Council of the National Bank.” Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u233	I'm betting on a vote of 51. Now another amendment and we'll make a decision. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u234	No, no, you don't. Yuri Anatolyevich, you don't have to. [[13:11:16]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 52 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u235	The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have made all the amendments to the terms prescribed by law by the Rules, and it is your business to ensure that they are put to the vote. I thank you for your tolerance and compliance with the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Paragraph 9 of Part One of article 15 suggests that it read: “It performs the functions provided for in Articles 3, 7,23, 26, 64 of this Law and other functions resulting from the main purpose of the National Bank’s activities”. [[end of quote]] I propose the deletion of the words: “they are not referred to the powers of the Head of the National Bank and the Council of the National Bank” because the law cannot lay down all the powers deriving from the main purpose of the activities of the National Bank. The main objective of the National Bank is provided for in the Constitution, which is what your colleague Arzwethin rightly pointed out, he spoke of the functions of the National Bank, which should be recorded in accordance with the Constitution and other laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u236	I'm betting on a vote of 52. [[13:12:51]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, so all the adjustments that came to the beginning. [[B in m in s a l in]] Those who came to the beginning of the law were discussed and more. Now, please, Stanislaw Arzhevtin. Dear colleagues, one from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, if you've noticed, my amendments were not aimed at violating the independence of the National Bank, and my amendments were intended solely to protect investors and clients of the banking system. It's a shame that you didn't support it, but I've shown a sequence last year that the independence of the National Bank should be ensured. But not in the way that today, I apologize when all the Central Bank's demands are recorded in this law. And I would particularly like to ask the communists to be consistent, too, because they probably know that this law is a precondition for the International Monetary Fund to allocate funds to Ukraine. I'm in charge of allocating funds to Ukraine, but again, it's not like that. I really wanted to see what position the Communists would have today for voting on this bill. I'm asking you to put it on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u238	Yes, it is. Yes, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u239	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am still asking you to comply with the requirements, I stress the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Even if the Supreme Council decides on a shorter deadline for amendments, the term is seven days. Today, not even for a single period of time. Nevertheless, you refuse to consider the parts of the amendments made by the subject of the legislative initiative under the Rules of Procedure Act. So it seems to me that the refusal to consider the amendments made by my colleague Carmazini has been refused. If he didn't make it, it would be within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure Act. There is a violation, I would stress, of the constitutional procedure for considering the bill. Therefore, such things cannot be done; any amendments made should be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u240	Thank you. I remind you once again, before the issue was discussed, my colleagues turned to me, handed me the amendments, and I was looking at all these amendments right now. So you don't have to blame him where there's no reason. Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u241	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich and honourable colleagues, I propose that in paragraph 17, paragraph 17, of the first section of the bill, which amends article 20 of the National Bank Act, the words “six” should be replaced by “four”. Well, there's got to be common sense, we're shortening executives, local self-governance, we're leading to a cut in expenses, and here the head of the National Bank has four deputies, and here we're increasing six substitutes. Well, logic has to be, if it's not done where it's done, we don't have the right to support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. In order to preserve our consensus, I will put to the vote, taking into account the proposal by the National MP, Sergija Gordijenko, to adopt the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine for adoption as a whole in the second reading as a law. [[Registration number 6659]] Please vote. [[13:17:12]] For 256 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party – 171, "Block of Timoshenko" – 22, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u243	There's no procedure. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Common Services Market of Ukraine, a report by the Vice-President of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Valérie Baranov. [[Registration number 6419]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is given to Act 6419, which we have considered for a few days in our first reading. We have dealt promptly with all the comments that have been made, more than 20, and they are all taken into account in the last version that you have in your hands. In addition, there are three amendments that I would like to request your consent, to make a vote, all the other amendments in writing, all taken into account and accepted. Vladimir Mihajlovich, there are three amendments that I would like to make with my voice, if possible. Amendment No. 1 other than those taken into account. We have the words “water supply” in the text everywhere, but the words “cold and hot” appear everywhere in the text. Because there are differences to address this problem, such clarification must be made. Next. Paragraph 3, article 1, after the words “self-sufficient activity”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u245	Let me answer that. Ladies and gentlemen, today at 9 a.m., a meeting of the Committee on Housing and Utilities was held under the leadership of Rybak Vladimir Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u247	This morning, the Committee on Housing and Utilities has considered this law definitively and has instructed me to report on the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u248	And the correction in what way? He was the only one who was admitted yesterday. You have not given MPs the opportunity to make corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u249	All the amendments that have been formally made to us are all taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u250	We have 14 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u251	Corrections all accounted for?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u252	There are no amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u253	Here's the amendment document, Yuri Anatolyevich, that you are. What is involved in the amendments that have not been taken into account? What is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u254	Position of the Committee: To adopt a bill taking into account all the amendments taken into account and 23 of them considered this morning at a meeting of the Committee. In addition, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have begun to speak on the three amendments proposed by the vote. All those who wanted to make their amendments had made their proposals this morning. I don't understand. I couldn't have done it until we announced our decision. Okay, second. The second amendment, which shall be adopted by vote, after the words “self-sustaining activity”, shall be supplemented by the words “and development”. It is meant that we will then be able to place with you an innovative component for the development of housing and utilities. And a third sentence. Paragraph 12 of the first article should begin with the words “encourages investment programmes” and continue with the text. That is again to attract investment and housing and utilities. Here are all the amendments that have been tabled to date and taken into account by the Committee. The Committee requests and recommends the adoption of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u255	I'm voting on the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down! Please take a minute from the factions. Please. Let's finish the question, then. A keynote microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u256	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Well, I realize that someone is in a hurry to do something about a certain Jubilee, but that doesn’t mean that the legislative process has to be ruined. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a warning on specific amendments. For example, the 5th amendment that removes from the law the task of a national commission to ensure transparency and openness in the markets of natural monopolies. Why should this be recorded? I demand that this amendment be confirmed by a vote at least. Then it will be known who wants natural monopolies to act neither transparently nor openly and that people do not know what they are paying for. And there are several other amendments. I think we should give them a chance to put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment number five is supported. Oh, in a minute, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u258	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I signed up first. The Lord knows better who to speak to first. And so does the computer. So, honourable coalitions, you have created your own Supreme Council. The decisions that have been taken in this way, in violation of the Rules, should not be recognized by the people of Ukraine. You're squandering power, you're creating a state crime. I emphasize the responsibility of each of you personally and of the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, personally. Because that's the only law that was passed yesterday. Today, the groupie's meeting, and they've written it down for themselves. You can only write down a ball, not laws. And don't make any sense! The concepts, and the muddy ones, are more orderly and more specific! Therefore, Your Honor, I demand that the Rules be enforced, that this law and others be postponed if there is no political consensus in the Hall. Do not commit violent violations. You're going to make a decision not to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u259	Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u260	I, colleagues, have been working with you for more than a year. There are limits. This is already called political homage. Not to comply with the law called the Rules and to be bullied here. I propose to pass on the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u261	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u262	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, open the 88th article of the Constitution and remind yourself of the way in which the Head of the Supreme Council exercises authority and then article 116 of the Rules. And there you'll see that seven days, at least, is given by a reduced procedure to make proposals for second reading, and actually 14. And yesterday passed a single law being considered today. Now, on the order of the day, another law that was passed in the first reading only yesterday. On what basis and for what do you do all these things? On what basis do you brutally break the law? And how long will this take place? That's what I'm talking about. Let's take the day's order of the Supreme Council for the entire session, by one vote, we're going to confirm everything, and we're going to split up from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear, distinguished colleagues! [[Now, one minute.]] Dear colleagues, let's do this. The Supreme Council of Ukrainead hoc has decided on this bill as well as on the previous one. That's the first one. And the second. I personally say to my esteemed colleague, when two laws were required yesterday, which were not considered by the committee at all, and for this reason blocked the rostrum, you somehow stuck your tongue away and kept quiet, did not demonstrate your principle. So let's always demonstrate the same principle, and I need to find understanding in the Supreme Council, balance the interests of each other. So sit down and work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, I would like to say to Yuri Anatolevich that the Supreme Council, like the President, has elected the people. The people elected both the Supreme Council and the President, and the Cabinet of Ministers worked for the people. And democratic principles suggest that most decisions are taken in the process of discussion. That's why it's all about democracy. But I have another offer. When the passions got worse, I think the only reason the passions got worse was because we didn't use a 30-minute break. We just beat the crap out of it. From 12 to 12.30 was a 30-minute break. That's why we didn't use the break to extinguish my passions. To vote on this bill now, and to take a break until four o'clock. To calm the people down, and to get to work at four o'clock. Please put to the vote so that we can use the recess that now and now, after the vote, went on a four-hour recess, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I see the completion, but we've made a deal with you. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. There was a warning about the 5th article. I'll put her to the vote. We're going to figure out about the adoption of this law, and then we're going to have a discussion about whether or not to take a break. Amendment number 5. She was counted by the committee. A national MP requires that this amendment be made for confirmation. I'll put her to the vote. Amendment 5, Amendment 5 shall be put to the vote on the approval of this amendment. Please vote. [[13:28:04]] Z-87 Dear colleagues! I'm talking to you again. One more minute, I'm calling you again. Take down the vote. Just so you know. Amendment number 5. The committee counted it. Because a national MP is in favour of this amendment. Please, I'm telling you again. Amendment number 5. The committee counted it. But since the MP requires the vote to confirm this amendment, I am putting it to the vote. Please take the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u266	Deputies! Amendment number 5. It implies that the following paragraph should be deleted from the MP. The commission had such an item. Ensuring transparency and openness in the markets of natural monopolies and adjacent ones, in adjacent markets in the field of heating and centralized water supply and water supply. But the National Commission should not or would not pursue the transparency of the work of natural monopolies. It will develop tariffs and monitor the correctness of their calculation. The Committee therefore supported Maybeard in deleting the amendment. And I'm asking you to delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u267	Please. Oh, well, the repairs count. The MP insists on voting on the approval of this amendment. The Supreme Council must confirm or not confirm. So you've already justified it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u268	Well, please, the microphone. Yuri Klukkowski. No problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u269	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say that I have a warning about four more amendments. But I want to pay attention here, to the deep degree of misunderstanding of the tasks of the public authorities. In a democratic state, all authorities ensure the transparency and openness of their activities. And if someone wants to shut down their activities, they're shutting people down so they can't finally find and get what they're paying for. So this is the position except for this ruling coalition. It's an anti-national position. I call upon all those who are not indifferent to the fate of the people today who are paying immodest municipal services not to remove the requirement of transparency in the work of this authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention to vote on Amendment 5 for confirmation. [[13:31:04]] For 211 The correction's off. Please, Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u271	Thank you. 27 The amendment provides for the establishment of grounds for bringing administrative responsibility for what is not satisfied with the National Commission for the Regulations of the Municipal Service Market. In what way is she supposed to take on administrative responsibility? These fines are not so small — up to 200 untaxed minimum — that's thousands of dollars. To do so in one day without agreement with the relevant committee responsible for the Code of Administrative Offences is simply confident and unprofessional. I propose that this amendment be removed. And if there is a need to establish such administrative responsibility, it should be implemented by a separate bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u272	I put to the vote this amendment for its confirmation, or 27 amendments. [[13:32:28]] For 215 The correction is not supported, i. e. it is being downloaded. Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u273	Thank you. 31 amendment output the activity of natural monopolies in the heat and water markets under the competence of the Antimonopoly Committee. Yet the mandate of the Antimonopoly Committee is the mandate of the constitutional body. Therefore, 31 amendments do not have the right to nonexistence, since it narrows down the competence of the body whose authority is established by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u274	I'll bet you a vote to confirm Amendment 31. [[13:33:21]] For 210 The correction is not supported, i. e. deleted. All of it. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the proposal: the adoption of the second reading and generally as the bill of the National Commission Act. Dear colleagues, well, pay attention! I'm voting on the proposal: acceptance in second reading and in general as the bill of the National Commission for the Regulation of the Common Services Market in Ukraine. [[Registration number 6419]] Please vote. [[13:34:12]] For 298 The law is passed. Now. Stanislav Arjevitin, one minute. The right to a replica, called Stanislaw Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u275	Honorable national deputies, honourable chairman, we are filing a motion from a group of deputies to cancel the decision regarding the National Bank in connection with a gross violation. By the way, I'd like to remind our deputies that I'm the committee's first deputy in finance and banking. There was no committee meeting on this subject yesterday or today. As my first deputy, I'm in charge of this direction, I don't know about this committee meeting, about its convening, and about the results that have been reported today. Among other things, I'm going to address your President, the President of Ukraine, in view of the gross violation by this law of investor rights. And I'd like to hear the President's reaction again. And once again, I wanted to highlight the Communists who keep saying that they don't support the International Monetary Fund, and by voting today, they've contributed exactly the opposite in their policies. That's your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-09-m0.u276	Dear colleagues! Before consulting on your proposal for a break, there are two committees to include such draft laws in the agenda. To amend the Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. This is also the appeal of the Committees and the Supreme Council here addressed Serbin, Michitarian and Polachenko, and the head of the Committee, Vladimir Rybak. About getting into the daytime. I'm voting on this proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 6687. It's about housing. To support housing under financial crisis. [[13:36:26]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The committee's appeal to the Conciliation Council and the committee's chairman, Gregory Kaletnik, questioned the inclusion in the agenda of Act 6566, amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the creation of favourable conditions for the agricultural sector by petroleum products]] On the inclusion in the agenda of the vote of the draft Act. [[Registration number 6566]] [[13:37:11]] For 318 Decision taken. In view of the fact that we have been working tirelessly, honourable colleagues are now invited to announce a recess, and at 16 hours we will continue our work in plenary mode. Is there no objection? The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
