ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:01:09]] 283 National Deputies Cards have been registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We continue our consideration of the questions in the section “second reading”. Bill 4694 is under consideration. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance". [[on the insurance internship]] Please, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, National Deputy Suškević, Head of the Committee on Pensioners and Disabled Persons, Faction “BUT – Fatherland”. Colleagues, Bill 4694 on the implementation of the Supreme Council Decision of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, submits a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance, and recommends that it be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that this bill is designed to address the issue of the recalculation of pensions for working pensioners. The problem is social and very acute, and it's very topical. So far, nearly 3 million pensioners are waiting for this issue to be resolved. I would like to point out that our committee has very many references to this matter from retired workers. During the drafting of the bill, 19 proposals were received from the national deputies, of whom 6 were taken into account and 12 were rejected. Among the rejected five suggestions made by the people’s deputy Sushkewicz, or mine, I agree with them because they have a problem with article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. We will not get used to this rule. I'm getting used to it, and I recommend you get used to it. And there are three proposals from the People's Deputy Carmazin concerning the provision of relevant information to pensioners through the Internet. From this point of view, I want to say that the committee supports the idea expressed by Yuri Anatolyevich. But, according to the committee, this issue needs further work, including compliance with the requirements of current legislation. There are many issues to be settled with other laws of Ukraine. And that's not the norm of this bill. Hence, they have been rejected accordingly. In addition, there are 3 suggestions from a respected colleague of Stoyan, a national MP, to exclude in the first reading the standards adopted in the first reading for the protection of persons who are on maternity leave. I mean, in the first reading, you and I accepted that the internship is about the time our women are on maternity leave. It's a normal social standard. That's why the committee supported her. In addition, the People's Deputy Stoyan suggested that at a time when people with disabilities and children with disabilities are brought up to the age of three, we adopt a standard in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u4	Thank you. Which involves excluding the earnings of this from retirement. So it's normal, it works for our pensioners, too. Honorary colleagues, a comparative table of the draft law, is being prepared by the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority with observations. And one point is absolutely supported. I want to read it. Note. If the pension is reduced as a result of the recalculation of the pension, the pension will be paid at a previously established level. It is suggested that this standard be upheld as a observation by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. Please accept the bill in second reading and in general I am the law. Thank you, I hope to support more than 3 million working pensioners with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u5	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. I'm going after the repairs. 2 repairs, Stoyan. Don't insist. 4th, the same. The 6th Stoyana. Where's Carmazin's repairs? Ah, yes, 10th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your attention. You know that's still going to be my fix. So my amendment relates to making changes to the first part of the fourth part of article 42, where I propose that it be edited as follows: “In the event that the insured person has continued to work after the pension has been granted, the pension shall continue to be recalculated at least 24 months after the pension has been recalculated irrespective of breaks in work.” So the point is that those people who have retired, if they continue to work, have a higher salary than the one they went out with, they would have the right now to count their pension. It's perfectly normal. Information on the size of the pension and its constituents: the length of the internship, the salary in the case of the recalculation of the pension, taking into account the salary and salary, or only taking into account the internship, shall be made available to retirees immediately after they have applied to the administrations of the Pension Fund, either directly or by way of a written appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u7	Thank you. The 10 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:07:38]] For the 17th. Not supported. 17th Amendment of Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u8	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I sincerely thank Jaroslav Sukhoma, who supported me, and other colleagues who supported me, because they understand that a pension law cannot be balanced, as it has already done under the previous law. Amendment 17 refers to the addition of chapter II of the Final Provisions to a new part of three of the following content: “The Pension Fund of Ukraine, within a month from the date of entry into force of this Act, approve the provision to provide citizens of Ukraine with the possibility of free Internet access for receiving the necessary information from the administrations of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, to modify further numbering of parts.” It's about the people's honourable MPs that people are making lines today to get some information. It's totally insane. And they complain and say: “How so? We have worked, and now only to find out?” Now the question is that what we cannot get must stand a turn. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u9	The 17th amendment of colleague Karmazin is a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:09:13]] For the 10th. 10 votes. Not supported. 18 Amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u10	The amendment refers to the fact that I propose a part of chapter III of the Final Order: “The Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine, within two months of the date of entry into force of this Act, to approve the provision of free online access to the State authorities of Ukraine with regard to receipt, within six months from the date of entry into force of the law, to approve the provision of free electronic digital signature to citizens of Ukraine for use in relations with the Government of Ukraine through the Internet”. By the way, it's already in all the civilized countries of the world. And thirdly, to bring your legal acts into line with the law. I don't understand why this amendment is rejected, and I would like to hear, Sir Adam Ivanovich, the opinion of the committee manager, first. And to you, the honourable Adam Ivanovich, here we have a letter of the law, I have provided information from modern dictionaries that there is no soaring.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u11	I'll put 18 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:10:46]] For the 17th. Not supported. All the amendments have been made, and I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee on acceptance as a basis. Sorry, on the second reading and in general, Bill No. 4694 on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the insurance internship]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:11:22]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the status of those who suffered political repression as a child]] [[resecond reading]] [[Registration number 5040]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations, Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This bill has a somewhat long beard, and last time it was sent to read it again. We took note of our transcript and we were given such a recommendation to take fully into account all the suggestions made by the General Legal Office. As the head of the subcommittee, I took this responsibility and took literally everything that was proposed by the Legal Department, made it as an amendment, and they were all accepted. If you're wondering, I can say that these are the amendments that relate to what were previously issued and dealt with under the current law, these are the commissions that are relevant to the rehabilitation issues of the relevant councils, the local self-government bodies, and we've taken that into account, that is, we've returned, we've done it as requested by the General Legal Authority. We also threw out part 11 of the 6th article because there was a decision of the Constitution. She was recognized by the Constitutional Court as one who did not comply with the Constitution. I point out that the only article I proposed to take fully into account, as I suggested, was the legal administration, but our committee counted only partially the moment of disability. So the law that applies to the rehabilitated, the one who was previously adopted, distributed benefits to the people who became disabled while they were sitting, being condemned, sitting in camps. And it can only be distributed to children if they get disabled there too. But our experts thought that this position might be dead, because it's too hard to prove where you got that disability, or when you were with your parents in the camps, or even after that. But we think that if we think of colleagues. Well, not to support this proposal by the committee, so we agree completely with the word, as recommended by the legal department, it gave this form, to put it in our text of our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u13	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. They are all almost accounted for, including one of the amendments made by Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. But the fifth is not counted. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u14	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. The people's honourable deputies, of course, are already very different. Thank you, colleague Gnatkiewicz. But at the same time, there is an amendment that is not included, which I think should be taken into account. I'll get her to know you. Adopted in the first reading of the appendix to article six with a new part six, make the following suggestion: A person who is recognized as a victim of political repression as a result of injury, injury, disability, or illness in the article’s five primal contexts. The period became invalid, also entitled to. It still lists what is provided, and the receipt of the benefits, and the reduction of living space payments, and the indemnity of medical care and other things. As a result, honourable national deputies, I would like to support you. And I don't understand the logic behind this amendment being rejected. I just didn't understand why they rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u15	It's really your proposal, at first glance, that's good, but it's too detailed, let's say, disability, injury, disability, or disease that's been predicted. an article of this law period. Actually, I think you have the right to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u16	That's what I'm doing. There is the fifth amendment of colleague Carmazin to the vote. [[16:16:26]] For-19 No correction supported. The rest are taken into account, and no one insists on confirming them. That is why I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee as a whole as a bill of Bill No. 5040 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. [[on the status of those who suffered political repression as a child]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:17:08]] For 20 The bill is not supported, it is rejected. We are considering Bill 5318, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on citizenship and second reading. Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, this is a bill introduced by the previous President, Victor Yushchenk. This bill is designed to regulate certain provisions of Ukrainian legislation. [[on the prevention of double citizenship of Ukrainian citizens]] According to article 4 of the Ukrainian Constitution, there is only one nationality, and Ukraine’s legislation does not recognize dual citizenship. At the same time, a large number of Ukrainian citizens have Ukrainian citizenship at the same time as Ukrainian citizenship. This has a negative impact on the functioning of the Ukrainian authorities and poses a threat to their national security. This bill was adopted at the first reading on February 9, this year. We considered it for the purpose of preparing for second reading on our committee and accepted it, took into account a large number of amendments, and really a large number of amendments were rejected and rejected. These are basically amendments that went beyond the text of this law, both by Yuri Karmazin and by Yavorowski. But in general, we have come to the conclusion that it can be recommended that the Supreme Council accept it in a second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, I have to say right now, to be honest with Adam Ivanovich, what's more, he has before him the texts of the expert conclusions of the General Legal Authority and the Scientific and Scientific Administration. And I'd like to say that I'm in quite this sad humor about this first law, and I'm pretty good at predicting the consequences of voting under the second law. Even though the law is needed in front of any president, it is absolutely necessary. However, I can express such a point of view that one of the boards says to be sent for second reading, and the other office says that it should be given, you can recommend a second reading. Since we've changed power, I'm going to make, for example, any decision, maybe the new president's administration will have other views on this position. But this is how you decide how you decide to proceed with the amendments now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u18	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. We're going after the repairs. 2nd. The circle doesn't insist. Three. Carmazine. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u19	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, an extremely needed bill and a speech in it will be about some basic things. This, in particular, I propose to supplement article 1 in paragraph 11, which reads: “Prevention of the occurrence of dual citizenship by recognizing that they illegally have dual citizenship of Ukrainian citizens who have acquired citizenship or citizenship of another State or state, but have not given in accordance with the established law the procedure for refusing citizenship or citizenship of another State or State. Foreigners who have acquired Ukrainian citizenship but in accordance with the law have not renounced citizenship, nationality of another State or state.” Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u20	3 amendment to vote [[16:21:15]] For-13. Not supported. Yavorowski. Four. Don't insist. Logwinko. Eight. Don't insist. 31st. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u21	That's right, Adam Ivanovich, thank you. 31 The amendment refers to the change made in the first reading of this law in the Law on the State Service of Ukraine. So I'm going to add them, and I'm going to complete these changes, and I'm going to put it this way: “The right to public service is enjoyed by Ukrainian citizens regardless of their origin, social, property, race and nationality, sex, political views, religious beliefs, places of residence that do not have dual citizenship,” I would stress that those interested in Israel, as well as “have received appropriate education and vocational training and have undergone the established competitive selection procedure or other procedures envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Otherwise, there will be no rule on the possibility of exemption from the public service of persons who have acquired dual citizenship when they are in public service, since article 12 provides for restrictions on the acceptance of public service, paragraph 1 of article 30, Part 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u22	We're voting for the 31st amendment. [[16:23:13]] For the 18th. Not supported. The 32nd Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u23	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I propose amendments 32 to the law when amending the Cabinet of Ministers Act of Ukraine to complete part of the first article of this law and to make this provision: “Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may be Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote, higher education, speak the national language. They cannot be appointed to the office of members of the government of persons who had a criminal record, who have been dismissed from their former place of employment for acts that discredit the rank of rank, rank and rank, internal affairs and military units, or who, in accordance with the requirements of the law in force, have been denied admission to the State's secret, at the same time as the citizenship of Ukraine, are in the nationality of another State, or who have been granted permission by another State to reside permanently in its territory or have obtained documents to leave for permanent residence outside Ukraine.” I want to make it impossible for the minister to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u24	We're voting for the 32th amendment. [[16:24:46]] For-13. Not supported. Thirty-three, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u25	In 33 amendments, honourable national MPs, I propose that the amendments made to the first reading of the Ukrainian Security Service Act should be added to article 19 after part two of the new content: “ Ukrainian citizens who had a case were not accepted by the Ukrainian Security Service authorities, were released from their former place of employment for acts that discredited the title of the rank of the military and the internal affairs and military departments, or who were denied admission to the State secret in accordance with the conditions of effective legislation.” The other one. At the same time with Ukrainian citizenship, they are in the citizenship of another state, or they have been granted permission by another state to reside permanently in its territory, or to make their way to a permanent place of residence outside Ukraine. You see, honourable national deputies, this is the Ukrainian Security Service. The fact that she's sometimes confused with the security services of Firtash and so on, I'd like us to keep it that way. This is the Ukrainian Security Service, and this is why there should be special requirements as before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u26	33 The amendment shall be voted on. [[16:26:15]] For-24 34 revisions. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u27	Yuri Carmazin. 34. The amendment relates to the fact that I propose article 1 of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Act after part three of the new content: “The Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service does not accept Ukrainian citizens who.” have been released from their former place of employment for acts that discredit the rank of the rank of the military and internal affairs and military authorities or that have been denied admission to state secrecy.” Second: “at the same time with Ukrainian citizenship they are in the citizenship of another state or have been granted permission by another State to reside permanently in its territory or to arrange documents to leave for permanent residence outside Ukraine.” As a result, honourable national deputies, I believe that Ukraine’s External Intelligence Service should have no less stringent requirements than the Security Service or the Government, or the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or the State Service at all. I think it's very important and I ask you to support me, please, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u28	Thank you. 34 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[16:27:47]] For-21 Actually, dear colleagues, I don't want to criticize the past, but there's probably no point in talking about what the Constitution requires. Well, why are we repeating the rules that one or the other can't take office if he's a citizen of another state? We don't even have dual citizenship, and there's another job here, and someone's made it up, and I don't know what to call it. 37 revisions. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u29	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment refers to the changes made in the first reading of the Law of the Supreme Council of Justice. The point is that in the Law on the Higher Council of Justice I propose a part of the first article 7 to present in such an editorial and to make identical with other serious bodies that cannot be members of the Supreme Council of Justice of the Ukrainian citizen who: declared ineffective or limitedly viable by the court; had a conviction; were released from their former place of employment for acts that discredit the rank of a regular and primary composition of internal affairs or military units; or who were denied admission to a state secret; also who, at the same time with Ukrainian citizenship, are in the citizenship of another State or were granted permission by another State to reside permanently in its territory or to establish documents for permanent residence outside Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this amendment in view of the fact that such standards exist in all countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u30	We're voting for the 37th amendment. [[16:29:44]] For-21 Dear colleagues, I am addressing Yuri Anatoliovich, your amendments are identical, only they apply to various positions. If you see that your approach is not supported, perhaps there is no point in delaying time, will you speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u31	By the way, Adam Ivanovich, just a committee, you know, Yuri Anatolyovich's repairs are always wise and very patriotic. You can see that we turned them down and turned them down, but in two positions this is the tax service and the police, we've taken them into account and incorporated into the text of the law. Well, MPs are a special caste.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u32	Yuri Vasilovich, it's all right. Each of the amendments made by Yuri Anatoliovich, they are reasonable and legitimate. But I have a question, why are we adopting a law that doesn't say anything? We're not allowed to have dual citizenship. We also want to adopt a law that states that a person who has dual citizenship has no right to take office. Under the Constitution, he has no right to have dual citizenship. Yuri Anatolyevich, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Since you have addressed me, I want to explain. That dual citizenship and residence permits are not double citizenship. And that's not supposed to happen. And now we have problems in five areas of Ukraine and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where people hold serious public office, having both types of residence, and have dual citizenship, revered Adam Ivanovich. That's why I would ask you to put to the vote the proposals I'm going to make. And, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, remember that we are the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament and that we have sworn allegiance to Ukraine, do you understand? Not for the loyalty of MOSSAD, nor for other intelligence, but for Ukraine to work. So let us consider all the adjustments in a practical way. I will not record my amendments, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Because they're diverse, not just the ones you just said. Let me report the amendment. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u34	Number 45. 45, come on or what? No, you have 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u35	Wait. We haven't talked about the National Bank yet. This is the 38th Amendment if you want, Adam Ivanovich, honorable, if you don't like the Higher Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u36	No, 38 counts, sorry. 39 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u37	39th, reverend Adam Ivanovich. 39 amendments apply to the Antimonopoly Committee. And you understand that there can be no documents for permanent residence. It's not counted. I don't understand that, on the Antimonopoly Committee, is it, the Antimonopoly Committee, not Ukraine? Or what? If we anticipate the possibility of someone getting permission from another state for permanent residence? It's a serious body that has the right to investigate, I emphasize, an investigation, in any country of the world, it's an extremely serious body. As a result, I ask you to put this part of article 11, which reads: “The citizen of Ukraine, who is at the same time a citizen of another state or has obtained permission or has formed documents for another.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u38	I vote 39. [[16:33:30.]] For-19 42 revisions. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u39	Yuri Carmazin. I thank everyone who supported me. Honorable National Deputies, the Court of Auditors Act changed its first reading. I propose a part of the second article 10, which reads as follows: “The head of the Court of Auditors may be a citizen who is not a citizen, a subject” and what I have justified before. But two: “He has reached the age of 30, is in the service of the State, has a higher economic or legal education, has an apprenticeship in the field of government, State control, economics, finance, professional rights for at least 5 years over the past 10 years, has confirmed his professional knowledge during the discussion of his candidacy for a special procedure established by the relevant committee of the Supreme Council, has no jurisdiction or has not been released from prior work in accordance with the requirements of law”. My dear friends, I think the Institute of Accounting is extremely important, and we have to take this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u40	We're voting for 42 amendments. [[16:34:54]] For-26 Not supported. 43th Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u41	I thank all those who have supported the 42 amendments. 43 The amendment refers to the changes made to part six of Article 10, which are proposed in respect of the first deputy and deputy head, the chief controllers and the Secretary of the Court of Auditors, and as order is to be appointed by the Supreme Council for the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors by secret ballot for a term of 7 years in the order established for the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors and shall meet the requirements provided for the head and candidate for his office.” The point is that we will soon have to vote for the Head of the Supreme Council, for the deputies and for the chief supervisors, the Secretary of the Court of Auditors. We need to be prepared for that. And since we're making changes to the House of Accounts Act, let's make them comprehensive, which is why I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u42	We're voting for 43 amendments. [[16:36:15]] For-22. Support is declining. 49 and 50 repairs to Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u43	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are already uniting all the adjustments. Well, you know, you're getting a lot of forgiveness, because you're fourth time in this position, we really respect you for that. That is why I would ask you to support such an amendment. Part of the fourth article of the Final Orders states: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within three months of the date on which it is effective to bring its legal acts into line with this law, ensure the adoption of the acts necessary for the implementation of the law, ensure that ministries, other central authorities of their acts are carried out in accordance with it, establish criteria for: identifying persons whose admission to the citizenship of Ukraine is of national interest to Ukraine;” and not all persons without citizenship who are citizens of Ukraine, who are citizens of another country as a result of the adoption of such acts; and to ensure that they are not acquired by a child who is a citizen of Ukraine, who is a citizen of another country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u44	Yes, 49 votes for. [[16:37:46]] For the 18th. 50 Amendments, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u45	Yuri Carmazin. The content of this amendment goes to the point that, given that projects 3102 and 2572 also related to amendments to the Civil Society Act, I proposed that these projects be considered simultaneously with this project and that they should adopt the proposed amendments to one law. And, honourable national MPs, we've made many different amendments to various laws, but we're not thinking at all about complexity, systematization and codification of Ukrainian legislation lately. That's why some laws contradict others, and that's the law that we passed yesterday, and that's what the President has already adopted yesterday, which sets out what the Head of the Government is appointed one-person president, heads of district administrations, these laws are just like those that basically violate the Constitution, say that the local self-government in Kiev has already been terminated. So I urge you to take laws into account and to adopt them in a comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u46	The 50th amendment shall be voted on. [[16:39:14]] For the 15th. Karmazin's repairs are over. Let us put to the vote a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on citizenship. [[Registration number 5318]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:39:44]] For-24 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions. Fatherland – 1 and “Our Ukraine” – 23. A draft Law is being considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the others, of course, if there's only 24. Didn't you go to school? [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Decision on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity is under consideration. [[Registration number 3224]] [[read-out]] The deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailna Ljapina, reports from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that our committee prepared and approved a comparative table for this law in July. But today we have received, please note, a very important letter from the Enterprise. Since in July we adopted all the amendments to the Law of the Free System, and this law has already become effective. And to implement this law, 25.08, the government has adopted a decree that approves a list of certain actions regarding the pursuit of economic activity, or types of economic activity that cannot be carried out on the basis of a declaration and, in fact, require permission. And that, in fact, is the established list of 91 types of documents of a permissive nature that cover 144 types of work. If we now adopt the law in the way that our committee has proposed it, but before that, we will have two mutually exclusive documents in our legislative field: a list set by the Cabinet, and a list that we will now establish by law. So the entrepreneurship is rightly addressed to you, colleagues, or to redraft this law on the basis of new circumstances, or, well, not to adopt it as it is right now. So I'm asking, maybe despite the fact that the committee's decision is to approve the board as a whole, but since these circumstances have changed, it's probably necessary in this case to do it professionally and perhaps for a second reading to transpose the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u48	I mean, you agree, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u49	Well, listen, listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u50	From the point of view of law enforcement, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u51	Well, in this case, it's a holding business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u52	That's the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u53	The right thing to say is that you can't create a conflict of laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u54	Okay. There's an offer, there's an offer: send the bill for re-reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u56	Yes, on the second, we vote. [[16:43:01]] For 177 Relax. That's it. There are no changes to Karmazin, and you relax. So, who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[16:43:27]] For 263 We're back, 263. I'm voting on a motion to re-read Bill 3224. [[16:43:50]] For 269 Decision supported. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on factoring, second reading, 2638 is under consideration. First Deputy Chairman of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u57	Dear National Deputies! Our committee suggests, recommends that you adopt a second reading and generally this simple bill, which improves the regulation of financial institutions that work with factoring services. Science-expert. The legal authorities have made their proposals, these proposals have come from Carmazin, so we suggest you save time and accept it as a whole with amendments, technical amendments to Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, it's incredible, but the fact is, there are three amendments to Carmazin, all of them are Carmagina. Two of them are counted, one of which is completely disregarded by law, since it goes beyond 116 articles of the Rules. Therefore, we have a clear conscience to vote in favour of adopting the whole Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on factoring. [[Registration number 2638]] We'll support Carmazin. [[16:45:38]] For 269 The law is passed. Act No. 3041 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of bills is under consideration. [[second reading]] Praslov Igor Mikolaiovich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u59	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, has drafted a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of bills with a view to enacting existing legislation in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Bills in Ukraine, which has in turn been drafted in accordance with international standards in this area. [[Registration number 3041]] The bill provides for a supplement under article 12 of the Law on the Treatment of Bills in Ukraine to article 13 on economic societies and article 86 of the Ukrainian Code on the Prohibition of the Use of Bills as a Contribution to the Charter Fund of Economic Societies. The purpose and the establishment of responsibility for the violation of the conditions for the issuance of promissory notes by entities. The bill imposes penalties in the form of a fine. The bill also amends article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Enforcement and the definition of the contested bill with an executive document. Please note that, during the preparation of the draft law for consideration on second reading, the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council has introduced technical and legal remedies, namely, article 163.12 of the Code of Administrative Offences excludes the words that an administrative liability is borne by an individual in accordance with the general provisions of the Code. Second, Article 255 of the Code on Administrative Offences corrects references to bodies authorized to draw up protocols on administrative offences. In addition, the Legal Office provided comments on the bill, which the Committee supported and requested to be taken into account when voting for the bill as a whole. In particular, the first amendment to article 5 of the Law on the Treatment of Bills proposes to settle the issue of the signing of a bill by an authorized person of a natural person, an entrepreneur similar to that of an authorized person of a natural person. The second is to provide in article 13.1 that offences committed by legal persons in respect of a violation of the procedure for the issuance of a bill are dealt with by the relevant authorities, the Securities Commission, Nitzbank, the Tax Administration, the Head of the Authority in accordance with the laws on those bodies. Regarding the revision of the Budget Code. The bill amends articles 50 and 78 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. But since you and I have adopted the Budget Code a little earlier, it is proposed that the text of the amendment to the Budget Code be deleted. And the last. The Committee on Finance and Banking considered at its meeting on 16 June.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u60	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u61	and suggests that it be supported on second reading and in general, taking into account the comments of the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u62	I mean, once again, dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you that the committee has completely agreed with all the observations made by the Legal Department, they will be taken into account. Dear colleagues, if we are now, if we are now adopting a law in general with observations from the Legal Authority, they will be taken into account when preparing the law for signature. They're going to be accounted for, and here I don't see the problem and we can do it separately, let's not do that. We'll do it another way. Who, in order to take into account the proposals of the Legal Authority in Bill No. 3041, please vote. At the suggestion of the Legal Authority, they are considered. [[16:50:16]] For 240 I repeat: we take these proposals into account. Now in reference to Yuri Anatoliovich’s remarks. Please, microphone, express your anger at my address and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of Ukraine grants the power to be a subject of the right of legislative initiative exclusively to the President, to the government as a whole and to the national deputies of Ukraine, to be neither a committee nor a legal authority, in all my respects, are not subject to the formulation of amendments – that is the first. The other one. We are doing the same for the second time today, allowing the law to be ruled after it is passed. You can't do that. We need to take these amendments into account, and through the legislators, we need to bring these amendments here. Besides everything else, I have amendments that I am convinced will improve this law, and I would like, Sir Adam Ivanovich, not to correct the Constitution, when we adopt the Constitution, we have clearly defined who is the subject of the right to amend the laws and initiate changes to the laws. Thus, counting a correction or a coma can even lead to self - injury.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u64	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for your observation is absolutely fair. I would like to point out to the stenographer that we have taken into account the legal management proposals made by the National MP Prasoluov, who is the subject of the legislative initiative. And come on, he said it from the rostrum, so don't catch me, don't catch me. [[th m in s a l i]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u65	[[From the Hall]] . discussed on the committee and written.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u66	Considered on the committee. And the first deputy cook hasn't spoken in a while. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u67	Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich, from your own reaction, you realize that what you're saying just doesn't make any sense. You understand that very well. I realize that a certain circumstance has arisen. When the committees are not yet accustomed to working for this requirement, as contained in article 116 of the Rules. That's not why I protested so much. But for the future, Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to listen, Adam Ivanovich, to the future I would ask that this practice not be repeated. The MPs are voting for the cat in the bag because we don't see the final edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u68	Yes, the 11th Amendment of Carmazin is being followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u69	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, colleagues, for standing on the watch of the Constitution. I propose in the 11th Amendment, which amends little, little, but to the Ukrainian Code of Master, part three: “It is forbidden to use budget, funds, loans and mortgages for the formation of a statutory fund of society, as well as the types of civil rights that are defined by law. The financial situation of the founders of legal persons as to their ability to make appropriate contributions to the statutory fund of the company in cases provided for by law should be checked by the proper auditor in the established order, and the property status of the founders of the public must be confirmed by the declaration of their income and property certified by the relevant tax authority.” Dear National Deputies! As we enter the field of the Code of Lords, we need to write these standards clearly. That is why I propose to vote in favour of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u70	Puts to the vote the 11th Amendment of Carmazin. [[16:54:25]] For-22. Not supported by the 11th. Consider Karmazin’s 22th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u71	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 14, Adam Ivanovich, provides for amendments to the Law on Household Societies, which was completed in the first reading part of article 13 of the Law. I propose this part of the third article 13 on economic societies, which reads: “It is forbidden to use budget funds, funds, loans and mortgages as well as other types of civil rights objects defined by law to form statutory capital.” Because of this, there will be no abuse and I believe that such an amendment should be and no one will abuse their rights, we will not violate mass criminal cases and give work to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Because she's having a really hard time right now, because we need to reappointed the Attorney General, a lot of those who want to, and the job is one. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u72	You're not applying for this position, are you? The 14th amendment shall be voted on. [[16:55:53]] For 20 Are we going to 22nd, Yuri Anatolyovich? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u73	Amendment 16, reverend Adam Ivanovich, refers to the changes made to the Law on Implementing Implementation in the First Reading, because I will remind you that many laws have been amended. I propose to delete paragraph 4 prime. Part one of article 3 of the Law on the Enforcement of the Law also reads: “Protested by the notary of the promissory note, except for promissory promissory notes, since according to instructions on the order of the notary action, the promissory protest of the promissory note is carried out by notarius in the execution of the executive inscription on the protested promissory promissory note. The executive inscription of the notary according to paragraph 4 of Part One of this article is an implementing document that is subject to the execution of the State’s executive service under this law.” Please support this amendment and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u74	The 16th Amendment of Carmazin votes. [[16:57:10]] For-23 Finally, there's 22 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u75	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, we complement the article. The first reading adds more loyally to article 131, which speaks of a violation of the conditions for the issuance of promissory notes. I propose to delete the first reading of the draft bill on the circulation of bills in Ukraine, part three of article 13 prim. In the event that the deletion proposal, adopted in the first reading, is not supported, the completion of the project is part of the third article 13, set out in the following wording: “Article 131 becomes effective after the amendment to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of Amendments concerning the establishment of the order of imposition of such a fine”. But, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, after you've voted to supplement the legal administration that you need, I don't know now, maybe this amendment is completely taken into account. Because that was the point made by the Chief Legal Authority. So if you reject my amendment, you're going to wet what you've already done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u76	Don't get wet. There are 22 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:58:43]] For -14 All corrections have been made. I am voting on the adoption of Act No. 3041 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on circulation of bills. Please vote. Taking into account the amendments of Prasololov. [[16:59:14]] For the 250. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Decision on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school institutions. Registration number 6689. Secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Samuel. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Vote. [[16:59:53]] For 178. Copy that. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u77	Thank you. The decree we adopted in 2006 established the annual Prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pedagogical Workers from 1 January 2007. In line with the position developed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education on the basis of proposals made by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district councils, Kiev, Sevastopol City Councils, the selection of candidates for the annual prize was held. Taking into account the number of pedagogical workers in preschool, general, and non-school and vocational schools in the region, the committee recommended that public executives and local self - government be awarded an annual bonus in this respect: 18 prizes in the field of secondary education, 5 in preschool, 4 in preschool, and 3 in secondary school. On the basis of the 30 prizes, the system of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine consists of 27 entities, Odessa, Kharkiv regions and Kiev, two candidates for the award of the prize are offered. I remind you that in 2007, when we gave the first prize, Dnipropetrovska, Donetsk, Lvivsk region had that right. The Committee on Science and Education has a full package of documents from local self-government and local executive authorities on the award of the Supreme Council Prizes to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschoolers and extra-school institutions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask that we all vote by constitutional majority today for this decree, which will allow you to personally conduct the award ceremony for the Ukrainian Education Workers' Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and, of course, our decision today will be very appropriate in the pre-festive days so that we can prepare with you for the award of our pedagogical workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Catherine Semenovna said that I have an offer, let's support our determination. I'm betting on a ruling on number 6689 proposing that the prizes be awarded to the Chief of the Supreme Council. Please vote, or the one to whom the Head will be entrusted. [[17:02:39]] For the 250. Thank you. Decision accepted. So we welcome those who receive these bonuses. Dear colleagues, as always the village is dying. So I'd like to ask, here's a request that we now consider Bills 1300 on sugar and 2427 on free land privatization. Who's in favour of speeding up these issues, please support. And culture will be, and culture will be, everything will be today. Vote. We passed the law on culture. What else must we accept? The inheritance will have to be legitimized. [[17:03:23]] For 238. Copy that. Yes, please, Kostenko, Bill No. 1300 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State regulations for the production and implementation of sugar (for the formation of favourable investment, credit, tax and customs policies) (new edition). You don't? None. Yes, the committee. Who's from the committee? Please, Marina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by Ukrainian National Deputy Kostenkom. [[on the formation of favourable investment, credit, tax and customs policies]] [[registration number 1300]] [[of March 31, 2008]] The need for a bill has created a complex situation that has arisen in the internal market for sugar and in the entire beet-sugar complex of Ukraine. The draft law is designed to provide food security for the State, to create market-friendly investment sugar, credit, tax, customs policy, to ensure the functioning of the sugar market on the basis of a combination of free competition and state regulation with a view to balancing the interests of the operators and the State, which will help to preserve the sugar industry in Ukraine and to establish a transparent mechanism for producing and implementing sugar. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, proposes that the first reading of the bill should be sent for re-reading. In general, taking into account the important points made to the bill, it must be acknowledged that only a new edition has the right to consider the matter. Therefore, the Committee, taking into account the acute situation in the sugar sector, proposes, in accordance with the Rules, that the prescribed bill of Ukraine should be returned to the author of the legislative initiative for further development or, if necessary, refer to the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations to prepare for a re-first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the Scientific and Expert Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u80	Thank you, Marina Volodymyrno. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] They broke up because the Supreme Council had made a decision. The Supreme Council can. has the right to make such a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't take too long, we need to clear the field for activity. I think it's all clear, dear colleagues, I'm putting in a proposal and a committee, and I'm putting in the head of the comeback science department. First, though, the question of acceptance is raised as a basis. 1300, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:06:56]] For the Not supported, the law is rejected, including the author's work. The draft Law on Introduction is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I'm telling you, Carmazin made me a note. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the right of citizens to privatize land free of charge. [[Registration number 2427]] The author of the initiative is Smituj Grigory Evdzimovich. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:07:43]] For 222 Despite Karmazin’s “against ” decision. Please, Grigory Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, for your consideration, the proposed bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of citizens' rights to free privatisation of the 2427 land area, which I have also filed on 22.04. The year is 08 C.E. You understand how much this bill was on the committee, or how much time it didn't submit to the Supreme Council. The project aims to strengthen the legal guarantee without. ensuring the realization by citizens of the right to land, including the right to free privatization of land areas and aimed at creating a legal mechanism to ensure the realization of all citizens, regardless of their place of residence, the right to free privatization in accordance with established land standards for farming, or private agriculture, gardening, construction, housing, farm buildings and buildings, dowry areas, individual buildings, and individual garages. Why did I bring this law to the fore? You all know that much of our citizens, especially those who live in cities, towns and cities, cannot realize their constitutional right to privatize land for free. This is particularly true of the national housing programme. And you know that part of Ukrainian citizens can't realize their rights in the construction plan, because their local authorities, on various grounds, are refusing their constitutional right to land for the above-mentioned needs. So by introducing this bill, I think a lot of people who didn't take advantage of this constitutional right are entitled to this. And the responsibility for this right, the realization of these rights is vested in the local authorities. Therefore, amending the Code of Land and the Code of Administration will enable citizens to realize these rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u83	It will provide a significant opportunity to provide accommodations, including accommodations, and other accommodations for citizens. I ask the people's deputies, despite the fact that the bill has been in the Supreme Council for a very long time, to vote in favour of the first reading. And those remarks that are from the legal department, and those comments that will come from you as national MPs, we can correct the committee and submit a bill that is very important to me in the near future. Please support me in the first reading in order to allow me to work on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u84	Thank you. Who's from the committee? Please, Marina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 2427, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Smitush, who was considered at the committee meeting. [[on the provision of citizens' rights to free privatization of land]] We note that it is appropriate to suggest that citizens should be given a recommendation on land that can be acquired by ownership, sub-paragraph 2, paragraph 1, of the first chapter. However, appropriate government authorities and local authorities have the responsibility to provide such information. The proposed new edition of part 11 of article 118 of the Ukraine’s Earth Code is, in our view, a failure. The current edition of article 118 resolves a conflict between citizens and the executive branch or local government if the land has not been transferred to the property or left uncontested. If such a conflict does not arise, a citizen may make an appropriate application to any other local public administration or local self-government authority in whose territory he wishes to obtain land because the applicable land legislation does not prohibit it. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that a draft be sent for further work. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council administer the proposed draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u86	Thank you. Are there speakers? Besides Carmazin, who else wants it? Sulkowski. Then please, Karmazin, then Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support Gregory Smith's efforts to correct these things in law, and I would like to respond to the observation that is in response to the General Scientific and Experimental Authority, which reminds us that people have the right, in accordance with part six of article 118 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, to those who are interested in obtaining free land ownership or in farming, to make appropriate claims. They turn back, but who will give them this land, the honorable? As a result, he predicted that the Ministry and the central authority of the executive branch had somehow intervened in this process and had seen what was happening. And I'm drawing your attention to the fact that over a month ago, I went to the President of Ukraine for the reason that Desert Water is our lungs with you, Kiev. Eight hectares are now cut off, the top of the law enforcement system is behind it, and I've asked for the President's intervention. Do you think I see a reaction? No, there's no line from the top of the law enforcement office, no president. Therefore, the Smith Bill raises questions, of course, and in article 53, with the badge 3 he proposed, amend the Code of Administrative Violations. But in the first reading, it can be accepted and corrected. We can't let the semi-factory out of here, but make it look like everything's okay, everything's settled, we can't send these bills either. Because there are a lot of disturbances in this plan, people complain, no one sees these complaints, courts decide what conflicts are, and the land is actually being allocated. Including today, you refused to release a judge in the Zakarpatsky area who, on the basis of the raid scheme, offered and took land in Sevastopol and decided that it was necessary, and you refused to release the judge today. All of it. I say, shame on the team.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u88	The Sulkovian Paul, long since not heard, has been two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm not against this bill, and I'm probably going to vote, regardless of what the Cabinet of Ministers is up against this project, and most of the time in the room, I'm going to see that this project might not get votes. I just want to support my fellow Smither in that he's stalling the privatization of the land, I agree, but it doesn't take long because people can't pay. But that's not why. Privatization is delayed because of bureaucracy, that's the point! Corruption, these structures, all of which were bound to be carried out within a certain period of time by more than one presidential decree to speed up and complete, but they are sabotaging in this structure. That's what the root of evil is, not in free privatization. So I'm against being a free privatisation, because that's not the point and it won't speed up even if we adopt a privatisation law today free. I think that Julia Timoshenko is the day before the presidential election, and she's going through this whole mess, and she says that it's free to privatize in two months before the election. How did this work? Nothing. Many structures became corrupt, pressured, disgraced, and so forth, nothing worked out. So I think and I call today into my faction that really, as Carmazin said, it doesn't have to be eliminated, it needs to be accepted in the first reading, but it needs to be processed into a second reading. It has to be imposed on the appropriate structure to set certain lines for the President’s decree and take control, and then it will be the case, for the benefit of the people and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u90	Yes, the discussion is over, fair remarks. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 2427 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of citizens' rights to free privatization of land. Please vote. [[17:17:49]] For the 17th. Not supported. But you know, there's re-reading, and there's a re-reading author. Once again, the committee will work, the author will be removed, and the committee will decide what to send the author to work on. So it's probably going to be, well, let's probably vote. How's the author? The author's word, please. Garbage microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u91	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I am grateful that the Supreme Council can return my bill. And please return my bill for further processing. Why? Because I told you that the bill was introduced in 2008, the relevance of this problem exists. And one more thing I'd like to tell my colleague Sulkowski. This is about the law that is already in the Code of Earth today, but this right cannot be realized because it is not a perfect norm. And I bring, on the one hand, a perfect rule of this law, and on the other hand, a responsibility, why I am responsible for the Administrative Code to officials, and I no longer touch anything. This does not refer to the national problem, the earth’s market, the sale of land, and so forth, it refers to a separate article of the Codex earth. So I'd like to ask the National Deputies to send them to work, given that in the meantime, some changes will be made, given the time, I'll make it in exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's support the proposal, because if we decide to send the author to work, then the bill will have the right to live. He'll be working on it, and we'll be able to look at it in this session. I'm voting on the proposal to put Bill 2724 to work. This is according to the Rules, Yuri Anatoliyovich. Vote. No, no, and not only does it give you the right to work again, it's because we don't reject the bill. [[17:20:03]] For 241 Decision taken. Let us go to the chapter “to review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. There is a question, Bill No. 3190 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on protection of cultural heritage with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 03.06. 2010 Kulinjak Mikhailo Andriyovich, Minister of Culture and Tourism, reports. Get ready, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! On 11 May 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Protection of Cultural Heritage”. On June 6, the law returned with proposals by the President of Ukraine to supplement the law on the protection of archaeological heritage by article 9, paragraph 1, paragraph 7, paragraph 12. This provision introduces a compulsory payment of scientific and archaeological expertise for any land collection, particularly for natural persons, for farming and for personal agriculture and for gardening, construction and maintenance of housing and for individual buildings. The President notes that in order to protect objects of archaeology, a valid Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the law that has come into force, there is a need to obtain the consent of cultural heritage authorities to obtain land ownership. Thus, in the event that the proposed changes in the law are effective, citizens will be obliged to obtain almost two similar conclusions regarding the existence or absence of archaeological heritage objects in such lands from the Cultural Heritage Authority and from the relevant expert on the results of scientific archaeological expertise. This is certainly not justified, leading to an artificial complication of citizens’ rights to land. On the basis of the above, the head of State proposes to refrain from introducing an additional condition for land ownership by natural persons of scientific archaeological expertise. In view of this, the President proposes in paragraph 5 of paragraph 7 of paragraph 12 of the law, which has been signed, that the words “physical and” be deleted. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u94	Thank you. It's all clear, isn't it? Have a seat, please. From the committee Musik Volodymyr Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u95	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Minister made the President's proposals very clear. Indeed, leaving the words “physical and” would not contribute to the realization by citizens of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine of ownership of land. Adam Ivanovich, the committee proposes in paragraph 5 of paragraph 7 of the Act that the words “physical and” be deleted and adopted in a new edition. That is, to fully support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u96	Thank you. Understand? Who doesn't understand? It is not clear to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u97	There is a question for Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u98	Okay, ask me a question, maybe I'll answer it for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, George Carmazin. I would like to reconcile what the minister has told us, what the head of the committee now speaks of, the honourable Vladimir Moses, with those remarks that gave rise to the honorable Chief Legal Office. Let me remind you that they're on a lot of sheets and they're talking about substantial variances. I would like to hear the opinion of each of them, the minister and the heads of the committee on these three positions. Because in my opinion, they haven't been agreed upon in their reports yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u100	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for speaking correctly. But according to the law’s point of view, the law applied when we adopted it. And now they're reiterating into a law that's already been returned to us by the President. But the president didn't pay attention. There's a stick, I'm sorry, two ends. He paid particular attention to his proposal. On this proposal, the legal authorities responded that she was hearing the offer. And what they're saying is, I'm sorry, the train's already gone. I'll put it to a vote. I'm betting, I'm voting on a proposal to support the President's proposals, i.e. the adoption of a bill under number 3190 amending some Ukrainian legislation on protection of cultural heritage, taking into account the proposal of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Even Yuri Anatolyovich votes. Vote, vote. [[17:26:18]] For 248 In Carmazin's voice, the law was passed. A draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 21 June of this year, is under consideration. [[new editor]] Registration number 0937. Reported by the Deputy Head of the State Committee on Science, Innovation and Information, Svizenko Viktor Alexiyovich. The committee is Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Priorities of Science and Technology on 1 June 2010. The new law is designed to introduce a new mechanism for a well-founded choice of priorities and concentration of scientific potential, financial and material resources for their implementation. The drafting of the new law is based on forecast and analytical research in the implementation of the relevant national target programmes for 2004-2006 and 2008-2012. In his proposals, the President of Ukraine stressed that the identification of new priorities for science and technology is important to ensure that resources are concentrated in the main areas of scientific and technological development, but because of the inadequacy of the individual provisions of the new legislation of the Constitution of Ukraine did not sign it. Yes, one of the key aspects for re-examination was the definition of at least 30 per cent of the total expenditure on science, which did not correspond to article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, by which the definition of any expenditure by the State to the general public, the size and purpose of the expenditure is defined by the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The other key aspect is not the inadequacy of the new regulation of the Constitution of Ukraine's law that parts of article 5 of the new law are required by the Cabinet of Ministers to establish a consultative body in the field of scientific and scientific and technical activities, i.e. the Coordination Council, to ensure coordination of work with the implementation of the priorities of science and technology development. According to the Head of State, the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on which the consultative body and what should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is an intervention by Parliament in the operational activities of the government. The President of Ukraine also noted that the functions of coordination were assigned to the designated advisory body, while the direction and coordination of the work of ministries, other executive bodies under paragraph 9 prim. Article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine is the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On the basis of the statement, the President of Ukraine is invited to exclude from the law a provision that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, part six, part seven and eighth of article 5 of the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for the Development of Science and Technology. Ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind the very relevance of the bill, allow me to make a proposal for the adoption today of the proposals of the President of Ukraine and recommend the introduction of a revised law for reconsideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Convinced that its adoption will contribute to the concentration of material, financial resources on the most important areas of science development, the state will strengthen the innovative economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u102	Yuri Anatolyovich, but it was so well said, you don't understand. Well, ask me a question. Carmazin asks questions. Be in the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u103	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I have certainly heard and read the comments of the President of Ukraine. I am concerned that this law is becoming completely empty without being thrown out of it, and I quote: “At least 30 per cent of the total expenditure on science and technology is directed towards the implementation of the priorities of the country’s state budget.” That is, priority development is either unfunded or unfunded. What's more, it's already in the law. It's simple and everything. So I'm showing the shortsightedness of this point. I would like to point out that those officials in the President's Office who took this responsibility to exclude this paragraph are crossing the future of Ukraine. And there's talk in China, in other countries about the fact that we're going to support science, priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u104	Well, that's more of a wish. Have a seat, please. It's from the Samuels Committee. Please sit down, Yuri Anatolyevich. You can comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u105	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, considered the President's remarks and unanimously voted on the representatives of all the political factions represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that the Law of Ukraine, as you said, could be repeated. This cannot be the case, but it can be the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Priorities of Science and Technology, with the President's observation, because you have made a mistake. The law is, indeed, extremely important, aimed at enhancing the use of scientific and technological potential on the path of innovative state development, and it foresees the creation of an active forecasting system, but not only in percentages, we are talking about percentages, the formation and implementation of state-owned science and technology programs that will enable more innovative economic activity to contribute to the creation of new scientific production. As far as the president of Ukraine is concerned. We have indeed surpassed, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting this law as a whole, we have surpassed. violated the Constitution of Ukraine, article 5, which clearly indicated how much percentage should go in a specific direction. This is defined specifically by the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that these issues are decided exclusively by the budget. As for the criticism that it's going to be a desert bell, that we're not looking forward to it, no, I'm saying that despite having adopted the State budget for the current year on May 1, we've already doubled funding for both education and science. So a positive trend is and it doesn't have to be so negative. As for the creation of advisory, advisory, various auxiliary bodies at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, you and I have actually adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, where we are. where it is clearly and clearly stated that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for more efficient work can create advisory bodies, advisory bodies and so forth. I'd just like to be the cook. preparing the President's remarks, she would not have written that “the Supreme Council intervenes in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, should not be confused by such words, because it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that forms the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it can fix the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it can give a critical assessment and it should be treated with respect especially by those who prepare the President's remarks on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And in general, the President's remarks are correct, we have violated the Constitution of Ukraine, so we suggest that this Ukrainian Law come with comments from the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u106	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee as a whole, registration number 0937, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for the Development of Science and Technology, taking into account all the President's comments, the President's proposals. Please vote. Vote friendlyly, Yuri Anatoliyovich also [[17:35:40]] For 221 Let's see the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] For the evil of Yuri Anatolyovich to return to the vote, please vote. We're voting friendlyly. This is science and science. Look who's not trying to support you. [[17:36:11]] For 233 We're back, we're back, we're back, we're back, I'm voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Law, registration number 0937, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. [[17:36:39]] For 237 Thank you. Faction: Region Party – 159, "BUT – Fatherland" or "Paternity" or "BUT" – 13, "Our Ukraine – Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19, non-factional – 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u107	There's no such thing. Oh, yes, you have a replica. Please, one minute, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u108	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very bad that Ukraine does not plan for the development of science and technology and that we do not plan to have at least 30 percent of the total costs of science spent there. And it's very bad that the committee immediately said that, yes, we recognize that this is a violation of the Constitution. There is no violation of the Constitution. The Supreme Council expresses politics and conducts politics. And I don't know if it's going to be better for scientists today or not than that the priorities aren't being developed. I don't know whether it's better or not that micro-wave technologies are needed today in agriculture in Canada, in the United States, in Israel, in Australia -- they're needed around, they're not needed in Ukraine today, because they don't want to understand Azarov or Yanukovich, what this is, is an addition of 25 percent to crops, practically, without cost. And I want you to understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u109	Thank you. A draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Cabinet of Ministers is under consideration, registration number 6502. [[on the establishment of prizes and scholarships for outstanding achievements in specific areas of social activity]] First Deputy Justice Minister Imelyanov Inna Ivanovna reports. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please be supportive. Vote. Go, Inna Ivanovna, to the rostrum. [[17:38:54]] For 208 Copy that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of this bill was to establish legislative mandates for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to establish bonuses and scholarships for outstanding achievements in specific areas of social activity. Article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the Cabinet of Ministers may exercise other powers if they are defined by law. In this context, there was a need to do so, in the end, in view of the inadequacy of the existing practice of designing and adopting, at the proposals of the relevant central authorities concerned, the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of government decisions on the establishment of bonuses and scholarships for significant achievements in specific areas of social activity, and in this regard the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result of the adoption of this bill, it retains appropriate powers. Taking into account when we considered the bill on the committee and the government proposal was also supported in the absence of comments, if it is accepted by the national deputies, to accept it not only on the first reading but also on the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. According to the committee, Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u112	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvin, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting held on 7 July 2010, reviewed the draft Law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6502]] The bill proposes legislative strengthening the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to establish bonuses and scholarships for special achievements in various spheres of social life, as well as their size and order. Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics and Ensuring the Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 27.05. In 2010, it points to a lack of comments on the drafting of the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 18.06. In 2010, he noted that the first reading of the bill made it appropriate to adopt the bill as a basis. Having heard the information of the committee on questions of executive authorities, having examined the position of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 114 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending article 20 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6502]] As a result of the first reading, accept as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u113	Thank you. We're giving bonuses, aren't we? Besides Carmazin, who else wants to share in the discussion? None. Then the word of Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u114	Yuri Carmazin. Respectful national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, imagine, in the country of crisis, 60 percent of budget filling, prices rising, the anticonstitutional coup d’état in Kiev is taking place, and Merzalov’s palms will soon be planted instead of a monument to local self - government. All of it! And Kiev, because they don't want to hear voices, won't vote. And at that time, we're passing from the entire government, the intellectual government, the "professor" two sentences, a bill of two sentences that says that there's a competition between the authorities. Today, the Supreme Council has determined who to give the prize. Well, the Supreme Council is a political body and a representative body, a legislative body. Prior to the President’s decree, 300 people were received for what was laid down and for which it was not laid down, for the indemnity of the indemnity was paid. And now the government also wants to reward the unaffiliated, too. I'm asking you, in the state, are all the questions already resolved that we're taking up time for this today? I don't mind, God! Start the prizes, but don't use it within what you're doing as a political component. Because you're going to Crimea and within 10 meters the inscription: "Janukovich will save Crimea," "Janukovich's hope of Crimea," and in Crimea it's getting worse, and there they're gathering the IMF and saying, “After these political parties, the colonels, the lieutenant colonels, they get up, they sweat, they wipe, and they report that there are so many literate companies, and so on and so forth. Your Honor, you don't know that in government?Oh, my God! What are you doing?Oh, my God! And you need to give rewards! It is not possible for such complex bills to be passed on to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u115	Thank you. But first, Yuri Anatoliyovich, first, I haven't seen you in Crimea this year, I don't know how you know about posters and slogans, you've been somewhere else. The other one. As a matter of fact, respectable colleagues, rewards. Well, why are we fogging? No one rewards the day of independence or any other festival. These are presented over the course of a year, sometimes two or three years, and by one date or other, a decree is issued because, for example, what went on from the Supreme Council for three years was in the Supreme Council and so on. So please let's be particularly experienced lawyers like Yuri Anatolyevich, be accurate and fair, defend justice with Motherland. Dear colleagues, I asked who would like to speak? Besides Carmazin, nobody wanted to. So please sit down, I'll put you to the vote. It is put to the vote on adoption as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the establishment of prizes and scholarships for outstanding achievements in specific areas of social activity]] [[Registration number 6507]] Please vote. He's probably got it all. [[17:46:45.]] For 236 Thank you. The law is passed. It is being considered that I continue for 15 minutes, the draft Law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is being considered. [[on the regulation of the procedures for the recruitment of military personnel bound to educational assemblies]] [[Registration number 6478]] There is a proposal to vote on the reduced procedure. Meanwhile, I invite Andresyuk Boris Pavlovich, Deputy Defence Minister, to the rostrum. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[17:47:28]] For 212 Copy that. Please, Boris Pavlovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to Article 20 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been prepared with the aim of eliminating contradictions in legislation regarding the recruitment of military personnel to educational assemblies, which have arisen as a result of the disagreement between the Ukrainian Law on Cabinet of Ministers and “On military duty, military service”. Thus, the Supreme Council delegated the mandate in article 20 of the Cabinet of Ministers, confirming the number of military officers bound to the educational congregations, and in article 29 of the Law on Military Duty, military service. The Cabinet of Ministers considered this issue, since article 29 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service of the Supreme Council amended the law and those rights delegated to the Ministry of Defence. Please remove this duplication and vote on the repeal of article 20 of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please consider the positive. If you please, you will accept it in the first reading, and I would ask you to accept it in general as a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u117	Thank you. No questions? I mean, there's no proposal to make a statement? Any suggestions? Yeah? Then, please, let's have a thought from the committee and maybe discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Lithuania, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, held on 7 July 2010, reviewed the draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6478]] [[of 03.06.2010]] The bill regulates the procedure for the recruitment of military-bound teaching congregations. Under the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it is proposed to comply with a separate provision of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 29 of the Act on Military Duty and Military Service of 21 January 2010 under registration number 1835-VI. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority considers it appropriate to adopt the bill as a basis. After discussing this issue and taking into account the opinion of the Committee on National Security and Defence, our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, a draft law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, resulting in the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 6478]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u119	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Carmazine's asking. Please, a word. He's got good points, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you, the heads of the committees, the leadership of the Supreme Council and the leadership of the Government of Ukraine, so what are you doing with the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Now you've been making changes to one piece of legislation, to the Government Act, to the Cabinet of Ministers for 20 minutes. And you do it with different documents, different explanatory notes and so on. Here's two words to clean up, there's two sentences to add. And we have a lot of these bills. We've been paying attention to not the systemicity of the approaches that there is. I don't have any comments to these deputy ministers or committee heads right now, no, they don't. It's going to be in vice-premiers, which are eight wholes. There is no country in the world, there are nine where there is one. And we don't have as much sense as we do. That's why I'm initiating, I'm addressing President Yanukovic, shorten the number of vice-premiers to three, and then they're going to know what the left hand is doing, what the right hand is doing, and what some head is doing. Because at the moment, I see it's only taking time for the Supreme Council. And that's a stateless, headless approach. Today we cannot give children textbooks because there is no paper. There's no message in the courts. They say come with your envelopes. And the courts don't work. And now the paper is being spent, everything is being written, the office is writing. A horseman with no head. Because of this, distinguished national MPs! I asked you, Adam Ivanovich, as First Deputy Head, you are in charge of the organization. Please gather the officials with Azar. If I have to, I'll give them lectures so they know. And what the prime minister of the opposition government is, they won't let me go to government meetings, so I'm going to explain every day what you're doing wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Finally, the comments are fair. I think the Cabinet of Ministers will listen to this. Well, Yuri Anatolyovich shouldn't criticize his colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister, because he's also Vice Prime Minister, only in the shadows. Maybe one day you'll come out of the shadows, that's us. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a law under registration number 6478, amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Please be supportive. [[17:54:08]] For 230 Thank you, the decision is made. A bill on recognition is being considered, which has become invalid, the Ukrainian Industrial Finance Group Act in Ukraine, and amendments to some of the Ukrainian legislative acts. Registration number 6330. There's an offer to accept, to consider a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:54:40]] For 211 Thank you. The First Deputy Minister of Economy, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, reports. Prepare the Europeans. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u122	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, is proposed for your consideration to draft the Recognition Act in such a way that the Ukrainian Act “On Industrial Finance Groups in Ukraine” has become invalid and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. The bill is designed to eliminate excessive government regulation of the activities of legal entities. The problem is proposed to be addressed through the recognition of the Ukrainian Industrial Finance Group Act by which it became invalid, as well as the exclusion of Article 125 of the Master Code and the corresponding article of the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking. The need to draft the bill is explained as follows. Industrial and financial capital relationships, as world experience has shown, are now made up of concerts, consortia, and transnational corporations. Today, Ukrainian legislation has ensured the creation of integrated corporate structures and economic integrations of different types for the implementation of state programs for the development of priority sectors of the economy. Thus today, according to the decision of the Cabinet and the central authorities to carry out specific tasks and decisions of the government according to the register of state-owned property objects, 30 associations in the form of equity associations and 48 economic associations have been created and functioned. At the same time, the Ukrainian Industrial Finance Group Act, adopted in 1996, does not provide for an effective mechanism for the creation and functioning of such associations, which is based on, firstly, a burdensome procedure for their establishment, a mandatory condition for their participation in State development programmes, economic requirements for the implementation of end-products, a restriction on the participation of only one bank in the absence of the full debt requirement for the activities and state support of industrial and financial groups. Since the adoption of the Ukrainian Industrial Finance Group Act, only one such group was established in 2001. It was only active for three years and it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u124	Thank you. There is no financial group today, and therefore there is no need for government regulation in this area. A draft Ukrainian law is proposed to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u125	Thank you. From the committee, please, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u126	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, good afternoon, Adam Ivanovich! This bill was reviewed by the Committee on Economic Policy on 6 July this year. The Committee supported the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to recognize the loss of the Ukrainian Financial and Industrial Groups Act. It is recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis. However, I would like to draw your attention to the text of the bill itself and to the conclusions of the expert office. The expert office supports the bill. The text of the bill itself contains only one and a half pages. Very simple, very clear, and if no one has any comments, I would recommend that this bill be adopted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The bill also supports Carmazin. I'm voting on a proposal to accept as a basis. Doesn't support it, does it? Yeah, well, give Karmazin a chance to speak, and so does Sulkovsky. Carmazin's microphone or the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u128	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You and I should think about why financial and industrial groups don't work. Why didn't they work for us? Why are the financial and industrial groups of the neighbouring state working with us today and working extremely well? More than that. Ask yourself why there are 30 bean barges in Santa Claus today. And they stand because our neighbors, our Russian brothers, want it to be the only policy. They don't have crops, we have crops. On our account, given what's suppressing ours now will be a dent for Europe or for other countries. We lose the image, they charge the price. That's where the financial and industrial groups work, we don't work. I can call it a list of everyone behind this name, but the economy of Ukraine is causing serious and substantial damage every day. That's why I want to hear from the government before we eliminate the financial and industrial groups. Ladies and gentlemen, why didn't industrial and financial groups work, which is a union that is created by a government decision for a certain period of time with the aim of implementing state programmes for the development of priority sectors of production and structural reconstruction of Ukraine's economy? I'd like to hear why the report of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors said that we got $2 billion in the Russian Federation's World Bank to cover the government budget deficit and became dependent on one of the Russian Federation's financial and industrial groups. I'd like to hear why they're turning us into different groups. And that's why I think today that an institution like industry finance groups should be that amending the Banking and Banking Act was allowed to banks that they could.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u129	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u130	Thank you. You know, colleagues, it would be very bad if there were few lawyers in Parliament to discuss the adoption of relevant laws. Well, it's even worse when there's a lot of wise lawyers who've been misinterpreting it, they're going to overturn anything so that it's not in Ukraine's best interest to take the time. I listened very carefully to the first deputy, like all the national MPs present, Vladimir Vladimirovich, and it was extremely clear what this bill needs to be adopted today, it is essential for this. There are absolutely no questions for Ukraine today, so there are no questions not to vote or support. What about Adam Ivanovich, by other drafts of the law, if, for example, they're raised there, they've done a lot of work for you both, and so on, and so forth. There is some opposition to those who also need a little talk and training. And I would also ask, if I were to give the word to Carmazin, I would have to give it and the coalition would ask for the word and so on. That's right, you're just giving Carmazin, who's chasing things everywhere, and not at all. Well, I, for example, support him a lot, so let's have a look today. I gave my votes, very much, to Karmazin, Mr. Yuri. But unfortunately, I see that you can only convince me, but you don't convince the whole room. So there is a request, if we can convince them, that it will really be in favor of Ukraine and that everything will be okay. I call on Adam Ivanovich to put a question to the vote and to adopt this bill as a whole, as requested by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u131	Thank you. I hope you convinced Yuri Anatoliovich as he can convince you. As for the fact that I'm giving him my word, well, you don't have to insult the opposition. What's more, Vice Prime Minister. Come on! It's under review. A motion for the adoption of the 6030 law is put to the vote. What is in the first? on recognition of the loss of validity of Ukraine's Industrial Finance Group Act and amending certain Ukrainian legislation. We vote like the law. [[18:03:58]] For 229 The law is passed. Your group will survive a little longer if it is. The draft Law 6552 on amending certain legislative acts to increase the responsibility for intervention in rail transport is under consideration. I went on for 15 minutes, don't beat me up, I've had enough of Yuri Anatolyovich. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please vote. [[18:04:39]] For-200 Copy that. You know, there's a wise offer from Arzewittin that this law is to be considered both by a reduced procedure and without the involvement of Karmazin. But it's a violation of the Constitution, yes. Please report to the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Anatoly Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u132	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts to increase the responsibility for the intervention of railway transport under the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of September 13, 2010. The aim of the draft Ukrainian Law is to increase the safety of rail and other transport traffic, and to improve the effectiveness of preventing violations of transport legislation. The essence of the bill. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations in Part of Increasing Responsibility for Involvement in Rail Transport. In particular, free passages on freight trains, landings and landings during the train’s movement, crossings on horseshoes, roofs of wagons, on their own freeway without stopping, and stopping trains. Damage to railway tracks, forest protections, garbage disposals and other items from the windows and doors of train cars, and passage along railway tracks in unattended areas. Infringements of the rules on the carriage of goods by road, the race of cattle through railway tracks, the failure of installed gauges to load and unload cargo. Substantiating railway tracks of objects that may cause train disruptions, damage to the interior equipment of passenger cars. Smoking in wagons that are not set up for smoking on local and long - distance trains and subways. Damage to moving containers, floating and other means of transport for the transport of goods, as well as transport devices. Making changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u133	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u134	Part of the increased responsibility for the intervention of rail transport, such as damage to the ways of transport communication, the blocking of transport communications, and the capture of transport companies, the seizure of the train station and the airport, the port, the station, the bill is granted the right of the well-known military protection of the University to deal with administrative offences. The aim of the law is to improve the safety of rail traffic and prevent violations of transport legislation. It's a bill. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, received a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Justice. The bill was made out by the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, which dealt with the inadequacy of making changes, and the comments were withdrawn in the course of the discussion of the bill at a government committee meeting. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u135	Thank you, sit down. Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your esteemed colleagues, proposed a bill to amend some of the legislative acts to increase the responsibility for intervention in rail transport, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, aimed at improving traffic safety, as well as improving the effectiveness of preventing violations of legislation that regulate transport relations. The bill provides for increased fines in the relevant articles of the Code on Administrative Violations and Articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Expands the ranks of officials who have the right to deal with administrative misconduct and to impose administrative charges. The proposed changes will contribute to the irreparability of the accountability of offenders in the legislation governing transport relations and the filling of the income part of the budget. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, Bill 6552 proposes that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. However, in view of the agreed position of the relevant central executive authorities, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis for first reading. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u137	Thank you. Understand? No, Yuri Anatolyovich, we are considering this law without you. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u138	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, we sometimes change some of the concepts. Now, I would like to quote you, I would like to emphasize, just to quote the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration so that some MPs who are not used to reading projects and who don't want to listen to Carmazin would have a clear sense of at least someone else's opinion. So I'm reading, I don't remind you that I've been working on the Criminal Code for three years, and I know you can't compare sanctions in the Administrative Code and in the Criminal Code today. Thus it is written: “This is what the true God has said. It would be advisable to review the size of the fines," I quote. proposed by the bill for the commission of an administrative offence provided for in article 136 of the Code on Administrative Offences, article 194 of the Criminal Code establishes criminal liability for intentional destruction or damage to property. The consequences of large-scale damage are a hallmark that allows for the restriction of actions provided for in article 136 of the CUP*** and 194 of the Criminal Code. In addition to other forms of punishment for these acts, the Criminal Code provides for a fine of up to 50 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. At the same time, the bill proposes to impose the same fine, the size of the fine, for an administrative offence that has a much lower level of social danger. From the point of view of common logic, such a proposal is paradoxical and violates the logic of both the penal system in articles of a particular part of the Criminal Code and the penalties for administrative offences. The amount of fines for action provided for in Article 136 should be reduced.” End of quote. Dear friends! From this rostrum, I have repeatedly said that a large government, a complex professional government, should be amending not only one article of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences but a new code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u140	I will vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u141	Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u142	I don't know how. But I'm against non-professionalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u143	Thank you, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Thank you, thank you. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on strengthening the responsibility for intervention in rail transport]] Please vote. [[6:12:55]] For 217 The factions. 142 – Party of Regions, “Fatherland” – 11, “Our Ukraine” – 14, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional. I understand that your honourable colleagues that Yuri Anatoliovich's promise to vote in favour of this law has played a bad role has relaxed you. Who's to go back to voting on this law, please vote. [[6:13:33]] For 230 We're back. I'm betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of Bill 6552. Please vote. Vote. [[6:13:56]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have one law to consider in a moment. This is about amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Reported the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Zaitiv Irina Pavlovna. We give her one minute and we vote. Please. Well, then, Karpuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u144	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill under consideration aims to resolve the issue of material support for orphans and children, deprived of parental care and persons of their number. Because the individual positions of the article conflict with other existing legal acts. The first proposal relates to the size of the scholarship. First, article 8 of the Act provides for only orphans and children deprived of parental care. We suggest that this list be supplemented by a category of orphans and children deprived of parental care. It's different. According to the current edition of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law, the scholarship is intended to be paid in a scale that is 50 percent higher than that of the respective educational institutions. It's 300 bracelets for students in vocational schools and 600 and 790.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u145	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u146	And the second proposal relates to the payouts that school graduates receive when they graduate. We suggest that we increase these payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u147	Have a seat, please. Karpuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u148	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Motivating the contradiction between article 8 of the law and Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 226 of 05.04. In 94 C.E., it's in favor of the Cabinet of Ministers. To date, payments are determined by law. We realize that, when these duties are assumed by the Cabinet of Ministers, this leads to a reduction in payments for both orphans and children deprived of parental care. And that's what we need to hear, because in fact, we're not improving the situation, we're making it worse for both orphans and children who are deprived of parental care who are learning. Therefore, this bill cannot be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m1.u149	Yes, they were exchanging thoughts. I am voting on the basis of the first reading of Bill 6555 amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[18:17:29]] For 196 Not accepted. It's not like we didn't make it. Who's in charge of re-reading the first reading, please make up your mind. Vote again first. [[18:18:00]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, thank you for your patience, understanding, operational work. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Please don't forget that tomorrow we're working for 10 o'clock.
