ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:15]] The 423 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies of our colleagues Hayman Oleg Eisikovich and Mhitaryan Nvier Mnazakanović. By the way, Mhitarian Nveir is 50 years old. Please welcome our colleagues, wish you every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 15th. 36 questions on the agenda were considered: 4 laws and 5 decrees were passed, 11 bills were adopted on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 6 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes to make statements by national deputies with proposals, messages, and so forth. Please, Your Honor, make a record of the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National MP Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u2	Olen Bondarenko is to be handed over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u3	Olena Bondarenko, please, instead of Vladislav Lukyanova. The next one will be Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues and compatriots! Ukraine is plagued by increasing claims of alleged censorship and freedom of speech. The National Council for Television and Broadcasting, with the direct involvement of activists who had not noticed yesterday, how in 2005-2010 the National Council for Television and Broadcasting had made dirty decisions on the distribution of frequency and the application of sanctions on unfavourable television and radio networks. In 2007, in Odessa, a photojournalist in the newspaper “Today” was beaten at the BUT rally. In 2007, there was a robbery in the middle of the day, and on the boards of the country, the characters of President Yushchenka were absolutely free of charge. In 2008, the Butov local prince pursued the editor-in-chief of the Vinnitsky newspaper Podoljska Star. In 2008, Nacsovet expelled foreign channels from cable networks, based solely on the principle of “Russian” or “not Russian”. In 2009, a car was blown up by the editor-in-chief of the Chercas newspaper, Entenna. In 2009, the Cave Court banned the criticism of the Government of Timoshenko. And in 2009, journalists were fired from two channels for the Lost All story, released on air. These are the same activists who closed their eyes in 2005 that the small local TV channels of the east and south began to have total problems with the orange Nacsovette. They're the same activists who close their eyes that their colleagues take bribes for ordered articles. These are the activists who throw their fists at those who have a different point of view. If a year, two, three years ago, the declaration of censorship was dissolved in general corporate silence, we are now hearing of censorship from all channels, radio stations, we read about it in all newspapers. And what's funny is why few people pay attention to the apparent discrepancy in the statements of reality. So tell me, in total censorship, as one of the famous television journalists put it, is there anything you can hear, say, about censorship? Censorship is silence, censorship is slander, and censorship is a complete lack of information. The amazing blindness of some of these very activists is replaced by the amazing visibility and microscopic touchiness of others in power. The centurion journalist has long shared all politicians, businessmen and selebrites with their “sucking children” and other “sucking children”. What's the end of it? Look what your sales associates have become! Listen to what the common people say about your work! You will feel a great lack of confidence in society in what a journalist does and how much your profession has devalued! Journalists are used as carnivorous meat in political games and economic conflicts. And I want to turn to all the national journalists who want to change their lives for the better. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u5	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u6	I also want to reach out to those who doubt, seek and question, stop this degradation by themselves, and I urge you to be vigilant, considerate, equally distrustful of everything, compare, analyze, capture, search and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u7	Thank you. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please finish. Jaroslav Jódzik is transferring the right to speak. Yuri Kostenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. The next will be by Oleg Zarubinsky instead of Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian People's Party claims a rapid development in Ukraine of the deukrainization process. This is evident in all areas of Ukrainian life, especially in the information, language, cultural, and spiritual fields. Instead of the restoration of Ukraine, which was linked to the declaration of independence in Ukraine, in the 1990s and 2000s, the process of deukrinating all spheres of social life became particularly vivid. This was most evident in the media. Yes, if in 1995 Ukrainian - speaking newspapers and magazines accounted for 70 percent of the total, and Russian - speaking only 25 percent, today this proportion has changed from correct to wrong. And this is in the background of the permanent statements made by senior officials regarding the need to strengthen the protection of the Russian-speaking population and its cultural and linguistic rights. The same can be said of another level of deukrination that appears in the Ukrainian book. Surprisingly, the Ukrainian authorities declared a real war on the Ukrainian book. For example, when there were 150 bookstores in Kiev in 1990 alone, there were now only 5. And the last brutal manifestation of this policy was the fascination of a bookstore in the center of our capital, Kyiv, the Bookstore "Snow". Ukraine’s final struggle against Ukrainians was the attempt to destroy Ukrainian duplications. And this despite the Constitutional Court's decision, and despite the statements, including the new majority, in the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics, there is a declaration of support for both the Ukrainian book and the language and the Ukrainian cinematographer. Today, we see that all processes are geared up to ensure that Ukraine, Ukrainian in Ukraine, is completely excluded from political life. The Ukrainian People's Party joins the demands of Ukrainian intelligence and calls on the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to destroy the last Ukrainian gain in an independent state. Because Ukrainian duplication is not only a language mark, but, in essence, it is already part of the world's cultural heritage. Today, Ukrainian - language films have become popular in Ukraine. They are also viewed by the Russian - speaking population, as evidenced by the dynamics of growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u10	The dynamics of the growth of those who want to see movies in Ukrainian. So the Ukrainian People's Party refers to the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine: not to destroy the latest acquisitions of Ukraine that we have been able to achieve in almost 20 years of independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u11	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Next will be Andrew Shevchenko instead of Sergio Soboljeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the media! Bank clients are one of the least-protected population categories in the state. They were the ones most affected by the financial and economic crisis. Bank depositors have received undervalued deposits that have been consumed by inflation, which has totaled more than 30 percent in the last two years. Even the return of deposits was a major problem for many, since the money was not given in connection with the moratorium imposed by the National Bank of Ukraine. All of this formed a great lack of confidence in the banks in society. Although in the event of bankruptcy, every natural person under the law is entitled to a deposit refund by the Deposit Guarantee Fund of up to 150,000 dollars, this money can be waited on for years. Therefore, the fear of investors for their money is not unfounded. As for the borrowers, they were under particularly heavy pressure from the banks. For many people, the return on credit has become a problem because of nearly twice the dollar rate. In addition, some banks have been able to raise the interest rate on loans in general, thus violating their original terms. This led many borrowers to seek legal redress. And the number of lenders' lawsuits against banks rose three times in 2009. The number of such lawsuits is projected to continue to increase by about 10 percent each month. The situation in the relationship between banks and customers needs to be fundamentally changed. The State must be determined to intervene in this area and protect human rights. One step to improve the situation should be to encourage banks to give lenders credit holidays before the crisis is over. The suspension in the body’s repayment of credit will enable people to stay away from bank obligations and reduce the level of social tension among lenders who are unable to pay loans in full. Also compromising is the reduction in interest or the extension of the repayment period. The depositors of the banks must receive from the State clear guarantees of the mandatory and timely return of their deposits. This is the only way to restore people’s trust in banking institutions. Compromises and mutual concessions of the parties for the active support of the state are the only way of a civilised, peaceful and painless exit from the crisis. Ukraine must go this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u13	Andrew Shevchenko, faction of Block Tymoshenko. Svetlan Schmelov will be next. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, yesterday there was another wild case directed against Ukrainian journalists. As you may know, yesterday the Ukrainian President's security guard used force against TV news reporter Sergey Andrushka. The video of this incident has already been seen by the whole country, at least by the one who wanted to see it. It looks brutal when a person who, in carrying out his journalistic duties, holds a standstill, a microphone, has a journalistic certificate, is accredited to the west, is thrown at the curb, his hands are broken. Two guards sat on the journalist just because they thought he was moving too fast in the direction of the President of Ukraine. It all looks like a slap, like a slap in the face of a profession, like a slap in the face of the President of Ukraine who's being covered up by these things. Yesterday, the UDO apologized for the actions of its employees. But I think we need to look at this situation in context. It might just be a bit of a misunderstanding if it wasn't for the background on which this is happening, because it was the same day that the director of the TV channel said that his channel was being watched by either the police or the D.A., or maybe the D.A.S.A., the same day that Black Sea Company got a phonegram telling them that this company was depriving itself of VAT, that is, the 18-year-old television company was compared to some single company. This was on the same day that the head of the BSB met with ten representatives of the journalist's “Stop censorship” movement to think about what to do with it; on the same day that the Parliamentary Committee on Freedom of Word was meeting urgently, where the situation with “5 channels” and with the channel TVi was considered. Let's be honest. One situation is a misunderstanding, two situations are a covert coincidence, three situations are a trend, four, more -- I'm afraid it looks like a system. I think that under such circumstances, all the political forces represented in Parliament need to be united in order for Ukraine to remain a state where journalists work comfortably, not vice versa. Yesterday at an extraordinary meeting of the Parliamentary Committee, a two - position decision was unanimously adopted. First position. As representatives of all factions, we urged Parliament to complete and form a temporary commission of inquiry to deal with violations of journalists' rights as soon as possible. The other one. We unanimously invited Parliament to listen as quickly as possible to the individual issue of the situation surrounding TV channels and the “5 channel”. And finally. You know, I think it's very sad when Ukrainian national MPs start teaching journalists how to live and how to work. And let's not poke their eyes with the purchase articles or the plots that our party headquarters pay for very often. I think we should do something completely different, think about how we can support the profession. We remember 2002 and 2004. The wall of censorship builds a brick behind a brick, very inconspicuous. And then you see that there's an impenetrable wall that separates the country from moving forward. I propose that we unite our efforts to protect freedom of speech, to protect our profession.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u15	Finish up, please. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. George Smythuch will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, radio listeners! Today is an outstanding date – 85 years since the creation of the International Children's Centre, Artek. I would like to congratulate all the artefacts of all generations, the teachers, the chiefs, all those who have connected their lives to the child's country of happiness, dreams and fairy tales. We recently celebrated 65 years of the Great Victory. On 22 June, 65 years ago, a change must be made, but the war began. Bombs were dropped on Sevastopol nearby. And the next day, the children were evacuated to Altay. The change ended after the Great Homeland War, which lasted for the longest time in Artec, had been delayed by children from Western Ukraine and the Baltic because there was still war, and there was nowhere to go and no one to return. And in April 1944, after the liberation of Crimea, the restoration of Artec and the adoption of children immediately began. This was the kind of power that thought about the future. Even during the war, children in the Altay region celebrated the birthday of Artec. Regrettably, today, at the all-Ukrainian level, this holiday has been cancelled, there will be no congratulations and no gifts, despite the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers has allocated 15 million to the event. No one remembered that Artek was a factor of peace and understanding on the planet. The vast majority of leaders visited Artek, and the cosmonauts, distinguished scientists, artists, because Artek is a brilliant child country, a country of education. She has made friends with children of all races and nationalities and, of course, the main unifier was good and friendship. It was not by chance that the International Children's Centre was awarded the Order of the Labour Red Mark and the Order of the Friends of the Peoples. It is regrettable that Vladimir Mihajlovich has failed to comply with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of the National Arteca. Throughout history, the heroic and creative community and the generation of artefacts have deserved such status as that of this International Children's Centre. I think today we must congratulate all generations of artefacts because they live with the slogan: "Artekovite today is an artifact always."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u17	Gregory Smythech, please. National MP Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u18	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Dear citizens, fellow MPs, more than 100 days have passed since the President's work, and the leader's prophecies of the opposition that the people must rise up against the new authority are not at all coming true. Because the new authority effectively controls, including in the West of Ukraine. There was confidence that the Jewish objects Euro - 2012 would complete in time. Viktor Janukovic awarded presidential scholarships to prominent athletes and coaches, including Ternopils and Lviv. For many years, Ternopil had not flown airplanes. What future could this be? Today, thanks to the new authorities, the work of Ternopil Airport is restored. A negative tradition breaks down, and in the subsidies of Western Ukraine, the price economy is facing a fierce fight against corruption. Deputy Head of the Navy of Ternopilska has been arrested. Also detained is a candidate for the post of chief policeman, Ternopol. The minister's reaction has not been overturned. The head of the U.S.S.A. area was immediately released. There is also a system in the Republic of Lithuania. A chief of one of the militia raids was detained for a bribe. There are two or three arrests of officials for bribes on Prikarpata every day. Meanwhile, the opposition is fighting corruption hypocritically. It states that it is mandatory to declare the expenses of officials, although it has sufficient members who have hundreds of times the income. Not surprisingly, opposition leaders in the capital do not even support the west of Ukraine. It is the local leadership of the opposition parties, nor the local councils of their factions. So nearly 90 percent of the newly appointed heads of district administrations, heads of administrations, branches in the Ternopil region, are representatives of opposition parties. So the opposition is not going to be against the authorities. On the contrary, she showed a keen desire to work with her for the benefit of the people and to go to the local elections as the only team. This is happening in the corner of the orange revolution, in the western region, which is a barometer of democracy for the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the West! The state is running an unfulfilled slogan of the previous government: “The Bandits — Prisons!” Everything is being done to make the current government program “Ukraine for the People!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u19	Next, the national deputy Soloshenko hands over the right to speak to Nadosh, the faction of “The Block of Juliet. ” ‘ Party of regions, I’m sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u20	Oleg Nadosha, Party of Regions. This talk is intended to draw attention to the disastrous situation that took place in the Ukraine’s State Reserve. During the past 10 years, nine heads have been headed by the RAF. And in virtually every one of them, the looting of the state’s material treasury was massive and independent of the political decoration of the first person. Let me just give you some examples. First. In June 2009, Derzcomreserve sold one of the companies 23,000 405 tons of diesel fuel storage in 2003 at a price of one and a half gallons [1.5 L]. At the time, more than six bracelets were worth a liter of diesel fuel. The damage to the state cost 105 million 322,000 dollars. Later, another company also purchased 14,000,600 tons of fuel for the 2003 strike jets at the price of 30 gallons per liter on the 1st bracelet. A year before that, part of the fuel supply of the Derzcomreserves bought 90 copies per liter for 9 years. The cost to the State was 125 million 560 thousand. Everything above is just the tip of the iceberg. The current state of affairs in the Derzcomreserve is generally concerned that at the time of X we will leave the country without the strategically needed materials of the defence sector and food for the population. I'll give you some more facts. In recent years, the state reserve has virtually failed to keep a record of material values. As a result, by January 1, 2010, the nine - destination food groups did not lead to national levels. According to an internal audit of the State Reserve, there are no 212,000 tons of grain, 8,000 tons of meat, 3,000 tons of top - oil, and 7 million cans of meat cans that have disappeared undetected 2,000 tons of oil. The real stocks of all material values found are eight times less than they are on paper. By the beginning of 2010, the Reserve accounted for the material values of the mobilisation reserve of 532 million dollars, in fact at 65 million dollars. How many more facts do we need to make sure that our law enforcement authorities finally start working? The mountains of information about the thefts are in the airlock. What do you need to violate criminal proceedings against real persons, leaders of the State Reserve? They don't share, they're around us, their names are known, and some of them still work in ministerial positions, some take positions as opposition actors, and the actions of law enforcement authorities against themselves are called opposition pressures. All the time I'm talking about, no, I emphasize, no leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u22	or attracted to responsibility. Be assured, though, that all things that are hidden will soon become manifest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Ksenija Ljapina refers to Stanislav Arzevetin, the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Prepare Goodimi instead of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, this month marks the 20th anniversary of the creation of the Association of Ukrainian Banks, one of the most powerful and influential public organizations in domestic financial space. The association was established in early 1990 and registered in June of that year, before the declaration of independence of Ukraine and the creation of the National Bank of Ukraine. During its 20-year period, the association has identified itself as an active, professional, independent organization whose main task is and will contribute to the development of the domestic banking system, the financial basis for the development of the country's economy. The Association has also made a significant contribution to the creation of a regulatory and regulatory framework for banking activities, participated actively in the development and preparation of Ukraine's first laws on the National Bank of Ukraine, on banks and banking activities, on the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Persons and many others, and has systematically participated in the preparation of a set of regulatory acts of the National Bank of Ukraine that regulate banking activities and create the right conditions for the functioning of the system of commercial banks. The Association has continued to work with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking and has made detailed proposals to the Committee for bills prepared by the Committee and has taken part in its deliberations. An agreement was made between the Supreme Council Committee and the Association in October 2008 on cooperation and coordination. Parliamentary hearings were held several times at the initiative and with the active participation of the Association of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve the banking system, the results of which were used for the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a number of important bills on the protection of the rights of creditors, bank investors and the regulation of the credit market. The Association displayed its business and professional qualities during the financial crisis. Prior to the start of the crisis, the association had prepared economically sound conclusions on the threat of a crisis for Ukraine’s economy and banking system and on how to minimize it. This was announced at the 12th Association Assembly in March 2008 and led to the leadership of the State, to the owners of the banks, but unfortunately they were not included in practical activities. During the crisis, the association took an active part in the preparation of several dozen anticrisis laws. Today, the Association and its Jubilee were welcomed by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and many other state and public organizations. This indicates that the State plays an important role in the development of the banking system, the economy of the country and society as a whole. For its part, the 20th Association has proved its responsibility to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u25	Alexander Goodima, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Next up is Gordianka, the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u26	Dear Chairman! Gudima People's Deputy, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. In 2003, the government of July Timoshenko was legally acquired in Gazprom, which holds 50 per cent of Rosukrenergo shares of 11 billion cubic metres at a price of $157 per thousand meters per $1.7 billion. Also, Russian and Ukrainian government leaders have decided to remove the “Roskrenergo” from the gas market. On June 9, 2010, the Stockholm Arbitration Court committed NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to return Gazprom to 12.1 billion metres of cubic gas. This decision was made possible by the silent agreement of Russia's Gazprom and the leadership of Ukraine, which was deliberately removed from the process for the benefit of its Companion Firtash. The execution of the Stockholm Arbitration Court ruling will lead to the bankruptcy of the NAC “Naftogazu Ukraine” with a sharp rise in population gas prices for the communal sphere and the further impoverishment of millions of Ukrainians. The return to the Ukrainian gas market “Rosukrenerego” is evidence of corruption at the highest level of the state. Now it becomes definitively clear why and for whom Energy Minister Yuri Boyko initiated the acquisition of 10 billion more cubic metres of gas in Russia in April 2010. The conflict of interest between Boyko-Minister and Boyko-Representative of the Firtash team is obvious. It was Yuri Boyko who made the appointment of Firthash’s managers to the post of CEOs of Ukratransgazu and Crushing. The head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Horoshkovsky, recently stated that he had a potential conflict of interest, but in line with Inter and as head of the Security Service. Mr. Horoshkowski forgot to say that he also had a potential conflict of interest with Mr. Firthash, who is potentially the owner of the “Inter” channel group. And yet, admitting to Ukrainian society that Mr. Horoshkovsky has a conflict of interest, including with Mr. Firthash, he is violating criminal cases based on the fact that the Stockholm Arbitration Court has ruled. We will recall that also for the previous President, the head of the Horoshkovsky Service has also violated criminal cases because of the alleged illegal alienation of the gas “Rosukre Energo”. The Yulia Timoshenko faction requires the Yanuković, Firtash and Battle teams to end the deliberate destruction of the fundamentals of Ukraine's energy security and the protection of its national interests. The faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” is protesting against the intentions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u27	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u28	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! From the parliamentary rostrum, I have to talk again about the extremely painful problems of the oil and gas exploration sector of Poland and Ukraine. Yes, the actions of the past government have virtually destroyed the subsidiary Poltava-naphtogasgeology. The main burden of this state’s folly lay on the shoulders of ordinary workers, who turned out to be unneeded. Not enough, they don’t even want to pay their legal wages. Yes, the Karliv oil and gas company’s deep drilling team, according to workers, has not been paid since November 2008. At the constant request of the team, they are told that there is no debt and that the team has not earned it. However, according to workers, according to accounting, they have done a large amount of geological exploration work for more than 5 million dollars, and an accountable debt at $1.05 (U.S.). In 2009, there were more than 2 million dollars. Since November 2008, drilling operations have been halted, but security has continued to work on these objects, but the cost of the work has not been approved. On 21 June 2010, the deadline for workers to be warned about dismissal in connection with the liquidation of the subsidiary Poltavanaftogasgeology is ending. But no one wants to explain to the team how the pay will be paid. Employees are unable to document a retirement benefit due to the failure to pay contributions to the Pension Fund. As workers and district management have pointed out, there is another huge problem: that is the fate of high-level wells that have not been completed. Leaving them alone can lead to technological catastrophes with unforeseeable consequences. As a result, I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of Ukraine, and I am asking for appropriate instructions to study the causes and circumstances of the artificial bankruptcy of the DP “Poltavanaftogasgeology” and its structural units and to protect the rights of workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor, for your statement. With regard to the proposals made in the speeches, appeals, statements made by national deputies, please prepare appropriate assignments. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, at work. President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Andri Andrievich Strizak, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Honourable National Deputies, President of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, on June 15th of this year according to article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, appointed by decree the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Sergio Marjanović. [[Applause]] According to article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act and part of the first article of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes an oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Sergey Markianovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u30	I, Vinocurov Sergey Markianovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u31	Yes, congratulations, dear colleagues. And let me thank the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for participating in our meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Today, we have many questions, so let us work quickly to solve them. The draft Ukrainian Tax Code, government, is being considered for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[Bill number 6509]] Dear colleagues, I remind you once again that we're not considering the Tax Code today, we're just putting it into the agenda. One minute from the faction, please. Yes, Tushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u33	Sergey Anatolyovich Teryochina's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u34	Yes, please, the microphone of Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to remind you that we have been living for almost 8 or 9 months under a law called the Supreme Council Regulation. In accordance with article 107(2) of the Supreme Council Rules, which is called “Recognition of Bills Rejected”, it is noted that the Supreme Council has rejected the bill or – attention! The bill, which repeats it in essence, cannot be submitted to the current and subsequent successive sessions of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, the Supreme Council rejected the draft Tax Code of the People’s Deputy Catherinechuk. Therefore, there is no legislative basis for voting for the inclusion of a new project that appeared yesterday and that does not even fully form a comparative table officially implemented. We have no right. If he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u36	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u37	If so, the bill will be declared unconstitutional in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision of 24 November 2009. By the way, any of the deputies can charge the decision to include such a one in the court of administration. That's why we don't need it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u38	Thank you. Baldirev, please. After him, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u39	I'll pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u40	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Let us not frustrate the normal and effective pace of Parliament's work. We made it clear yesterday that we were first considering Mr. Catherinechuk's Tax Code. We have considered it in full procedure and have found many positive points in it, and I have not been told that the more tangible, more systematic is the Government's Tax Code, which we will have to include in the agenda and consider, and include the best positions of Mr. Catherinechuk's Code. It is now a matter of integrating the Tax Code into the agenda of the government and thus opening the process of consideration of the instrument. Open up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u42	Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u44	Xenia Lupini microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Continuing, in fact, what colleague Teryohin said, I stress, the Supreme Council yesterday, rejecting the draft Tax Code, actually expressed its reluctance to work on the Tax Code -- that is a fact. And any agreements that have been reached in a culinary way are not serious about the background of the law, which is called the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we now include this draft law, we will actually place a mine under any further action to adopt the Tax Code. And in fact, if we continue to advance by illegal means, the state is not built that way, any MP and any citizen can charge this idea with an administrative court and the law of law will be on his side. The Supreme Council must learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! I have nothing to say but one: a country without the Budget and Tax Code cannot live on. We're with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, please. You and I, there are colleagues here who will confirm that over the last 10 years, 20 or 30 special commissions have been created, every government that has come has sworn that we will do anything to ensure that the country will live by the new Tax Code under the new Tax Code. That's why I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 6509. Please vote. [[10:43:56]] For 239. Decision taken. Sergei Anatoliyovich, in response to your observation, I beg you to do your utmost to open the way tomorrow on the committee to address this issue. Factions: Region Party – 169, Block Timoshenko – 16, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" 5, Communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 3. The replica of Terhochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich. I'm just reminding you. Adam Ivanovich, you'll talk to the sponsors later, okay? I simply remind you that according to 100 articles of the Rules after the introduction of the bill, today illegal inclusion, it will take at least 14 days for other subjects of the legislative initiative to submit alternative bills. Therefore, the committee will not meet for at least 14 days, since it is the right of other subjects to make alternatives. Shortening this procedure for codes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act is not envisaged. That's why there's a road situation. Read the Law on the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u48	I'll read the Rules of Procedure Act. The road situation will end with you and me changing the calendar plan, continuing the session. And I guarantee you, by the end of this session, the Tax Code will be adopted. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the increase of responsibility for illegal deprivation of residence rights, Bill No. 4333, is under consideration. Report by Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Yuri Volodymyrovich, where are you? Yes. Perhaps under a reduced procedure? I'm proposing a simplified procedure to deal with this issue. Please vote. [[10:46:35]] For 233 Copy that. Please report, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u49	A respected presiding, respected colleagues, a criminogenic analysis in Ukraine shows an increase in criminal activity related to the illegal possession of citizens’ property, including in real estate operations, real estate operations. In their intention of taking possession of foreign property, criminals do not stop at anything. And these crimes are a major problem because often the victims of fraud are deprived of their real estate rights, and criminal structures receive their profits. Organized real estate crime is characterized by the legalization and operation of criminal groups under the roof of retail firms, notary offices, and security services. Many agencies have been discovered in large cities. The pattern of activity of an organized criminal group is this: a corrupt official who, by virtue of his official status, owns information about potential victims, passes it directly to a criminal group that starts with organizational and technical measures to prepare the crime: to study the way of life of the future victim, his skills, his activities, his acquaintances, and so on. Then a decision is made on how to influence the victim. And the next step is the direct possession of the right to property in which an organized criminal group, i.e. the firm, including usually notariat, BTI and ends up with an illegal court decision based on forged documents. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to increase the liability for illegal deprivation of ownership of housing under conditions of high criminalization of the real estate market. As well as ensuring proper protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens. It is not a secret that organized crime in the real estate field is characterized by what has been said. That is why I propose to amend and supplement article 358 of the Criminal Code, namely, forgeries.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u50	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u51	And there are other articles coming up. In addition, amend article 375 of the Criminal Code, which reinforces the responsibility of judges for misjudgment to 10 years. However, in view of the fact that in the course of the passage of the bill, there were questions which were dissonant with article 190 of the Treaty, where sanctions were envisaged for such actions above, I ask that this bill be sent, which is very important, especially for the Ukrainian community, for work in order to improve all legal norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u52	Have a seat, please. You're asking for work, aren't you? Right. Is there a need to discuss? Dear colleagues, indeed, here are the proposals. On the one hand, let's thank the author for raising this problem, but if you've been looking at the observations of scientific expertise, there really is a need to clarify, because Yuri Volodymyrovich wanted better, and in some places it gets worse. That is, what he proposes will be a milder punishment than the current criminal code of Ukraine. So let's support the author's proposal and send this bill for further processing, please vote. [[10:50:35]] For 345. The bill is aimed at further development. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the limitation of non-planned measures on State oversight in the field of economic activity is under consideration. [[control]] [[4815]] [[author of the Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko Bill]] Please, Anatoly Stepanovich. Short cut? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue in short notice. Please vote. [[10:51:19]] For 273 Decision taken. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, this bill was introduced long ago. The goal is to simplify business conditions, business conditions in Ukraine. This is what everyone has promised, and what the new president and coalition now declares. This is about pre-planned tests, about sorting these tests. The bill provides a comprehensive list of reasons for carrying out checks that are not planned. That's the first one. The second is the responsibility of an official who is involved in checks that have not been carried out before. And the third, important, is being stripped of the right of anyone out of the street irresponsiblely, and more often from competitors, to initiate a pre-planned business review. In addition, deadlines are reduced and it is prohibited to check anything in advance. Simple, logical. I'd like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u54	Please, from the committee, Vice-President of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Leapin Kseniya Mikhailnovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u55	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the draft law on March 31, 2010. The purpose of the bill, in our view, is indeed to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity. During the discussion of the bill, however, the committee noted that adopting the proposed changes could lead to a deterioration in the situation of consumer protection, budgetary discipline, and so forth. In view of the above, the members of the committee decided that the draft law would be appropriate for the consideration of the Supreme Council and that it should be rejected. I might say that, I think, in this case, this bill can be adopted as a basis. In fact, there's a revolutionary proposal to give up extracurricular checks on any abstract complaints or signals called, and to do so solely according to the court's decision. And this can, indeed, seriously change the relationship between inspection bodies and operators. The bill has many things to work on. I can say that half of what Anatoly Stepanovich has declared is already provided for by law today, but no one is executing it from the authorities. That's the problem. And if the authorities can break a law that they don't write in law, they will violate it. However, the decision to make such a radical change in the grounds for the conduct of extracurricular examinations can really have a positive impact on the situation, and my advice is, nevertheless, to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? Yes. But let's put it this way: if no one else, no writing, if they still are, then. Not anymore? Please, Karmazin. No, Carmazin's asking for his word, so I'm giving it to him, and the rest won't be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u57	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! It's a very good bill. Unfortunately, I don't think he's being supported today. The only question is, how do we do this so that we don't abuse this law? The bill that is now. What do I mean? On May 1, all the Chinese suddenly turned off their TV sets. Everyone was forced to switch to digital language. It's a bigger problem for people now. Such companies. I'm not saying that their owners of other countries -- Israel, others -- are offshore companies, our telecommunications networks are somehow passed on to them, and I want to tell you that here is my experience of dealing with these issues of responding to complaints, this whole thing -- I'm told by Zarubinsky's deputies and others that it's "The Cable Will". And the cable will and the VAT IVK, and the VAT "Kyivsk telecommunications networks" are many more. So I want to inform you that I am in charge of this correspondence with the authorities. The Ministry of Economics -- we don't have that kind of ministry, Mr. Tsuko, if he can hear me. What he said, he can't do anything, he can't do anything. Impotential completely, so the Sustainable Standard, the assigned young gift, can't do anything. Only the Antimonopoly Committee made a more thorough examination, Kostusev, thank him, but the result is not yet, because the Attorney General is silent because he can't tax. So you know what they're saying? They answer -- Mr. Grizzenko, I'd like you to hear what they're saying right now -- they say, “And we can’t do a pre-planned check.” Now they've shut down all the kyans. They've shut it down. They made them buy 399 bracelets, they made it, yeah. They made other things to do. They put the pensioners on their knees. “And we can’t do an unscheduled test because the law forbids,” we have to think about such cynicism! That's what we've got.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u58	Done? Well, finish your thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u59	So, honourable national MPs, we have adopted this bill, but to predict that in cases where constitutional rights are violated, in these cases it is necessary to carry out checks beyond plan, it is necessary to take measures to ensure that no one misuses it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of Bill No. 4815: the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the limitation of non-planned measures of State control, control in the field of economic activity. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:58:33]] For-170. The decision is not supported. There are no other suggestions. The committee suggests that it be rejected at all. Therefore, there are no other proposals; the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act is under consideration. [[concerning the regulation of the broadcasting of programs and online bidding broadcasts]] Bill number 4510. Reports the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna. Helen Constantine, can we cut it? I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:59:32]] For 255 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Head, honourable national deputies, first of all I will point out that, as sponsors of this bill, we do not wish to impose a total ban on online television competitions. Because he also, as a mere viewer, has in many cases coexisted. we experience and suffer for certain participants in interactive entertainment shows. But in our opinion, the Internet on television should be without deceiving our fellow citizens. The need to adopt this bill is due to the lack of legislative requirements to properly inform the viewers about the conditions of participation in live broadcasts and online competition programmes, the lack of clear legislative rules on the characteristics of such programmes and broadcasts are the cause of numerous cases of financial losses to television broadcasters. In my opinion, given that the main audience, participants in similar interactive games, such as Guess the Word, are minors and older people, the legislative alignment of relations in the field of broadcasting of online pay-per-view competitions, games and quizrals is essential for not only the need to impose legislative warnings, but also. Introduction. and misleading, but also taking into account the unworthy provision of adequate conditions for the healthy moral development of teenage TV and radio audiences. The project is proposed to prohibit broadcasting, except in restricted channels, online competitions, whose terms are directly or indirectly intended for the person to become a participant and transferee. However, the above prohibitions do not extend to broadcast programs or lottery games, creative competitions, sports competitions, regardless of what is expected to happen to them. On channels with limited access and online bidding, games and quizzes are distributed to meet certain conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u62	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u63	I would like to support this bill, because it is absolutely apolitical, it was supported by all the members of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. But I'm also asked to report the bill on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u64	Report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u65	In the light of the above, I report that on 3 June 2009, the committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting. To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft Law on Television and Broadcasting to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[concerning the regulation of software broadcasts and online bidding broadcasts]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. As coauthor of the bill, it is worth noting that considering the need to take into account proposals that have unfortunately not come. came from professional organizations and professional organizations after considering the bill at the committee meeting, as well as with a view to taking into account the comments and suggestions of the scientific and expert management, it is appropriate to adopt Bill 4510 in the first reading on the basis that in preparing the bill for the second reading, the committee could take all the comments and suggestions into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u66	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? Is it? Please sign up. Please, Karmazin, prepare for Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u67	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. The honourable national MPs, of course, the changes that are being proposed today are amendments to article 6 of the Television and Broadcasting Act and changes that they propose and make a new article 55 prim. “Programmes and broadcasts with paid interactive competitions and games, quizrals”. These are the bills that I think are necessary. It's necessary. And I'd like to thank both Condratuk and Bagraev for catching what's going on in society today. And the fact that these things are the ban on broadcasting except on channels with limited access to online competitions, where there are pay conditions, pay time and so on, you know, that's absolutely right, because it's old people and children who don't understand what they want to get money from. And I looked at the purity of the document. And I think that in principle this law can be passed in general. And I rarely see such decisions by the committee that it also offers in general, but in this case it can be accepted. I mean, despite the fact that the Chief Scientific Expert's remarks say that it can be taken as a basis, but it's completely small and such minor observations. Because of this, by supporting the bill, thanks to the authors for introducing it, I think that this law will be a useful thing for Ukrainian citizens. And I propose that you accept it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Pavlovsky, please. Get ready for Zarubinski. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u69	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear compatriots, national MPs! I think we should support a bill that regulates the broadcasting of pay-per-view programmes through online competitions. Because there's a lot of appeal from citizens when little kids take part in this, underage kids, and then parents come up with huge bills, and that's how these fraud programs get money out of our citizens. Older people are also accepted later. participation, then there's no pension to be counted for these programs. What's more, I think half the countries, sorry, have already received these stupid "Guess the Word" programs. I think it's time to put an end to this and there should be government regulation on this issue. And that's why I propose to support the bill, both in the first and second readings and to accept it as a whole. And I would also like to thank the authors for this timely and needed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u70	Please, Oleg Zarubinski. She's proud to be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! Let's be honest with ourselves that all these interactive games on TV are not hidden. It reminds me of the same gaming business, only when it comes to these one-armed bandits are teenagers and gamers usually there. Remember, Stefan Zweig has a "Gamer" -- such a novel that describes a person simply destroying himself morally when he does it. In addition to the young, there are pensioners. Indeed, the pensioners are involved. So it seems to me that the idea is right, but I'm opposed to these interactive games at all. Do we have to take it more seriously that people are just being fooled, and how do we cheat? See in the observations of the Science and Technology Administration it's absolutely correct to say, if these are interactive games, why are they broadcast in the record? Where, then, is the reliability, even, of some hypothetical probability, that someone might win something? She's not here at all! This isn't a broadcast, understand this, I want to say this to those who listen to us: don't play these games, they're just fooling you! It's not a broadcast, it's in the record. And they already know the results. And you'll never win these interactive games. And there's more. The law should prohibit the basics if they are to be allowed to play interactive games, although I think they should be strictly prohibited by banning the status of minors. You know what I mean?? This is not the case, a minor may register in the wages of these games, and where he will take money — in his grandmother’s retirement or in his parents ’ custody, or in the streets may be taken. I think we need to make the law a lot tougher, support the idea, and re-enact this regime in the first reading, well, to just get rid of it. I understand that TV sets smile, they realize it's money. Well, you can't cheat on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u72	Thank you. Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u73	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I pressed the "against" button because I am against legal fraud in this area. Each citizen’s reception in the regions is bound to address the question that their families lose large sums of money and come up with bills they cannot pay. So I support all of the speakers in the fact that we need to substantially increase the position of state influence until the ban on conducting what is called online competitions on air. What's more, according to colleagues, there are sometimes no direct interactive competitions there, and there's a fraud in the record. Maximumly, it just sounded like you could take both as a basis and as a whole. The maximum that we can agree on in this situation is to send the bill back for re-reading, and to significantly strengthen the positions that will protect our radio and television audiences.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u74	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act. [[concerning the regulation of the broadcasting of programs and online bidding broadcasts]] [[Registration number 4510]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:11:32]] For-173 There's an offer, there were suggestions to send it back for re-reading. Please support this proposal: sending Bill 4510 for re-reading. Please vote. [[11:12:03]] For 393 The bill is aimed at re-reading the first reading. There's no motive. The draft Law on Collective Governance rights to creation, execution, phonographs, videograms. Registration number 2451. Report by Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Short cut? Who's in favour of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:12:46]] For 260 Decision taken. Please, not Kenzier. Davemuk, one of the co-authors. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The existing Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights clearly does not address the issue of monitoring the activities of collective management organisations, the order in which they are created and eliminated, the criteria for setting up organizations on account, the principles of financing, the institutional and legal forms of their activities. At the moment, there are 14 collective management organizations, the State Department of Intellectual Property of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. They introduce a variety of contractual practices, principles of distribution of funds, reporting of users. This creates artificial competition, tariff wars between organizations, and a deepening conflict of interests between primary subjects of copyright and adjacent rights. Today's state of collective management of rights to creation, execution, phonograms, videograms in Ukraine, analysis of its development over recent years and forecasting further economic prospects shows the need for a substantial improvement in the legal framework for monitoring the activities of collective management organizations. Helpful. According to the National Court of Auditors, only about 30 million dollars of remuneration are collected each year in the country, which experts estimate is only 3 percent of the potential amount of income. For example, in Ukraine, there is 20 times less than in Poland, 10 times less than in Hungary with 10 percent, 8 times less than in Slovakia with 5.4 million. Ukraine's proposed bill on collective governance of rights to creation, execution, phonographs, videograms are directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u77	He had an appropriate public discussion, supported by our committee and the Committee on Culture, and so practically by all creative associations. I'm going to mention two features of this bill. First. We're taking away from the Copyright and Related Rights Act the part that applies to collective governance. We're not the first ones on this. World practice in recent decades has shown that this is the most variable part of the Copyright and Companionary Rights Act, and in many countries it has already been allocated to ensure that the basic skeleton of the Copyright Act remains unchanged. In particular, the corresponding law was adopted in Germany for the first time in 1965, and in Belgium in 1995, Slovakia in 1997, Portugal in 2001, the Netherlands in 2003, Malta in 2003, Luxembourg in 2004 and Austria in 2006. We accepted the same idea. The bill sets out the legal principles for the creation, implementation and cessation of collective management organizations' rights to creation, the execution of phonograms, videograms in Ukraine and aims at the realization and protection of the rights of creators of other persons belonging to intellectual property rights. It consists of four chapters: “General positions”, “Collective management of rights to creation, phonogram performance, videograms”, “Consolidation of organizations of collective governance” and “Cultural administration of rights to creation, performance of phonograms, videograms”. The bill regulates the requirements for the establishment of collective management organisations, their state registration and certification, the authorization of such organisations and their functions. A requirement is laid down for collective management contracts and payment and distribution contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u78	Stepan Antonovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u79	And they're also putting them together. I would like to point out that this bill was the most appropriate one, which led to other bills that dealt with partial issues. The biggest discussion is the formation of a suitable chamber. And in this part, I think we're just approaching the development of democracy when we need to create community-based public organizations. Actually, this idea is supported by creative associations and it's already in the Act on Cinematography, which is accepted and signed by our President.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Yes, please, Viziewski. Be prepared for Paul’s. Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u81	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill, because it is aimed at filling a substantial gap that exists today in copyright. This refers to the creation of registration activities and the operation of so - called operations. organizations of collective copyright management. The absence of such regulation today leads to numerous conflicts, to the inability to register these organizations frequently, and to perform the functions of these organizations by organizations that should not have such status, such as public organizations or trade unions, although collective management organizations are income-generating organizations and should therefore not be trade unions or public organizations. At the same time, I would warn against the creation of state-population bodies such as the palace, which should be a roof over the entire system. It seems to me that the practice of such chambers in Ukraine is sufficiently negative and would not want to create further problems in this respect. It seems to me that democracy is enough for each collective management organization to carry out its activities in accordance with the law. Thank you. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Andrew Pavlovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u83	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please pass the word to Mr. Polochalo. The committee heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I'm actually now paying attention to your attention to the fact that there are three laws that deal with copyright and neighbouring rights. And I'd like to inform everyone here to let you know that today we are 114th in the world from 130 countries to protect and protect copyright. [[It's Geneva. rating]] 114th place! It's not going anywhere anymore! Every year, we jump on worse steps. We are in serious danger of holding the Euro-2012 because there are many reasons why we have such protection of copyright and adjacent rights when the Euro organisers simply do not take risks, and this is linked. It's just not in the stadiums that there's going to be a problem, it's copyrighted. I'm just warning the ruling coalition today to pay attention to this, because it can be serious. And Mr. Kolesnikov, including. If we do not adopt these laws, we will have serious problems, or there will be serious problems in the coalition, and there will be serious problems in the country. And the second. The shadow economy is said to be 50 percent, 60 percent. And this queen, my dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to everyone in this room, 95 percent is in the shade. Now for the government. Dear government officials, if these laws are passed -- first, second and third -- you'll get 200 million dollars in this area next year. It's an expert evaluation, an impeccable evaluation. All over the world, they're already getting trillions of money for this, and we have, say, 3 million euros in the country, 3 million euros. Structures all criminalized, shadow economy in last place. You can get the budget. And so if. I'm just paying attention to both the authors and the drafters of this bill: if you don't support it -- first, second and third -- take responsibility for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u86	Question completed. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Collective Governance of Rights to Creation, Performing, Phonograms, Videograms. [[Registration number 2451]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:23:32]] For 165 The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of Regions – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 124, “Our Ukraine” – 41, Communists, “Clocus of Lithuania”, “The Postfaction” did not vote. The draft Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights is under consideration. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4451]] The draft is not available. Is Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo ready to report? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u87	Can we consider it briefly? I'm making a proposal to review this bill with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, well, I'm sorry, to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u89	Now, if you'll excuse me, Vladimir Ivanovich, I'm sorry, there's a vote coming. [[11:24:37]] For 1052 It's not a decision you make, it's a full-blown procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I just want to say the point of view of all those who are involved in this area. It's a shame that there was some misunderstanding of political intrigue and political context. As far as this bill is concerned, I will add the greatest claim from international structures, international organizations to copyright legislation and related rights. It's practically a new edition, and it's been working on it for over two years, even a few years. You've read three Bill books that fit, they contain recommendations for parliamentary hearings, committee hearings. In other words, this law completely fits into everything that we've already approved in this Parliament and even in this composition. But this bill needs to be introduced for first reading. So the committee has certainly supported this bill and I want to tell you, I'm going to cut down on my own. A little performance in that sense. But once again, if there is no regulation of legal relations with valid legislation, there are ongoing legal disputes about the right to use such works: Should they be amended? The project therefore proposes to expand the list of works that are not subject to copyright, including programmes, statutes, and other institutional documents of political parties, citizens’ associations, other legal persons, as well as their projects and draft acts and other official documents of public authorities. The bill is also designed to specify a circle of objects that are not protected by copyright, allowing them to be used unhindered in the interests of society. If this law is passed, we go. We are talking about the first reading today, which will balance: (a) the interests of the authors of projects, acts and other official documents, the interests of the authorities, the unification of citizens and other legal persons. So, your honorary colleagues, it's already been said that this is a failure, that there may be serious claims to us, that we've been losing for many years today because of such an important component of intellectual property, such as copyright, we don't work today and we're in the shadows. I'm just saying again, I see, no. Although I have great doubts about this law, which is extremely important. Once again, he was preparing a huge group of people. Unfortunately, the drafter of the bill, you know, is missing for some reason today. But I would like to warn again, and I want to say this for our viewers, for international structures, I would like to make a roll-call vote for this bill, and we're going to illustrate it at all international conferences where the representatives of the Party of Regions will be speaking, and we're going to say who's blocking our country today, who's blocking our protection and protection of copyright, which today is impeding our legislation to suit Europe, who today is creating conditions for Ukraine to be pushed out of the market for intellectual and adjacent rights. I think you should know your heroes in the face. There are declarations, there are demagogies, and there are real things that touch the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u91	Are there any questions? You don't? Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. From factions. It's from the deputies. Yes, please, Stepan Davymuk, microphone from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u92	Stepan Davemuk, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, this proposed law, the draft law that we are considering, drawn up as a result or in directions that have been worked out by appropriate meetings -- committee hearings, parliamentary hearings, etc. In fact, there has been a situation that this area is the most corrupt and full-blown, because it requires the cooperation of many services -- both the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Justice, the Customs Service, and so on. In fact, the level of tracking of these processes depends on the level, as it were, of statehood, of the functioning of all these mechanisms. It's a complex system and it's a very difficult task. It's a difficult task in other countries, including the European Union, because so far they haven't been able to create a single directive on this issue, and different countries are working in their own way. Therefore, we should definitely take this first step. And Donya's law in the first reading, as the committee recommends, is to adopt. This will be a signal to society as a whole of just serious positive developments in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u93	Thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote bill number 4451 – draft Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. [[new editor]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:09]] For 158. The bill is not supported. There's an offer: One more time, because the committee offered to take it. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who's in charge of rerouting the first one, please make up your mind. [[11:31:40]] For-157. Not supported. The bill was rejected. Factions: The regional party is 0, Block Timoshenko is 121, Our Ukraine is 36, the rest have not voted. Bill 3411 is under consideration, the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Competitive Rights. [[about works that are not copyrighted]] Can I have a shorter procedure? Please vote, support the proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. [[11:32:32]] For 241 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This bill, unlike the previous one, is not global in nature and is aimed at solving one specific issue that is in the field of copyright regulation. Legal doctrine states that the author’s right to use the work he created is based on a monopoly recognized by the author. The definition of the reasonable limits of such a monopoly has been discussed for a long time. In particular, the problem arises from the creation and adoption of documents of a public nature of laws and other acts, acts of authorities, programming and establishment of political parties and other associations of citizens, legal persons who are not excluded from the copyright law. The adoption of the proposed bill is aimed at the implementation of article 54 of the Constitution, which establishes basic principles of copyright. In particular, part two of this article defines the principle of combining the personal interests of the author and the interests of society, providing for the possibility of legally establishing exceptions to the general provision on the author’s monopoly right to use the work. The need for the adoption of this bill is due, on the one hand, to the lack of legal protection of copyright on draft acts of the authorities; on the other hand, to the public character of the works concerned, to their purpose in considering and modifying the possible subject of the adoption of the relevant act or other official document, to their unlimited use, including by any subject or legal person. So in a sense, they have to be excluded from the area of legal regulation of copyright by virtue of a direct provision of the law. The lack of regulation of the specified legal relations by valid legislation provides a basis for legal disputes regarding the right to use or amend the relevant works. In particular, accidents, obstacles to the use of such public documents, such as statutes, are encountered in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u96	from copyright subjects, supported by appropriate evidence of copyright. The bill is designed to preserve the copyright on a draft act or other official document outside the process of its consideration and adoption, which gives the author the full scope of exclusively intangible rights to such a work. On the other hand, removing the possibility of obstacles on the part of the author of the project, in terms of copyright, in the process of considering the project, accepting it, or making changes to it by the subject. Thus, the bill establishes that the author of the project is entitled to this project outside of his consideration or acceptance by an act authorized. And he has no right to interfere with an authority or organization that has already adopted a public act, to make changes to it and to use it. In view of the increasing frequency of such problems in practice, these issues need to be addressed, and this is what the bill is about. I would like to support this bill in the first reading. This will remove a number of problems and streamline the activities of a department with intellectual property rights regarding statutes, party names, and other subjects, including business subjects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u97	Thank you, sit down, please. Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Ivanovich, from the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! The committee considered it, the bill. As the author said, he does not solve the issue globally. Yet, it does help to make serious legal arrangements in law enforcement when legal disputes arise. So I'm reporting the point of view of the committee that recommended that this bill be adopted as a basis. And in general, since we have three laws today that touch intellectual property, copyright and adjacent rights, I want to say. We have the Civil Code of Ukraine and there is an absolute inadequacy of the Civil Code and the Law on Copyright and Complementary Rights, other legislative acts today that we have not passed the previous law. This has to do with this law. And I want to tell you that that's why we signed up in our own unwillingness to implement the rules of legislation, the European Union's legislation on copyright protection and the adjacent rights to Ukrainian legislation. In the realm of copyright and adjacent rights, Ukraine took a step back. There can be no integration in this sense. I, as chairman of the committee, will also be required to inform everyone, at any international conference and in international structures, of the position of the governing coalition on copyright and neighbouring rights, and the adoption of legislation. And I would like to say again that today, all the authors, the creators of the intellectual product, have clearly seen how they view this most important area, which is the basis for developing and raising the economy. There can be no economy without intellectual property and innovation. If they're not protected, there's a lot of people interested, I mean. We know the names sitting here in the hall of the people who are involved in the criminal business in the area of copyright and adjacent rights. And believe me, it would be better to pass this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u99	Yes. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? Yes. Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u100	I wanted to support the drafters of the bill, which they were, because in this sensitive area we need to organize legislation, the more strange the position of the governing coalition, which, without explaining anything, does not vote for such important issues. Well, I think our scientists will come to the right conclusions. And Klukkowski's bill is needed; it should be supported in the first reading. I suggest we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u101	Project discussion completed. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending article 10 of the Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. [[11:40:14]] For-162 Not supported. Once again, I put the offer first. [[11:40:39]] For a hundred and Not supported. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Measures against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, Precursors, Toxic and Violent Medical Devices and Abuse is under consideration. [[Registration number 2139]] The author of the Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal bill. Can we cut it short? Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure, and the author requests. [[11:41:31]] For 244 Offer supported. Please, Hennady Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today it is sad to say that Ukraine has first place at the rate of drug abuse of society in Europe. This is a cause of great concern not only in Ukraine but also in world society. And you know that if we step up the fight against drugs, we don't see any. I mean, Schengen visas and others, not for 90 days, not for more. These are requirements that have long been accepted by Ukraine but not implemented. I want to be heard today by millions of Ukrainian citizens who have this problem at home, and they don't know how to deal with it, because today there are many issues that are not settled. Some want to treat people, their children, and they want to go to court. Unfortunately, though, we have forgotten this standard, even though it is in all civilized countries. We haven't had that kind of drug use in 19 years of independence. So I understand that there are some warnings, there are some observations, there are some imperfections, and maybe there are some inadequacies in the draft of this law, but given the situation in Ukraine today, it would be better if all factions were willing to support the bill in the first reading, then to fill it with that content and reality that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u104	the questions that were raised yesterday before the Prime Minister of Ukraine at his meeting in Luxembourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u105	Thank you. From the committee's head of the committee for the fight against organized crime and corruption of Rybek Alexander Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the bill that is proposed is urgent today and individual positions are designed to increase the effectiveness of this struggle in general in the State and to promote the law enforcement agencies in this regard. These are situations, such as controlled supply of narcotic drugs, operational purchases, operating sales, and others. But in determining the system itself. The author proposes that the National Coordinating Council should focus on combating drug abuse in the Cabinet of Ministers, which monitors the implementation of this law. The legislative proposal was not supported by the committee, since it does not conform to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act. No support was found for the amendment to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which establishes the responsibility for investing in illegal circulation, for failing to provide a reply on the written requirement of public authorities for the distribution of funds received from illegal circulation and for the creation, or acquisition, of business entities for the purpose of covering up illegal activities. In addition, articles 22, 23 and 31 of this bill narrow down the constitutional rights of citizens. According to part three of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the adoption of new laws or amendment of existing laws prevents the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed down, and according to part three of article 28, each person may be subjected to medical, scientific, or other research without. can't without her free consent. This is also mentioned in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Cabinet of Ministers also made a number of comments on the need for conceptual drafting of the bill. Who.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u108	reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill, to return its subject to processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u109	Thank you. Yes, is there a need for discussion? Yes. Who but Carmazin insists? Bondarenko? Not anymore? Then please, no record, Carmazin. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like to thank Hennadia Hennadiovich Moskal for his carelessness in this report. Dear Hennaday Hennadiovich! Of course, you've had to listen to the committee, and now on the Supreme Council, absolutely, perhaps, but critical remarks. I don't want to add critical notes, believe me, I have them too. But I'd like to say good things. So, I think that in this law, which is, in fact, a new version of the law that we have, which was called "On measures against illicit drug circulation, psychotropic substances and precursors and abuse of them," I would like to say that this is a new edition, which is more western, more advanced, which offers more serious possibilities to combat this criminal phenomenon. The possibilities, in fact, give Moskal much more. So I would like the committee and representatives of the committee, like the factions today, to change their anger into mercy, and criticizing the Moscow bill would take it as a basis. Together we would do very quickly, before summer vacations, a very good law of order, in which no rights of anyone would be violated. What's good about that? It's so-called operational reverse sales of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, precursors, toxic and powerful, these are new operational-research measures that we don't have in place today and are not being implemented. Because I can't think that what appears to be overlapped by certain units is operational work. No, it's not. But their hands must be untied to combat this crime. But we also need to protect the sick. And therefore, Gennady Hennadiovich, apparently.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u111	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u112	I'm sorry. So, Gennady Hennadyovich, your suggestion that when we send a person with a drug addiction to compulsory treatment and a reason to stop teaching in the established law order is a reason, I think it's wrong. We need to remove the drug addict, treat and get back to work, to study. Where are we going to take him? We're not gonna put him on the moon. The circumstances made it, the society made it this way. I urge you, let's adopt this law in the first reading. I even call on the honourable members of the committee. Let's take it, work it out, and it'll be a good law, and we'll do a good thing for Ukraine. We'll clean it up from drug abuse and cure those who are addicted today, they're sick, they don't understand what they're doing. And we understand, we're healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u113	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko. Behind him is Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u114	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. A number of laws have just been broken regarding copyright protection. It seems to me that the conscious activity of today’s coalition in non-compliance with these laws has two objectives. The first is to downgrade the opposition that any draft legislation imposes, and they don't give for it, whether it's good or bad laws, no argument "for" or "against" and they just fail. And the second is to reject our country on its way to Europe, to the civilized world, to leave our northern neighbour's standards, which is the main transit territory for drugs through Afghanistan to Europe and so on. Including Ukraine to include it. This is already true of this law. I would like to point out that today the circulation of drugs is in such an interesting area as medicine. I have the practice of creating a hospice in which people get help in the face of terrible cancer. Thus, a series of huge warnings must be passed through to obtain medication for the introduction of a person into a vein. At the same time, a large number of drugs are now spinning and disappearing in certain cases or in the vast majority of cases by the authorities themselves. Moreover, in individual criminal matters, drugs are used to throw away those who are then to be held accountable and sometimes for political reasons. In many cases, in 2004 and later, drugs were used to blackmail students. They were bombed, drugs. We need to establish a stiff, cruel, I'd say responsibility for drug use by militia units in the fight against the opposition. This is especially important today when our police take a political position in favour of one political force.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u115	Please, Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It's a problem. Or the law that we're considering, first of all, I think it's about the national problem, the whole Ukrainian people. Because with such phenomena and rates as we gain in this part of the problem of social importance, such as the distribution of drugs and their uncontrolled, so to speak, consumption in some of the very social chains of our, our civil society is dangerous and is essential in order to really look at it and really strengthen state control. As for this problem, I support it to become a subject of a separate law, a separate discussion, but not of a reduced procedure. Why? Because Gennady Hennadyovich Moskal, who is the author of this bill, has long worked in internal affairs, he knows, I think, or he has real information about this, this, this problem. And, of course, we would like to hear it as the national MPs, and what is happening, what is the pace of this negative phenomenon in Ukraine today, the distribution of this drug, which population category is involved and who is contributing to this issue. You remember the scandalous stories of Crimea, and you remember the scandalous stories that sounded on the news media in Kharkiv. But we have not heard the outcome: and who is responsible, who is responsible, who is responsible, or who is attracted, including by organs, law enforcement agencies, criminal responsibility, or even the responsibility of discipline. So I think that this law or the problem that is lit up in this law is necessary for society to solve, but the law is not perfectly written, and it does not cover all the problems that this law needs to solve. What's more, in the part of the fact that, if you look at the compulsory treatment of people who are drug addicts, of course, on one side of the Constitution is a violation of the Constitution, because compulsory treatment under the Constitution is prohibited and on the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u118	This is a category of people who are dangerous to our society. So I would ask the Supreme Council to go back to this question, but in part of this bill, we have to go back to the work and the process of furthering the involvement of other professionals and making the law normal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u119	Thank you. The discussion is over. There's a request from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, please. Press the button there. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Farinnik Vasil Ivanovich. We fully support the bill proposed by Hennadiy Hennadiovich, and we ask him to accept it on the first reading, but we need to work on it. And the law is very necessary and very timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the first reading of the draft Law on Measures against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, Precursors, Poisonous and Violent Medical Devices and Abuse. [[Registration number 2139]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:56:06]] For-149 Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, it'll be the factions. The factions. The Party of Regions – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 116, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 33, the rest has no votes. Dear colleagues, let us be without politics. The law is necessary. But including the profile committee said it wasn't written like that, and he's right, it's a profile committee. Hennady Hennadiyovich, the first deputy head of the committee, would have to convince the committee there that a decision should be made. So I'm asking, let's support another proposal. I'm the only one who'd like to consult the author and the committee. Whom should I send for work, either the author or the committee? author. Then I put to the vote the proposal to send a bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please be supportive. Vote. So let's get the author to work on it, and let's take a look at it. [[11:57:23]] For 374 Hennaday Hennadiovich, we're you. We're expecting a new version of the bill from you, I'm sure it'll be accepted. Carmazine. You have some interests there, Yuri Anatolyevich. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You have now heard the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs that the law on countering illicit drug trafficking is necessary and this law could be finalized. Today we have included with you, more faithfully you have included the Tax Code, which has already been rejected. Let's do it this way, Adam Ivanovich. If this law is now passing Moskal in the final version, and I promise to take the lead and it will be finalized, let's also include it and consider it for the holidays, Adam Ivanovich. Because we have to fight drugs now, we can't wait any longer, because summer is coming. You know, we lose people, we lose people's gene pool. Well, listen to your Ministry of Internal Affairs and the MPs. Listen and take the same approach as you did under the Tax Code so that we have the same law regarding the Rules. Now, you see, Chechtov raised his hand, and I think he'll support the fight against drugs, and I don't think there's any drug addicts there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u123	Yuri Anatolyevich, the author's problem. As soon as he's given a new version of the bill, he'll be looking into the session hall. I don't see any obstacles here, and you're helping him. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u124	Yuri Anatolyovich! I mean, our half of the hall doesn't work, I don't know how you do it, yeah. That's the first one. Second. You saw the vote, it united the Chamber, the constitutional majority voted, supported the Minister's position. Here are the decisions we need to make when not 50 votes, or 30 votes, or 20 votes, but 350 votes, 370! We demonstrate to the country that we have a people's parliament that is ready to defend people's interests, and we will surely adopt this law. We will vote 300 votes with you, I'm sure, and I hope, and you will be allies in this part. Because once again, there is no need for drug trafficking anywhere in your territory or in your country, yes. We'll fight, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u125	Please, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u126	Thank you. I also want to say to the previous speaker, not the title of the bill, but you look at what the author of the bill is proposing, which is probably not written by itself, but someone wrote and, sometimes, we waved, and then we think that I signed in the end. And that's essentially why we voted. did not vote in favour of the first reading. And it was very important to listen very carefully to what the deputy minister said that he had left the hall and he was hugging somewhere with Moskal, so he said we should accept it, but work on it, but he doesn't know our regulatory finesse, so he said, for work. And I think the Supreme Council did the right thing, we want the title of the law to be fully consistent, the content to be consistent with the title of the law to be drafted constitutionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u127	Thank you. On this good note, I announce a break of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u128	Please come into the session room, we'll continue the sessions. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Terrorism Act is under consideration for conducting an anti-terrorist operation outside Ukraine. [[Bill of the People's Deputy Kulikova]] [[Registration number 4105]] Kirilo Borisovich, can we take this as a shortcut? There is a proposal to support the author's opinion that we should consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. Let's try it, please vote. [[12:29:49]] For 118 They didn't make it. Once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Vote. It's gonna be okay. [[12:30:17.]] For 231 Decision taken. This is the chairman's fault, because he came a minute earlier. Please, Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u129	Honorary colleagues, the Terrorism Act, adopted to protect individuals, states and societies from acts of terrorism. Today, there is such a situation that the state of Ukraine does not perform its primary function of protecting its citizens, not protecting its families and everything else. The army does not perform its function of protecting the state. And all we have today is a very sad story about how Ukrainian citizens are treated. Therefore, in order to improve this situation, with a view to giving Ukraine's Armed Forces the name “Weapon Forces”, the bill was introduced to resolve Ukrainian citizens' issues. This bill affects only one thing that the President has the right to decide on the use of Ukrainian military units outside Ukraine when Ukrainian citizens are threatened by terrorist acts. It's a decision of respect for the country, it's a decision of respect for the president of the country who protects his citizens. I want to give just one example when Russian citizens were released from the Moscow University ship a few months ago. This was done by the Russian military ship Marshall Shaposhnkov. And that was what the whole of Russia was proud of. It was a real gift for Victory Day. One can be proud, and no one has said that the Armed Forces were not used there that they were not released. Everyone was proud of this act. We should be proud of our military.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u130	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u131	We must protect our citizens. This decision is made by the President, who too should be proud of the state if it is to protect its citizens. So I'm asking you to support this bill, even though the committee has considered it and is proposing to reject it. But I don't understand what I did to the Committee on Organized Crime, because it's a matter of national security, a matter of the National Security Council. Therefore, I believe that today for the Ukrainians, bearing in mind Faina, we must protect our citizens and adopt this bill. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Alexander Grigorovich Rybek of the Profile Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposes to extend the mandate of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to carry out tasks by the Armed Forces to halt international terrorist activities outside Ukraine, as well as to the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Centre for the Coordination of the Activities of Subjects engaged in or engaged in related anti-terrorist operations in Ukraine and abroad. [[Excuse me, I'm from the committee.]] Despite the importance and relevance of the legislative settlement of the issue of anti-terrorist activities, the bill contains a number of shortcomings and disagreements. There are no such concepts as “international terrorism”, “terrorist activities outside Ukraine”, “international terrorist activities outside Ukraine” and “anti-terrorist operations outside Ukraine”. The bill proposes that anti-terrorist operations be ordered by the armed forces in the same order as the Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations. However, peacekeeping operations differ significantly from antiterrorist activities. Yes, peacekeeping operations are carried out solely on the basis of decisions made by the UN Security Council to the Charter of the United Nations, the OSCE, other regional organizations that are responsible for the maintenance of international peace, security, as provided for in Chapter 8 of the UN Statute. In addition, a similar procedure under the overall control of the UN Security Council is carried out by multinational forces established under the consent of the UN Security Council in order to prevent inter-State or internal conflicts, to provide humanitarian assistance to populations affected by inter-State or internal conflicts, to eliminate threats to peace, to disrupt peace or to commit aggression, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u134	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u135	The Anti-Terrorism Act defines a single organization, the Ukrainian Security Service, its anti-terrorist centre, which coordinates and conducts this activity only in Ukraine, in other cases, provides information to foreign states on a contractual basis. Therefore, taking into account the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends that the draft law be rejected, they also sent their comments: the National Security and Defence Committee, the Secretary of the President, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Hen Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service, the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Taking into account all these comments, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be rejected in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Who, besides Carmazin, insists on the word? Then sign up. Please, Smitch. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We have to give it to our colleague Kulikov, because he raised this question, because it's a question that really is, and we don't have to hide our heads in the sand like an ostrich that we don't have this problem. Every day we almost feel from the media what it is. One or the other people, one or the other of our citizens are captured or trapped, and the state is helplessly spreading its hands, nothing can be done about it. We just need our services, which according to the Constitution, according to their responsibilities, we need to take the experience or go, not to Ukraine, not to look for terrorists among our citizens, but to go, for example, to a state like Israel, and learn how they work. Or go to a state like France. You remember a year and a half or more of how they dealt with this problem once and for all. Or go to the United States -- and see if they have a mandate from the United Nations or not if it concerns the threat to the lives or activities of their citizens or their economic and other interests. We just need to learn the experience and really appreciate the realities of today. Realisms when they've been conditionally 20 years are one thing. And the realities of today show that this is necessary in this matter. Of course, we refer, or the Scientific Expert Office states that it contradicts the existing Constitution, the existing international treaties, the UN Convention, and so on and so forth. Of course they are. But of course, the State must carry out its functions and those authorized to do so properly, that is the question. I certainly don't think the Hall will support this bill, but this problem needs to be addressed. And that's why I'm addressing Mr. Horoshkowski as the first work of the Supreme Council. If we have this unit, it must be properly performed, or ready to perform these functions. If there is a lack of authority, he should come out with an offer to the Supreme Council, and we will extend those powers to him. But it is proper to protect your interests, including those of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u138	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u139	the life and health of our citizens. So I'm asking this bill, as a topic, not to delay it, not to cut it, but to re-read it, so let us, our law enforcement agencies, understand that this is a matter to be raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u140	Please, Yuri Karmizin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u141	Yuri Karmizin. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I have watched and watched with sadness as all of you have captured Ukrainian ships and we have heard comments, think about the army generals, the head of external intelligence, who has told us about the amounts of the trade with those who have captured. There was no question at all, no question of the day about the capture and punishment of terrorists, no shame to the state, no shame to the generals of the army from outside intelligence, no shame to those who ran counter-terrorism and so on! There are no such centers in Ukraine, let's be clear as yet, to be very sorry. The native was the same professional who is now in charge. That's it. Well, I did study at, you know, the Russian Academy, right, hidden that fact. We're not gonna talk about this right now. Please don't distract me. I would like to say that it was not just political will, because the legal basis for combating piracy, as established by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on Combating Illegal Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation, is. Moreover, even in Somalia, their territorial waters allow for the capture and destruction of criminals. Permission granted, repeat. But Kulikov's colleague passed the right bill. He completely normalizes a lot of questions. He says: “President, you have a Security Council for something, you have a lot of people in pursuit, you have. ” And they are studying experience in Israel. But you know what they're doing? Unmanned aircraft were purchased, although Ukrainian could have been better done. They spent money because they had to drive. It's a separate topic for a separate conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u142	No, no, finish it, all of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u143	I'm done. Ukrainian citizens need to be protected around the globe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u144	Thank you. Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you had the opportunity to talk about who you were learning. All right, have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Special? Then it's the Kulik's line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u145	Thank you very much again, Adam Ivanovich. One thing I want to say is that the main function of the state is to protect its citizens. If it does not protect citizens, such a state is not necessary. And I want to remind you of what happened two years ago when the UN Mission in Kosovo made a decision on the Ukrainian battalion. Because none of the United Nations officials took the liberty of making the decision to withdraw the Ukrainian peacekeeping battalion where there was a military operation, the Ukrainian officer was killed, the boy who could be proud died, and we are proud of him. But UN officials will never make decisions for us to protect our Ukrainian citizens. This is our question, this is my question and this is my question to the state. And this is my President's question in this country. And if we don't vote for it, we don't vote, first, for the Chief of Staff, for the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the question is clear and must be resolved. But believe me, if we decide as it is in the law, any commander of any kind of Armed Forces can, by getting on the wrong foot, send his subjects to any state of the world. So let's be wise and smart about these issues. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Terrorism Act. [[on the conduct of an anti-terror operation outside Ukraine]] Bill No. 4105. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:44:18]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Law on Clearing the Order of Accounting for Services of Heat and Electric Power of Gas and Water is under consideration. Bill number 4258. The bill's author is Royal Natalia Yuriovna. The bill is small. I'm making a proposal to review it under a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:45:01]] For 248 Should we consider that the law has been passed? Yes, please, Natalie Yuriovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill 4258 is necessary because today suppliers of heat and electricity, gas and water have established their rules of play on the market. And they do as they please. Consumers are forced to enter into additional agreements that are actually prepaid. And if such cases were previously more exceptions to the rules and pre-payments were requested on a voluntary basis, today they require two or three months' advance payment. And if the consumer refuses to pay a prepayment to the supplier of electricity, heat and water for two months in advance, the consumer shall be excluded from the network. And since we know that heat grids, power grids, gas and plumbing are more monopolistic today, our entrepreneurs are faced with the fact that either you pay or you don't work. And when there are no working assets, when the lack of disaster credits, lack of money in the economy, no refund of value added tax, no overpayment for thermal power, gas and water services leads to increased cost of products, the laundering of essentials and, in principle, often ends with the closure of the enterprise. On this basis, it is proposed that operators - suppliers of heat, gas and water - should be prohibited to charge consumers in any form. The project does not require additional expenditure from the State budget, and we very much hope that we understand that today, in difficult economic situations, we have our business and support in this way, we would keep enough jobs, we would keep enough businesses working. At the same time, we would not in any way cut our suppliers of heat, gas and electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u148	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u149	They would balance the relationship between normal market relations, competitive. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill, which is truly possible. which will really protect small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u150	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. I can see the faction was very serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u151	Deputies! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, at its meeting on 8 July last year, considered a bill to clarify the order of accounting for services of thermal and electrical energy, gas and water prepared by the Royal. [[Registration number 4258]] The bill proposes to prohibit operators from supplying heat and electricity, gas and water to consumers for any form of overpayment for unserviced services. This is a case of prepayment, which is usually required by gas-supplying organizations and utilities and settlements for the gas not yet supplied to be purchased in Russia. The main scientific and expert office did not support the Natalia Royale project. The Committee also did not support the draft law at its meeting. As such a bill is now in a housing and communal situation, and we are all in crisis, it will create additional problems in the acquisition of gas. Therefore, I ask you to support the Committee's decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u152	Please. Have a seat. The faction supported you. Yes, is there a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u153	Sign up. Yes, please, Smitsch. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I personally support the idea set out in this bill, which we are considering. And here's what's going on. You know that today, heat power suppliers, as often as often, are mostly monopolies that are in the private sector. And of course, the state is not entirely capable of interfering with any other issue, except utilities. But we still have production. And it's not only about what the Royals said, small and medium-sized businesses, it's about big businesses. And all businesses, we're in businesses, we're keeping this service based on prepayment. Is that fair or not? I don't think so. Do they rightly value the price? I don't think so. Take, for example, electricity. The cost of power at the nuclear power station is much, and most likely, tens of times cheaper than it is for our companies. And twice, twice, and 2.5 times the cost of exports outside Ukraine. So please tell me, if power is exported 2.5 times cheaper outside Ukraine than it is to its manufacturer, will it be our production that consumes electricity that is competitive in part of the cost of electricity? Taking into account that our companies are not equipped with a modern approach to energy conservation. They won't be shortened. So they're deliberately monopolies, today they're creating conditions that make it impossible to compete with our products. That's one question. The second question. With regard to gas or heat, electricity. Ukraine gets plus minus 22 billion cubic meters of gas. And of course, this gas, at its own cost, must have a very low price. And of course, this gas had to go with the support of a domestic producer to make the cost. Is this a fair price issue? It doesn't always happen. It doesn't happen in the temporary sector, it doesn't happen in enterprises that have a private nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u155	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u156	Most businesses are already private. So I certainly am the subject of a separate law and subject of a separate consideration. But, of course, if he merely looks at this law, it does not cover all the problems involved. So I'd like to ask you a question, not to put this question aside in terms of rejection of this bill, but how, if possible, if it's not accepted in the first reading, even if it's sent back to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u157	Please, Paul’s Andrew. Bondarenko Volodymira's word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u158	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please hand over Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u159	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The problem in this bill is very important. Let's think about whether it's constitutional to collect a fee from a person who hasn't received a favor yet? For example, tomorrow this man, God forbid, will he die? How does she get an adequate answer for the money she has invested? Not at all. That's not gonna be necessary in the world anymore. So any such type of monopoly screwdrivers, so-called service providers or service providers, are unconstitutional. That's the first one. The other one. Let me give you an example from the life of a particular Kiev. The point is that today’s payments are illegally charged not only from the point of view of overpayment but also from the point of view of the calculation of the service. It is clear that there are no accounting devices in Kiev. Over two thousand of them have been in Kiyevenergo warehouses for several years because it is not convenient to enter. Vodocanal has the same policy. For example, in one house we installed counters, and in the other we had a calculation scheme. So where there were counters, water consumption was one and a half cubes on average or three, and where the calculation scheme was 16 cubes. It's illegal, too. Kiev is the only city in Ukraine where the collection of hot water payments is carried out by illegal means for the calculation of the energy received in gigacalories, not in cubic metres of hot water. And the computational scheme is that the residential-communal institution directly says that the gigacalorie is 22.5 cubic meters of water, and in Kiev alone you've got 18 cubes, so you've taken money for gigacalories. So this law is very much needed, and it needs to be further worked out from the point of view of it, not just the previous contraction. And that's why the government is opposed, and I'm headed by the Ministry of Housing and Regional Development, and it's going to be a bill that's going to be more extensive. If you fail today this one that is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u160	Please, one minute. Because that's the situation, please. It's a ribbed microphone, oatmeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the law is really necessary because today there are monopolies in Ukraine who dictate their policies to all other businesses. Today, Naftogaz pays up to the 7th of the next month for the gas received from Russia. At the same time, they want to raise money in advance from companies that produce final products. No one sells this final product. In fact, it's an additional washout from end-product manufacturers. So we're adding value to monopolies, which are in better conditions than thousands, tens of thousands of enterprises that work on this queen. The way gas companies dictate, the way they twist the hands of manufacturers, that's what we need to know and understand. I think on the first reading, we have to accept this bill and add enough more things to limit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Kovalevska Julia. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u163	Julia Kovalevski, faction of the Party of the Regions. Overpayment for residential services is already foreseen by the provisions of the valid Civil and Economic Codes, as well as by special laws on heating, for which, by the way, the bill does not propose changes. Previous pay is a normal practice for housing providers and consumers, because often for various reasons. For example, a citizen plans a vacation or a vacation, and the consumer wants to pay in advance, as it were, in advance. And for the providers of these services, it's convenient that they continue to receive payment for residential services. There is no debt that they are forced to collect. I think that the execution of this project when it's adopted can have negative economic effects on suppliers. At the same time, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports the idea of preventing harassment and overvalue of services, but this does not apply to a bill that we do not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u164	Question completed. I'm voting on the draft Law on the Regulation of Accounting for Services of Heat and Electricity, Gas and Water. [[Registration number 4258]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:58:30]] For 133 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. There is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of legislation banning gaming in Ukraine. [[Registration number 5349]] The author of the bill is Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:59:08]] For 239. Decision taken. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u165	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Everyone knows that today in Ukraine there is a ban on gaming business as a kind of entrepreneurial activity, but according to the law in force, the procedure for bringing offenders to justice and applying financial sanctions is in such a way that it practically makes it impossible for individuals to be held accountable for violating this law. What does this procedure look like today? The procedure looks like this. The police are conducting a proper inspection. As a result of this verification, the police make up the relevant acts and regulations, then pass them on to the authorities of the State Tax Service, and the authority of the State Tax Service on the basis of these acts is referred to the court. That is, the law is written in such a way that the authorities of the State Tax Service are the mediator between the police and the courts. And in the course of these cases before the court, because it is the law that the authorities of the State tax office, who are assigned to represent the interests of the State in these matters, cannot modify this act or make any amendments to it, nor can they specify their position, since they have neither original documents nor have they carried out any checks. Therefore, the proposed bill proposes to reconcile the situation and to write the law in such a way that all actions on material testing and preparation and representation of interests in court will be carried out. One organ, namely the police. That's perfectly logical, and that's totally appropriate. So today's procedure is going to look like this. The police are going to do a background check, they're going to file an act, and they're going to go to court on the basis of the acts they've drafted, and they're going to go to court to defend the state's interests in combating the phenomenon of a gaming business that's banned by law in Ukraine. The introduction of this bill is supported by the State Tax Administration. It doesn't carry any extra expenses from the State Budget. So I ask him to support me in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u166	Thank you. Have a seat. Please, Natalia Yuriovna. Royal, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We all remember very well how the Supreme Council banned gambling as an activity. And we have taken all possible legislative measures with you to shield our citizens from the dangers of gambling. Unfortunately, however, the issue is not resolved. And we know today that the gambling business from legal, so to speak, in coffee shops has gone completely illegal. And in fact, our bans are all over the place. In Ukraine, both physical and legal persons are operating a gambling business today. This is because the existing sanctions mechanism is ineffective. What is the meaning of this monitoring procedure and the procedure for the adoption of this law when it is understood today that this law does not work, that the game business has been renamed, moved into basements, moved under the roofs of law enforcement agencies and is working today in a shadow segment? And it's impossible to find someone who's responsible today because the police are sneezing at the tax office, the taxpayer is sneezing at the police. As a result, the shadow market is expanding, there is no income for budgets, there is no protection for citizens, and no one is responsible for this. And the law is not fully operational. The bill proposed by People's MP Vlasenko, number 5349, therefore provides for a simple and logical procedure: the police carry out checks on natural and legal persons; if the law prohibiting gambling is violated, an act is drawn up; the police file an action before the court and annex the act as evidence. And we'll be perfectly aware with you that illegal gambling is the responsibility of the police for failing to comply with the law banning gambling. And if our illegal gambling facilities then exist, you and I will know very well who is covering this area of illegal activity. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u168	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u169	I think that today's audience is interested in putting an end to the fight against illegal gambling. As we were able to consolidate our efforts at that time, and all the factions of Parliament supported the initiative of the people's deputies from both the Yulia Timoshenko bloc and the Party of the Regions, and the Act banning gambling was adopted. I think we can take it on first reading today and consider it. Adopt and consider, on a reduced basis, the preparation for the second reading of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u170	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u171	Sign up. Yes, please, Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u172	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, last year, thanks to the efforts of all factions of the law. The phenomenon called, so-called, coffee shops, game business -- supposedly legal, yes, was banned. And, indeed, today this phenomenon is not defeated. And it couldn't have been defeated in one year, because it had become a national, so to speak, character. Because you remember that more than 26,000 points in Ukraine were involved in gambling. It seems that almost the whole country was involved in the game business. And my bill, then which the Supreme Council supported, I was very grateful, it basically works, but it doesn't work on full power. And why? Because the law enforcement agencies are throwing each other into each other's hands, because it's the authority of one person or another. The tax authority, the police, the police, the tax office, and the D.A. is supposed to be looking into it. And in fact, it happens in cities often like this, for example, the "Premier Palace" casino. I'll give you an example, Dina Losev, Judge of the Dniprožinj District Court of Kharkiv, takes the decision to refer the citizen of X to Kharkiv. I'm sorry I didn't tell you to. The Act on the Prohibition of the Game Business in the "Prime Palace" violates its constitutional rights. And the judge takes it in one-sided order to let this casino work. And this casino works today legally until 2012. I'm asking and I'm sending a request to the D.A.'s office. The D.A.'s office tells me that there's going to be a study of this issue, and there's going to be an additional message. And when will it be prepared, if two months pass and there is no answer? And so many others. The casino from the real ones has gone into virtual ones, and that's what's appropriate in every city, and the law enforcement authorities know. But in the law that we passed you, it's clear that virtual is also a casino, and it's forbidden to play. So what's going on? What's happening is that the law enforcement authorities are up until recently, and I think there's going to be an order in the city of Kiev, and I'm already in the city of Kiev, and I've been reported by the IMF.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u173	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u174	I think there's been a complex test of the ban on the game business, and I think Kiev will be closed. This is purely a matter of law enforcement, police and tax inspection. Why Tax? And why does Vlasenko say that the tax should be withdrawn? Because the tax examines the type of tax evasion activity and so forth. And I'm going to suggest that they leave this norm, and let them both answer, not switch friends to friends. This must be prohibited and the law must be enforced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u175	Please, Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u176	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Dear friends, we are sitting in this room on different sides of a barricade that separates us from each other because, politically speaking, or in other positions, we consider ourselves different. But tell me, what difference does it make to the woman who lost her son, who lost everything he could, and then, for example, hanged himself in one of the RVDs, as it was recently? By the way, two deaths in the district police departments after the murder of a young man in the Shevchenkow district took place in Kupyansk and in the Shrine district of Kyiv. Unfortunately, we did not respond as a parliament to these facts. Before, I know how something happened, there was more screaming than there was to be. And unfortunately, we're going through it so quietly. Why do young people under the age of 20 die? Some of these deaths are related to the casino’s loss. It was as if we were then covered by the bill, which was passed here almost. or more of a constitutional majority, and we quietly observe all of us today together as so - called computer clubs, playgrounds, various institutions that have changed just the sign and have remained essentially the same. It breaks people's fates, it loses everything that's possible, and first of all, it loses the soul of those people. Because a person who is already in play will rarely return to normal life because it is one of the types of incorrigible habits that never go away, I'm afraid. But if this activity is banned, it will be difficult at least. So what I would like today is that, even though this bill is submitted by representatives of a political power, we would like to approve for the benefit of the Ukrainian society, for the benefit of young people who today could be saved for the future, or could be destroyed in the course of this total plague that covered the whole country, the gaming business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u177	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, all those who have spoken on this matter! I'd particularly like to address Mrs. Natalie Royal. You said we'd set the point. What can I do to set a point? That you give the police the right to carry out checks, to file an act, but to take the right to file a tax action against the courts concerning the application of sanctions related to the organization’s ban, you take the tax authority to apply for sanctions and so forth. Is that good? Is the State keeping the law enforcement authorities to do something and the other not? Obviously, both are to be fought. So not to contrast them, but to add to each other. So the law makes sense only in this part -- the added functions of the militia. But you don't have to take functions in tax. I'm against it here. So I deliberately named my last name so that they could have the right to a replica. But I'd like us not to tell people that we're going to put this end to a little point in the fight against gambling. No, let us not deceive ourselves or the people, for you will set up many things. Because now gambling has gone online, now they're crammed under Internet clubs, under Internet cafes, and there's kids sitting there today, and it's a disaster for Ukraine today! And that's what we need to understand, and then we need to go in there and regulate more Internet activity. Therefore, this law can only be adopted in the first reading — the first. Second, the tax administration does not take these liabilities away. And the third. We still have law enforcement agencies, there's the Security Service, so we don't have to keep an eye on TV correspondents for three men, so that they don't fake the numbers and hide from it. Oh, for fuck's
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u179	Thank you. Maybe you can talk to Yuri Anatolyovich outside. Please, Queen, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! My respectable colleague! I want to make it clear that this bill does not deprive the tax administration of any authority, and no one in this bill touches on the ability of the tax administration to perform its functions. What's going on today? I want to explain again in a few words. The police are preparing an act, but the police can't go to court on their own, and they're handing it over to the tax office. So today, a delinquent who works in a shadow game business has two stages: once he asks a policeman not to properly write an act, the second time he makes a tax agreement that the act will not be brought to trial. It is not possible to find extremes in this situation. We propose that tax powers remain in the tax system and that the police be given the authority to take responsibility for the lawlessness that is being done today in the legal, illegal market in the gambling business and thereafter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u181	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u182	And then we're going to point out that there's an understandable responsible body, a militia. And we must force this law to be enforced by the authorities and the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, by enacting laws and by failing to comply with laws, there is no point in fighting illegal gambling. Because the institution of irresponsibility, not the institution of law enforcement, is working today. I propose to support this bill and to prepare it for second reading, on short notice. And I fully support my colleague to give other law enforcement authorities the authority and responsibility to control the illegal market in gaming establishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u183	Yeah, we're done here, we'll figure it out. I am betting on the adoption vote as a basis in the first reading of Bill 5349 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of legislation banning gaming in Ukraine. [[13:14:39]] For-129 Dear colleagues, and in the course of the discussion, I'm really looking at the conclusions of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which is offering to reject it. But I think, given the urgency of the problem, and the need to resolve this issue, let's send it back to re-reading. Please support me, for the first time again. [[13:15:20]] For 340. 340 votes. Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u184	You can, if you want the committee, because once again, the committee is the first. The committee should make a new edition, if they submit in the night, we can do it tomorrow. But I have doubts that they will make a different choice than there is. All of it. To read again. Let's get ready. You'll be ready, we'll look into it. No questions asked. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[on the implementation of monthly State social assistance]] Registration number 2716, author of the Ukolov bill. The committee is Lukyanova. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:16:30.]] For 267 Decision taken. Please, Victor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u185	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This is a pre - revolutionary bill that corrects the shortcomings of the Law on State Aid for Families with Children. And I think he's interested in both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Orphans, as well as those who are deprived of parental care. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care, the relevant care body is obliged to bring a child into the family of Ukrainian citizens, provided that the child has lost parental care. To adopt, care or care for, or in a foster home or a family home. According to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, since 2006, such children have been paid monthly cash assistance in the amount of two untaxed minimums per month. However, these payments are not included in the law of Ukraine. And because of this situation each year, at the beginning of the year, the Cabinet of Ministers is forced to allocate funds for this assistance by a separate decision. As a result, for the first two months, children generally do not receive assistance that is delayed through bureaucratic decision - making and cost - making. This law amends the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children, where from now on payments of state social assistance will be made to children in family-type children's homes, foster families at two subsistence minimums. Thus, it will be no longer necessary to make a decision each year at the beginning of the year. So we correct the shortcomings of the law, we simplify the passing of funds, we eliminate the delays in payment of aid at the beginning of the year. The science-expert administration has reached a positive conclusion on the bill. As far as I know, the profile committee supported it the same way. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u186	Yes, thank you. Please, I can't see from the committee, no. Lukyanov was determined. Yes, please sign up for the discussion. Please, Karmazin. Bondarenko, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the National MP Ukolov for taking the initiative, because this law regulates that. I'm afraid it's settled at the level of the sub-legislative acts so far. But I would like to see that in the transcripts for the preparation of the second reading, the things that Timothy and Mackeychuk have absolutely rightly addressed are those of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, who are absolutely right to say that we should attach to this law the rules of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, where it is written that full state care is provided for orphans and children deprived of care, as well as persons of their number. And it's predicted that these kids get an extra 50 percent scholarship, which is more than the one paid for in the right wagon, and, in addition, 100 percent if they get one. Made money in practice, not like other kids. And fill in the words “other payments”. I absolutely agree with Timothy, Maciechuk and Bordenyuk of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, and I think that the correct introduction of section 5b of "Help for Admissional Children and Children Educated" of article 18 with badge 4, and they are beautifully written with badge 5 and badge 6, should be accepted in the first reading. And here we can use, absolutely this is a non-political no-legislative, and a non-politicized bill, we can use a shorter term. It would be perfectly normal for this bill to be prepared to be considered by summer vacations and already in the fall for other rules of the game. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u188	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u189	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. I deliberately signed up to discuss this law, although I pressed the “against” button there. This does not mean that I am against, just you know, regulatory requirements such that one “against” is recorded, one “against”. So I wanted to point out that the failure of the individual laws that are in this room today shows the position of a double standard. In particular, you remember when Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, a candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents, told us how many families would be provided with cars, all of them. All these projects have already failed, they are no longer budgeted this year and are not budgeted next year, because if these bills were approved today or before here, they would have come in and could have been funded in the coming periods. That's not gonna happen, that's pretty clear. Now with regard to this law. It will also be broken because there is a team that does not support any law that is passed by the opposition. What's this about? In my own time, I contributed to the creation of the first family - type children’s home in Kiev. It is the Gedji Natalia family, Gedja Sergia, in which ten children, including the disabled, are all mostly orphans. And there are problems in funding some of the measures envisaged in government programs. Our annual adoption here of drafts or regulations leads to delays or even general funding when it is said to be in a pig’s voice when no one needs it anymore. Such families really need car support. Because 10 children, imagine going somewhere together or going away, that's something to be predicted. I want to tell you that other forms of raising children in a family, orphans, provide for stable, normal laws for many years. So the initiative that's proposed is productive, it needs to be supported, and you don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u190	One minute, Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u191	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. To support the fact that it really significantly improves the social condition of orphans. And also given that every year we have an increase in the number of orphans, especially social orphans, which is with a living father, with a living mother who is not known where they are, but when we go, we have to go, and it's even better to say that it's very good luck when they get to a family-type children's home, or there's a foster family. We also come from the fact that it's really a very big feat in our difficult time, when we're going through this social crisis, the political crises, the economic crises, there are families that dedicate themselves and give their heart to orphans. Whether it's social or just orphans. And that's why we're proposing to everyone on the first reading to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u192	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, let's listen to the thoughts that have been heard during the discussion and determine the fate of the bill number 2716 -- the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. [[on the implementation of monthly State social assistance]] Please vote. [[13:25:27]] For 169 The decision is not supported. Maybe for the first read again? No such suggestions? You won't? I won't. Then the bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee did not offer such an offer! The committee didn't propose. Olga Borisovna, as I recall, belongs to another committee, and you will have the opportunity to speak now. Bill number 3300: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on strengthening the protection of the rights of children in adoption]] The drafters are Yatzenko and Bodnar Olga Borisovna. I'm proposing a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:26:35]] For 262 Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u193	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Olga Bodnar, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Paternal Party”. Today, according to the Ukrainian Family Code, an adoptive parent may be a person who is not less than 15 years of age and may not be more than 45 years old. This age limit of 45 years, without taking into account the individual characteristics of each adoption, leads to parents, even close relatives: grandparents, grandparents, aunts, uncles -- not being able to adopt a child. Children who have younger brothers or sisters fall out of adoption. If a child, for example, is younger than 45 years old, these children will no longer be adopted. Or this restriction does not work for the child even when a mate wants to adopt his or her mate. The bill proposed to your mind provides for the legislative strengthening of cases where restrictions on the age difference between an adoptive adopter and a adoptive child will not apply when the adopter is a parent of a child or a person whose family is raised; if several children, brothers or sisters are adopted; if the child is adopted by one of the marriage mates to another. In addition, the bill provides for a solution to an equally important problem when brothers and sisters break up during their adoption. In particular, it is suggested that the separation of brothers and sisters during adoption may be possible only in cases where one of them has physical or mental disabilities, such as the need for permanent hospital treatment and residence in appropriate health care facilities, boarding schools. Or when one of the undernourished children who had only a common mother or a common father reached the age of 10 and was able to give written consent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u194	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u195	for adoption by various persons. Another problem that the bill proposes is to prohibit adoption of children by families where one of the spouses cannot have. cannot be adoptive, according to the Family Code, that is, families in which a man or woman is declared unfit, or marriage is of the same sex, even when such persons are not in a registered marriage. The adoption of the bill will strengthen the protection of the rights of children to adopt. And I want to point out that the Chief Apparatus Science Administration recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of some observations. The European Integration Committee also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. This bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u196	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't? I then vote on the adoption of Bill 3,300, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code (for strengthening the protection of the rights of children in adoption). Please vote. [[13:30:21]] For-152. Not supported, bill rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u197	Once again, I would not have asked MPs to be initiators, but we, aside from the time that profile committees entrusted with reporting and presenting the interests of the bills, would have appeared in the workplace, because the last two bills were set out in the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, unfortunately we do not. Who's in charge of bringing this bill back for re-reading, please vote. [[13:31:28]] For 139 Bill rejected. The factions? Please use fractions: Region Party 3, Timoshenko Yulia Block, 91, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense, 21, Communists 24. A draft Regulation on approval of the Concept of Judicial Reform in Ukraine is under consideration. There is a proposal to consider this draft Order by a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've already adopted the Law on Sudokustry, and you've only adopted it with a concept. [[13:32:06]] For the 17th. Yes, please, the head of the Temporary Special Commission, Schustik Olena Juryivna, Bill 6391, is the draft Decision approving the concept of judicial and legal reform in Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u198	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Your Honor's Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Broadcasters and Audiences! First of all, I want to thank you for the fact that, in Parliament today, it was smart enough not to vote on the court reform for the reduced procedure. In doing so, you would confirm that the fate of judicial reform has already been decided. True judicial reform remains extremely relevant to our nation. In recent years, reforms have been fragmented in the narrow circle of politics. And the constant unsuspecting changes in legislation have led to a more complex process of protection, judicial burden, and the opposite of judicial practice. The new bill on the judiciary and the status of judges, which contradicts the speed of lightning through the Council, only deepens these crisis phenomena, unfortunately. Its low standards run counter to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court's decision, the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and finally, PARE. If he becomes a law, he will open the way for the liberation and political volunteerism, the complete destruction of an independent court. Because the project grants the Higher Council of Justice to non-primary powers, and makes it impossible to apply the same law by the courts, gives birth to separate from each other, locked up in appropriate specialized courts of law. Instead, all civilised states in legislation move from general to specific. First, they define the structure, lay a solid foundation, and then build the superstructure out of tighter regulations. That is the principle of reforming the real judiciary and proposing the concept. It sets out the stages of judicial reform, the list and the order for adoption of legislative acts that need to be adopted: from changes to the Constitution to procedural legislation. In general, the concept of judicial and judicial reform is called upon to guarantee the right of a person to a fair hearing of the dispute during a reasonable period by an independent and impartial court; to ensure the formation of a highly professional judicial body; to improve the principles of the formation and activities of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine by excluding the influence of politicians on its activities; to grant the Supreme Court of Ukraine a legislative initiative and to define its status as a court of inquiry; to establish an order for the appointment of judges to administrative positions in the courts of general jurisdiction other than the Supreme Court of Ukraine; and to release them from these posts by judicial authorities of judicial self-government; to strengthen the guarantee of the allocation of funds to the needs of courts at a level that is not lower than the actual needs; to introduce the Institute of National Judges and Peace Judges for the consideration of complex civil disputes. The reformed system, first and foremost, should ensure that citizens have unimpeded access to justice and fair and swift justice. In fact, the same proposal is supported by the Venice Commission in its conclusions and recent comments on the new Judicial Act, stressing that in an overly complex and wise judicial system there is a risk of delaying conduct. There are too many installations in Ukraine. There are usually no more than three of them, according to Thomas Markert, Vice President of the Venice Commission. So our concept is to put in place a simple and clear trilinear system of courts: local courts as courts of first instance, appeal general courts, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine as a court of appeal. The document also provides for the harmonization and simplification of court procedures by introducing a single procedural order and dealing with and shortening civil and administrative cases. And when things are dealt with essentially in the first instance, in the appeal and the cassation, there will be no ineffectual walking around the circle. The concept also proposes to improve the selection procedure for judges, and to become a judge, candidates who have passed a qualified examination have to undergo open competitive selection. It is also appropriate to raise the candidate's age rating for the appointment of judges from 25 to 30 years of age and to increase the requirements for apprenticeship from 3 to 5 years of legal experience. It is essential to prevent interference with the execution of justice by the judge of any subject, including officials of other branches of government. But in addition to providing guarantees of independence to judges, the concept strengthens the mechanism of irreversibility of judges who have violated the law. The grounds for bringing judges to justice and the discharge of these positions should be exhaustive and should not allow for an extended or double interpretation, as is now the case. The concept emphasizes the need to create an effective system of free assistance for those who cannot protect themselves, and the right to such assistance must be guaranteed and paid by the State to vulnerable groups not only in criminal but also in civil and administrative jurisdictions. In addition, it is necessary to reform the system of pretrial investigation, to adopt new laws on the prosecution, on the judiciary and the notary, on the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the Code of Administrative Offences, on the harmonization of economic and civil procedure and on the implementation of mediation procedures in different categories of cases, on the improvement of the system of enforcement of judicial decisions, on the provision of rapid and inescapable enforcement. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution, it is Parliament’s responsibility to determine the principles of internal and external politics and thus the concept of judicial reform. And the absence of such a comprehensive document will allow us not to carry out real reform, by the way, but simply to manipulate judicial legislation as anyone would like. And when the law doesn't work, it's an official way of doing it. And judicial reform applies today, I think, to everyone. So, honourable colleagues, if there's any will, please support this concept. I would like to point out that under it are the signatures of members of the Temporary Special Commission from the "Block of Lithuania" and the Communist Party of Ukraine, as well as the "Block of Yulia Timoshenko" and "Our Ukraine". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u199	Thank you. Is there a question? Sign up. Yes, please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u200	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Olena Jurievno, in your concept, you're talking about what should grow the role of the High Council of Justice, and it's growing, we see. At the same time, take away the influence of politicians on the activities of this important body. In reality, we see the Higher Council of Justice as a spirit of political corporateism and a vivid expression of nepotism. And now, in practice, do you agree with the idea that beyond such a concept, a reasonable concept, the Higher Council of Justice today becomes a political body of dissension with other judges? Because we know that there are many manifestations where judges are freed not by their professionalism, not by their professionalism, but by their practical evidence of a political dispute with those judges who are not fit for this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u201	Mr. Volodymyr, thank you for your question. It's pretty professional, it's relevant, and it actually has the answer to it. In fact, the recent legislative initiatives of the Party of the Regions have turned the Higher Council of Justice into an inquisitorial body. I'm afraid until the end of Janukovich's office in power, we're just not going to have what no independent judge, a judge who won't be afraid to make illegal decisions. Because today, indeed, the Higher Council of Justice, contrary to the Constitution, has been given such powers and is thus formed, where two-thirds are represented by the members of the Party of the Regions and, by the way, by the representatives of the Attorney General's Office and the BPO, by the repressive authorities that the judges are now truly completely dependent. They're scared. And letting them go is a matter of two or three weeks. And for any decision that some political power might not like. That's why the concept sets out the principle, first, and the reduction of authority in the plan of repression. All the reasons are clearly stated to attract responsibility and form.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u202	Bondarenko Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u203	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Dear Mrs. Oleno, it's not a secret that the judicial corps is formed by a rather strange staff assignment. Sometimes they're people who don't have any qualifications, even in the legal field, not just in court. I'd like to ask you a question like that. And how does it predict, in connection with the production of this concept, that the judicial corps prepare it to be at least a little bit more qualified than individual lawyers, professional or individual co-founders, or how hard it is to divide them today, which are being judged continuously, to know the basis of the case and the basis for the adoption of future decisions better than the judge himself? How? Or is it a special school or a special training or training program? How does this work out conceptually in this document?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u204	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr! In fact, a special branch and special courses are included in the document. Similarly, the age price for the right to take office of a judge is increasing. Because maybe 25 years is not even a person's consciousness that can solve pretty serious disputes. In addition, there is a rise in the rate, and the time to go through the internships is increasing. In general, the required training increases from 3 to 5 years. The same is true of a number of professions that give a previous opportunity to go through this internship. In order to then pass a rather serious exam and it will no longer be formal, as it is now done, and only after this serious exam will an open competition already be held among two or three applicants for one vacancy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u205	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u206	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Helen Yuriovna, I share in most positions the design of the concept, but there are positions that I don't agree with. Well, for example, now the authors of the sad law, the law of one night, I call it, the law of one night, are referring to the Law on the Status of Judges in Yanukovic's paper, they have done terrible things, they have removed the institution of the jury, thus changing part of the fourth part of article 124 of the valid Constitution, and you are proposing the same thing to do, but to make changes to the Constitution. So you're actually doing the same thing. I am against this because the law states that the people are directly involved in the execution of justice through national jury and jury. And I am also opposed to destroying military courts, a whole system that will cost the people very dearly. What you see about first and second especially in military courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u207	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. As far as one night's law is concerned, it's actually a very scary law that will destroy the entire justice system in our country. And I think that these laws and with that basis should not really be adopted by any parliament in any country. That's why Parliament has a coherent, scientifically based and phased concept for its consideration. It's about the jury. It's really a question of debate, which is why we're discussing a project today, not a document that's ready. Although this institution is not entirely relevant, for example, for Ukrainian society, more are the peace judges who have existed in Ukraine since 1864 and have considered these disputes. And in Ukraine the same thing, but according to the statutes, of course, the judges adopted by the royal Russia. As far as military courts are concerned, I think we should move away from the military courts gradually. Not the whole world has a list of countries known to all, it's very narrow. But we have to solve this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u208	Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u209	Dear Mrs. Olena! The concept includes the granting of a mandate to the relevant parliamentary committees, the Cabinet of Ministers, to develop amendments to Ukraine's legislation on the judiciary, the status of judges, and the Supreme Council of Justice. Does it need to agree on these changes and conclusions of the Venice Commission in the same way as the bill that was adopted in the first reading on the judiciary?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u210	Andrew, thank you so much for asking that question. The whole range of issues relating to judicial reform, including the list that they named, needs to be concluded by the Venice Commission. Unfortunately, not the President for today, nor the commanding team, I understand, is either going to take advantage of the conclusions of this committee, and is also violating its promise to the President today to direct a bill that has been passed so quickly, a draft one night, to the conclusion of the Venice Commission. But I think that's the right they have to at least 150 deputies sitting in a part of the room. And I think we still need to take this step in any way. The entire list of normative acts that you have named is equally desirable for the Venice Commission to come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u211	Bodnar Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u212	Dear Helen Yuriovna, to my firm conviction, judicial reform is one of the most important reforms that we should start from the beginning of our independence. I see that this process is so slow, and in these days of our independence, so many teams have been addressing it, and all of these attempts have ended with some kind of scandal, some kind of subterranean manipulation. Here's a question for you as an expert. Why do you think this judicial reform cannot end in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u213	Thank you very much, Olga Borisovna. Indeed, when you hear the word “court reform, ” you want to say forever. But every time, you're right, these attempts to reform things end with the only desire to conquer and make this reform for themselves, to make it so that the judges and the courts can kneel and serve a political clan. And the purpose of this concept would be to unite this hall in an effort to reform people to protect their real rights and interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u214	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Yes, please, Carmazine. Prepare Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u215	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! Of course, today we are looking at a global document – a document of the Concept of Judicial Reform, and this document was supposed to precede the adoption of the Court of Justice Act, which we have done, as always, on the contrary. We passed the law in the first reading, and now we're considering the concept. And we had to approve the concept, discuss the direction of the movement here, and then adopt the law. That’s why I get a phone call from the Russian Federation today and say: “What do you have there? You've done everything the other way around." I say: “Well, to the great regret, yes!” Unfortunately, they wanted to inform the boss that everything was fine. Well, thank God there's a lot of information coming to the President. Thank God! And the president said we should send a bill, not rush and send it to the Venice Commission. Maybe it'll get people a little cold. I don't know how his employees are going to be there, if they're going to let the President do his will anywhere, you know, I don't know, another question. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the current concept is definitely positive, it needs to be voted on, although I'm going to take a firm stand at the level of the adoption of specific laws against the fact that, in my opinion, the representation of the people narrows down, the participation of the people directly in the exercise of justice. And this attack is based on a valid article in the current Constitution. I've just mentioned it. Part four of article 124 provides for the jury. The Constitution was adopted in 1996. 14 years old. We haven't done half a step in this direction in 14 years. And now we're saying that we're going to define the concept of making changes here. And just clean it up and replace it with a system of peace judges. It's not the same substitute, it's not the same. And that's why when this pressure on judges when they make decisions, when judges are forced to, because it's a matter of property that belongs to a high-ranking security officer, to look at it in two nights, it's an unprecedented case in the state. And unprecedented incidents occur in the state. And you and I can't write down here, in the concept, and how else to predict when the Constitution forbids more than 65 years of office today. And you're holding Demchenko Sergey Fedorovich in office for two and a half years. Corruption, purely corruption! But this entire political faction. That's why I'm in favour of adopting a concept and against the corruption that needs to be eradicated from Parliament in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u216	Please, Olga Bodnar, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u217	Olga Bodnar, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Paternal Party”. Dear colleagues, you know, the really serious issue is judicial reform. In fact, it must be the beginning of all democratic changes, because this judicial reform is more necessary than ever for our state. For years, people have been discouraged in various courts. The word “judgment” for people is, you know, like a scarecrow. They're already scared, actually. The word is, if you seek protection from a court of law, you have some sort of panicky fear. To my profound conviction, in general, instead of this night butterfly, which Mr. Carmazin called the law of one night, and I would say a “nocturnal butterfly”, I would say that this concept had to be approved first, and then on the basis of a stronger concept, to accept any changes to the system. So I think to get out of these court-martials that Ukraine is now in, and in those, let's say, mistrust among our citizens, I think, first of all, this concept can help. So Yulia Tymoshenko Block will support this concept with both hands, and I hope that there will be no resistance in the room to bring court reform to a clean field of play in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u218	Thank you. The next discussion is over. You know, the court system, the judicial system, the reforms we've talked about, we've talked about. There are questions you're more interested in than there are MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know how to do that. Vladimir Dmitrovich, come on. Do you want to come out?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u219	No, it's not. Vladimir, there are moments. If you want, I'll give it to you. Oh, no? Okay. We haven't talked before, really, it's a problem. Sadly, however, all those who say that they have wrongly accepted that they should leave what is still, sadly, the present-day judicial system does not give us any reason to defend them. For you will not find any man who can say, Keep judging as they are judged. I am voting on the draft Ordinance on Approval of the Concept of Judicial Reform in Ukraine. [[Registration number 6391]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:55:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. Considered Declined By factions, please: The region's party is zero, the Yulia Timoshenko Block is 114, our Ukraine is 31, and the rest is unvoted. Dear colleagues, we are now moving to the chapter “To be included in the agenda of the session”. I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes, and we're going to finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u220	Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] But here we have one point, here we have one point, which is that there's a draft order for the discharge of Mogilov from the office of Minister of Interior according to the Rules, if I'm not mistaken, article 20 says that personnel issues are not included in the draft agenda. And it's being considered without being included. So please proceed to the draft order on the release of Mohilov from the post of Minister of Interior, the Tarasyuk project. [[Registration number 6421]] Please proceed with the reduced procedure. Who's in favour of addressing this issue under a reduced procedure, please vote. Vote. [[13:56:38]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u221	Thank you. Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, your opinion is presented by a draft decree that was introduced by me and Deputys Kowal, Crnvolko and Jamilov on the release from office of Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mogilov from the post of Minister of the Interior. The motive for initiating the issue of the liberation of Mohilov from his position as minister of the interior was his cynical public statements in the media, as well as the unacceptable politics of the democratic state of the interior minister. This policy is aimed at gradually transforming the Ministry into a repressive machine that serves the interests of power, not a nation whose main task is to deal with political opponents. The minister’s very conduct is a sign of the undemocratic nature of the coalition and of the current power. Indignant are the statements made by the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the comparison of the criminal trials of Viktor Yanukovitch and the political repression against the prisoner of conscience, Hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola, as well as the justification for the crimes of the Stalin regime, such as the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people in the 1940s. By the way, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe issued a statement on 28 April this year by a number of members of the Parliamentary Assembly. This statement condemns the statements made by the current minister of the interior. Mogilov’s comments on the need to evict opposition to rallying in the city of Kiev clearly show that there is an unpretentious desire to build an authoritarian model in Ukraine based on a pattern of non-democratic countries bordering Ukraine, such as Russia and Belarus. It's in this context.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u222	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u223	In recent times, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been applying the new technology of the opposition and journalists’ rallying environment and has brought loyal ones to the rallying regions. Suffice it to say about the disgraceful actual killings of young people in the Shevchenk district and others. And all of this creates an attempt to cover up criminals in pursuit. I want to say that all of this is evidence of the Minister of Internal Affairs' attitude towards the principles of the rule of law democracy and civil society. In a democratic, legal state, such a person cannot assume the position of minister of the interior. I call on all Ukrainian national MPs, who have no concern for the Ukrainian State's fate, its democratic development, to support the stated draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u224	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to speak? Sign up. Two "for", two "against". Please, Karmazin. Microphone. A black woman's got a word for it. Please, Alexander Blackwolf. Poodles ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u225	Dear friends, it is obvious that this decision will not be adopted. This already shows the vote in this room. And it's because she's standing there on Wednesday and she's offered by the opposition that she won't be. Still, we could not keep our mouth shut when the events were taking place, such as Boris Ivanovich’s fine example in his account. I want to pay attention to just a few facts. What the minister of the interior said about the Hero of Ukraine, a monument in the European square in the center of the capital, is that he simply does not know what a criminal is, but what a fighter for freedom of Ukraine is. Because Viacheslav Cnerwell was an austere. suffering for the freedom of Ukraine, and what articles were attributed to him by the active authorities, at that time, it is condemned by all the world. And it stands at one level with Václav Havel, Lech Valensa, Andrey Sahara and many others, Nelson Mandela, and the father of other heroes who entered the gold fund of mankind. Therefore, only these words would lead to the Minister of Internal Affairs to apologize and say that he himself resigns. In addition to these words, there were many other words, including the Crimean Tatars, but there were actions that restricted the free will of the people and during known positions, when we held demonstrations against the Kharkiv treaties, and when small groups of flight attendants wanted to express their views on the functioning of the House of Ukraine and the Ukrainian House. The way they've been dealt with, these are the methods and measures that have been taken to do so, they say that the methods chosen by the Minister of the Interior don't match what we call modern Ukraine, which wants to integrate into European society. Therefore, I ask you very much to support this decision and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u226	Pudov, please, microphone, out of place. Alexandrovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u227	I ask you to give the floor to the People's Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u228	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u229	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is a huge empire in the middle of a state where there are both farm units and various others, and its activities affect the state of social morality, human rights and so on. I am surprised that the new minister cancelled or reduced the special office of monitoring for human rights in Ukraine, which existed in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The question is: Why did I shorten the fact that we have human rights everywhere? I watched in Kharkiv the police stand still and watch as some armed men fell from a tree or directly with trees rolled people there. Were these people respected, or were they not? I don't know. For example, I wonder why today there is no active analysis of the situation that has led to the death of three young people in the last two weeks. Today on the Internet, read, a young man died in Kupyansk, while a young man was hanged in the Svetoszynska Police Department in Kiev yesterday, a young man was killed by a young man in the Shevchenkov Police Department. And who's going to analyze that? This is your respect for human rights. And it's being destroyed in the department of surveillance. In my opinion, it's wrong. I remember how a specially provoked action was in the Ukraine press combination, where some raiders seemed to have begun, militia units came in, stopped these crimes, and then Yuri Lucenka was released from the Ukrainian government system before the elections to fake the elections. In the same way, he was called off by special action by President Yushchenk of Ukraine at the request of the Crimea Party of Regions, Mr. Moskal. So that's the effect on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u230	Thank you. Alexandrovska. Behind her, Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u231	Alexandrovsky, a party of communists. Please give the floor to Deputy Behiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u232	Please, Valery Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, this is what happened to us in society, that everyone, starting with the President, and ending with ordinary citizens, is in two areas -- in the legal field and in the gas field. I want to say that today I am representing the Committee on Legislative Security, which considered two regulations a week ago both Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk and Jamilova, on the evaluation of the actions of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. I want to tell you whether you're informed that there's anything the minister's been accused of at all. Three questions. The first is a comparison of the trials of Chernobyl and the guarantor of our Constitution, once. The second is the question of police action in 2007 on Mount I-Petry. And the third question is the actions of the police, well-known events in the walls of the Supreme Council on April 27th of this year, the day of the ratification of the Kharkiv treaties, and, of course, the provision of public order and security by militia personnel here, under the walls of the Supreme Council. Thus, in considering these issues, a professional committee did not find it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council that the matter be considered as a matter of insufficient grounds for serious accusations by the Minister of Internal Affairs. I would like to warn us in general that the constant flooding of the militia system, the constant accusations, the constant, as it were, the making of decisions even or the voting statements that have been killed, shot down, and that does not add authority to not only the militia, but also to us, honourable colleagues. Until the relevant authorities, the prosecutor, the court, are in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u234	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u235	The right decision, always the most basic principle of jurisprudence, is the principle of innocence. True, there is another thing — the irreparability of punishment. So let us not rush to conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u236	Thank you. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u237	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I fully support the position or statements made by the previous speaker on the grounds that the government has not yet been able to start working, as has already been the case with the application for resignation of a minister. The minister has not done anything yet that according to the order of the country, which has been affected by negative trends in the rights of our citizens, claims have already been made to remove the minister. And why take it off? Because somewhere in Crimea, they used to ask for order, more or less a normal order in terms of what the vachanal is doing. Which one of you wasn't in Crimea? If anyone hasn't been, go away, please. And what happens in Crimea, what happens in land issues, what happens in other matters related to ownership and so on? The constant excitement, the raiding, and so on. And, of course, the then head of Crimea, the head of the Ministry of Justice in Crimea, certainly took part in order and did the right thing. The state cannot delay or look at the phenomena that are causing vacchanalism in Ukraine. That's the first question. The second question. I don't think there's any reason to look at this today at all. But for some reason the opposition did not support us when there was a question of the previous minister, remember, Lucenko. Then, indeed, there were grounds; then, indeed, there were two commissions of inquiry; then, indeed, there were facts that had been taught, but then the governing coalition did not support something. Among other things, the author of the bill did not support something when it came to the question of Lucenka’s release, although Ukraine suffered considerable moral and other losses in terms of representative power when events took place in Germany. So I don't think this issue should be considered. Of course, the opposition has the right, but also to ask the question in such a way that it has no right, for any reason, to speak to the Minister of Internal Affairs, I do not agree with this question. And as for the question of what violates Mr Bondarenko. Of course, in the police, you know there are always cases, including people dying, including hanging, and so on and so forth. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u238	Finish up. It's already on a different subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u239	There is no way to conclude that someone has been hanged or someone has died. The next commission is, there's a proper check in law enforcement, there's a criminal case in the prosecutor's office. There will be conclusions if they do not satisfy society or the public or you as national deputies, please, there is a reason for creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. This was spoken by the Committee on Law Enforcement, although the main committee here is the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on State Building. I report that the committee also did not support this proposal by an absolute majority. And in fact, my fellow respects, we are talking a lot to you right now about the pressures of freedom of speech that don't allow to be expressed either, and so on and so forth. The prime concern of the minister is that he has no right to express himself. He's a Ukrainian citizen, he has the right to express his opinion on any issue. And for that, to free a person, that's persecution for political reasons. I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on the release of Mogilov from office of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6421]] [[14:11:45]] For-141 The decision is not supported. The draft order was withdrawn. The factions, please. “Timoshenko Block” – 109, “Our Ukraine” – 32, the rest of the factions did not vote. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize and get into the agenda so that, if we include them, next plenary week, or maybe something this week, if the committees are ready, we can consider it. It is the inclusion of a draft Ordinance on the introduction of a moratorium on changes and additions to legislation on language policy and legislation, which defines the main orientations of national policy on the national security of Ukraine in the foreign policy sphere. Bill number 6452, author: Yacenouk. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:12:50]] For 124 No draft decrees included. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the project's day session a 30% reduction in housing and utility prices and consumption of natural gas, electricity, public transport services. [[except taxi]] [[Registration number 6423]] Please vote. [[14:13:26]] For-143 The decision is not supported. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, “Blok Timoshenko” – 103, “Our Ukraine.” – 25, Communists – 15, the rest did not vote. It concerns the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences, Bill No. 6141. The author of the bill is the national deputy of Pavlovski. Please vote. [[14:14:09]] For 329 Questions are included in the agenda. Please prepare the committee for consideration. The draft Act supplementing article 164 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the abolition of responsibility for the conduct of business and the application of the principle of silent consent is put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[Bill No. 6339]] The author of the bill is Royal. [[14:14:53]] For 292 The bill is included. Please prepare the committee for consideration. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u241	Alexandrovskaya, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! To be honest, I don't understand what's going on in the Supreme Council Hall right now. We have an agenda, i.e. the agenda, which we voted on for the session, agreed upon. And all of a sudden, we're talking about some questions. One of us in general considered it immediately without special training, voted and began to discuss it. Now we're putting something on the agenda. I believe that the procedure has been violated and we need to ask questions early in the week and prepare them for voting so that we understand what we are doing. I therefore propose that the voting now cease: the inclusion in the agenda and start with the Conciliation Council next plenary week. And then on Tuesday, vote and form an agenda for the week. Why are we doing this in the middle of the week and out of the cove? I therefore propose to end the voting: inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-16-m0.u242	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovna, please read the Rules, we are acting in accordance with the Rules. [[Applause]] It is the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for strengthening the guarantee of freedom of speech in Ukraine) (registration number 6447), the author of the Arsenij Yatsenuk bill. Please vote. [[14:16:35]] For 299 Questions are included in the agenda. The vote on the inclusion in the agenda of a bill number 6511, the draft Law on the Prohibition of the Cancellation of Licences for Speech and the Deprivation of Ownership of Teleorganisms. The radio organization, the author of the Arseny Yatzenuk bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:17:11]] For-119 The decision is not supported. Finally, it is the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on the increase in expenditure on the provision of medicinal products to patients with haemophilia]] Bill number 6516. Please vote. [[14:17:46]] For 323 Included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry I'm two minutes late. The agenda is fully implemented. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Today's committee work, tomorrow's 10 o'clock. We have two codecs waiting for us tomorrow, both tax and budgetary.
