ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. Please include the “Council” system. [[16:01:59]] There are 417 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Dear colleagues, you and I have stopped at the section on the review of laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. What, Sergey Grigorovitch? From the hearing process? Please refer to Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to remind you that when we were looking at draft laws on overcoming the President's veto or other procedures in the first half of the day, we had three drafts from our Legal Policy Committee, and then we went back to Bills 5090, 5010, and I apologize for the social pay issues. But many MPs don't understand what this was about, because it was the first one before those drafts that were taken. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to go back to this bill. I see that there are enough votes in the room to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u3	Is there no objection to such an offer? I am voting on the proposal of the Mishchenka People’s Deputy to return to the 5010 Bill in connection with what took place, there, when we consider a project. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:04:09]] For 272 Let's get back to it. Since we have had both the presentation and the clarification of issues, the procedures provided by the Rules for the consideration of this project have all been followed. We're moving on to the decision-making process. The first is the motion by the President of Ukraine to reject the bill. I'd like to make a determination as to the rejection of the bill. [[16:04:56]] For -6 The offer is not supported. The proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the subjectivity of social pay cases, registration number 5010. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:05:33]] For 342 Veto overpowered. Since the next three drafts have been moved to the next plenary week by decision of the Supreme Council, we are moving on to the next chapter. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian privatization laws on the responsibility of buyers of privatization objects is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4275. Reported to the head of the State Property Fund, Dmitry Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u4	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u5	Oh, one second, one second, please. Dear colleagues, in the morning plenary, we approved the decision to review the shortened procedure for the projects discussed in the first reading. If there are no other suggestions now, we will continue our consideration of the reduced procedure at the evening session. Is there no objection? There is a denial, please, of Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich, today there will be two bills: 3155 and 3155-1. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the granting of the status of civil servant to medical, pedagogical and pedagogical workers. It's a very important bill that has social significance and weight. And I'm asking you to consider these bills in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u7	And there are no other objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u8	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, we can only put to the vote a reduced procedure. We are fully guaranteed by the Rules. That's why we decided at the morning session to consider what we were looking at first. Now, if there's no objection, we're looking at everything again, except for two projects. We don't have the right to make decisions here right now. There's no objection to being cut short except for two projects? None. Please report a summary of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u10	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is suggested by a bill aimed at increasing the responsibility of the buyers of privatization objects for their commitments, as well as for the provision of high social standards for privatization workers during the post-privatization period. The bill amends basic privatization legislation. In particular, it is mandatory to include in contracts the purchase and sale of objects to privatize the obligations of the buyer to fulfil the terms of the collective agreement, to prevent debt from arising and to pay wages, to ensure timely and full payment of taxes and compulsory payments to the budget. The terms of the commitment, the order in which they are monitored, are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the event of a failure or improper performance by the buyer of the terms of the contract of sale, the State's privatization authorities will have the right to waive the contract. In such a case, the public body of privatization shall inform the buyer of the refusal of the contract and shall be deemed to be terminated from the date of such notification. The privatized object, including the land area, returns to state property on terms, in order and in terms of terms defined by the sales contract, for this purpose it is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the typical sales contract. The buyer has the right to challenge in court the decision of the State Privatisation Authority to refuse his rights and positions. This is also reflected in the draft law. Once again, this bill aims to increase the responsibility of buyers in the privatization process and to preserve high social standards for post-privatization workers. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u11	Thank you, Dmitri Mikhailovich. According to Bondar Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u12	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the Economic Policy Committee has considered a government bill that foresees the dissolution of sales contracts if conditions are not met, so to speak, in a unilateral manner, on the initiative. In the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, the initiative of the Fund of the State of Ukraine. It should be pointed out that during the discussion of the bill at the committee meeting, there was a sharp discussion on the situation of the project, which the privatization authorities were given the right to refuse. a contract for the sale of privatization objects in the event of failure or improper performance by the buyer of the terms specified by the contract of sale. And the result of this refusal, according to the project, is the return of privatized property to state property. The members of the committee concluded and decided that during the second reading, changes would be made to the project, where the rule would only be applied if the buyer failed to comply with the terms of the contract, such as the fulfilment of the terms of the collective agreement, as well as the timely and incomplete payment of taxes, congregations, and compulsory payments. That is to support in the first reading, but it's important to work out this bill in the second reading. By the way, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of its comments and proposals. I want to remind you that this bill was passed by the government during the beginning of the financial crisis, when the issue of wages, other collective agreements, was urgently raised in order to force the owners to do so. I want to say to myself, as a professional, that this norm is not entirely democratic, it violates certain rules of current legislation, that such decisions should still be made through the courts. Therefore, the committee suggests that the first reading should be supported and that the second reading should be further developed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u13	We're signing up for the discussion, two for, two for the "against". Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u14	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, my personal opinion is that this bill is clearly needed by the country. But this bill, I think, is almost 15 years late, maybe 20 years late. Because the main part of objects of a variety of character and social and household nature and industrial character and industrial character and agri-industrial character are now privatized, they have one, or resold tens of times, and certainly this privatization has never taken place in the sense that the state has performed its primary function, it is the control over the privatization of all these issues. And I don't remember having the State Property Fund say at least once that, except for the fact that there's a scandalous story to at least once, in any other way, the State will return for its failure to fulfil its obligations under privatization conditions, so that the State will return these objects to state property. And I'm sorry I didn't, because we have a whole field, especially if we're taking an agro-industry complex, it's a sugar field, for example, almost all of it, or it's been cut down, as they say, by equipment and scrap metal, etc. So I think that, of course, this norm or this bill that changes the existing legislation needs them today. But the State Property Fund cannot unilaterally change conditions or reprivatize or return to state property. There is a judicial body and proceedings, and so on. I would count as follows that the State Property Fund should initiate changes to existing legislation. And in privatization conditions. Those who write should write out clearly and clearly that if by one norm. The position of this treaty in the privatization process does not work – then the State Property Fund should automatically refer it to the court and, so to speak, refer it back to the State. If this norm isn't predicted, I'm counting on it to be abuse, on the one hand. And on the other hand, it's not completely democratic, and it doesn't meet constitutional standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u16	violates the rights of the owners. So I'm counting on this bill to go back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u17	Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u18	Marmazov's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u19	Eugene Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! Our Special Commission for the Monitoring of Privatization of the Supreme Council reviewed this draft law, which was introduced and drafted at the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, such a law is necessary. Because we really don't understand the monitoring of treaty obligations, we don't have a clear programme in this direction. And you have to say, the fund controls over 2,500 of these sales contracts. Initially, all privatization has been returned through courts, some two hundred from a number of enterprises since 1992. It must be said that there are positive points to this law. First of all, this is the implementation of a collective agreement, it's a really good time. The positive point is that there is a need to set specific lines, not more than five years for the introduction of progressive technologies. But at least five years of social programmes and environment must be added to the stat. But a big negative in this law, and in this case all the berries are all flowers, and the berries are given great powers by the Cabinet of Ministers in the face of the Holding Fund to unilaterally break sales contracts. What is it? This is a straight path to manual management and, of course, a straight path to corruption. You wish we didn't break the contract with you, as you say. So the Commission believes that the draft cannot be adopted in any way at this time. And we believe that this draft law must be transposed into first reading, positively left behind, but never allowed to have a unilateral breach of the contract of sale in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u21	Please, from a faction that has not been registered, "Livvina Block", Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u22	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. In principle, it's a very simple question. If the person who privatized the object or other object did not comply with the conditions of all privatization, he would obviously have to get rid of the object, would he not? On the other hand, those who privatize a huge number of objects in Ukraine and do not fulfil their obligations are primarily social infrastructure-related issues, and this is what happens in a number of cases, that is what benefits them, that is what they work for, and when it comes to kindergartens, if it comes to profiling, and so on, it's all thrown out, that's what no one does. Is that the right approach? The only thing that I think is going to have to do with the work or preparation for the second reading, including the subjects of the legislative initiative, is somehow to resolve the legal conflict that arises here, because in the Constitution of Ukraine, article 67, it is said that paying taxes and compulsory congregations is a constitutional obligation, you understand that. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u24	And it turns out that in connection with this legislative proposal that you're making, that this is the basis for breaking the treaty, and it says "other penal measures," so I think that this legal problem is going to have to be solved. But if the privatizer doesn't, once again, I want to say, the terms of privatization, it obviously doesn't deserve to be used and profited from this object, it's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u25	The discussion is over. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization in relation to the responsibility of buyers of privatization objects is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4275]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:19:30]] For 139 The decision is not taken. The proposal of the Marmazov People’s Deputy to send him to redesign the subject of the legislative initiative with re-examination for re-reading. The proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:20:02]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on transactions with donor raw materials in external economic relations]] [[Registration number 4410]] Reported Deputy Minister of Economics Petnicky Valeriy Teziyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u26	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, proposed for your consideration by the bill, is expected to exclude in the Ukrainian Law "On transactions with donor raw materials in external economic relations" the rule on the mandatory change in the code of UCTZED ready-made production in the processing of donor raw materials, and to reconcile individual provisions of laws with the current legislation of Ukraine. First. With regard to the exclusion of the rule concerning the mandatory change of the UCZED code. By compiling operations on January 1, 2002, a new edition of the Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations, where the transaction with donor raw materials is defined as a process of processing raw materials as a result of a technological process with a change in the OCTZED code in the Ukraine processing market, a situation has arisen that has caused the cessation of activities of certain Ukrainian producers, including small and medium-sized enterprises. The codification of goods is designed in such a way that in many cases there is no change in the code according to UCTZED during the deep conversion of the donor raw material into the finished product. A large number of processing processes are scientific, high-tech, and individual processes are even unique. This applies to businesses such as color metallurgy, such as the processing of titanium, titanium powder, or other titanium products. Chemical production of high - frequency inert gases, processing, processing of diamond raw materials. Car industry. For example, guarding light cars. Biotechnological production is the production of bioimplants from anatomical materials. Light industry. Making clothes with a cut. Electrotechnical industry. Woodworking industry and so forth. At the same time, in addition to the requirement to change the UTZED code, a valid law contains enough other criteria in the conduct of tax transactions. That is, the customer’s raw material at a particular stage of processing, as well as in the final one, should be the main material and its value.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u27	Please finish. We have an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u28	no less than 20 percent of the total value of finished products. This requires a prior delivery of the donor’s raw material. In addition, the law gives the Cabinet of Ministers the right to take account of economic interests, to restrict or modify the conditions of individual tax transactions. In addition, the bill proposes some technical changes resulting from changes to Ukrainian legislation so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u29	Have a seat, please. Fellowship of the head of the Plitników subcommittee, Alexei Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u30	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy at its meeting on 06 July 2009 reviewed the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on transactions with donor raw materials in external economic relations]] This bill contains a number of provisions that relate to the development of the practice of changing the relevant codes of external economic activity, including the addition of a number of articles in the Act, including article 13. This applies to different sectors of the national economy, i.e. the production of different sectors of the national economy, there starting with agriculture and ending with the production of the metallurgical industry. The main scientific and expert body of the Supreme Council in general has produced positive results from this bill, although there are also some in this observation. Taking all this into account, the Economic Policy Committee recommended that the bill be supported by the Supreme Council. I reiterate that this was the view of the Committee on Economic Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u31	Let's write two in a row, two in a row. Osika Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what I think of this bill. If he goes to second reading, I would like to draw attention to a very important situation. Perhaps the idea of some products with a lower depth of processing, a lack of code, and normal. But it can't be distributed to all goods, because otherwise we'll open a very big hole for gray and black imports. If the product is only imported for processing, the finished product should receive a specific code “Z”. If we make exceptions, we have to make them clear in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u33	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u34	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, my personal opinion, I think it will support our faction, the Party of Regions, that this law cannot be upheld and that is why. Of course, in a period of particularly economic crisis that has overtaken, and our Ukraine is, and our businesses are now in such a difficult state, of course, that the Ministry of Economics and other ministries, which are responsible for a certain direction of economic development and Ukraine, should contribute or at the same time make changes to laws that would facilitate or enable us to load our businesses. In fact, this bill, in my opinion, does not allow us to take this opportunity to get our workers to work, and our businesses are flourishing, and on the contrary, they are some. My personal opinion, therefore, is that with the donor raw material imported into Ukraine, we need to look carefully and that the mechanism needs to be worked out so that there is no abuse, but that this process needs to be promoted. With regard to Ukrainian raw materials, such as sunflowers, there is no doubt that the State must do everything in order to ban the export of raw materials from Ukraine and thus create additional facilities and mechanisms for the construction of enterprises, to be built in Ukraine, to create jobs and to deepen, so to speak, the economic relevance of one or another work in the processing of our raw materials, so that Ukraine is not a raw material supplement, but that Ukraine is a country that makes high-tech or high-processing technological processes of any raw material, including the agricultural sector. So I would ask this bill to go back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u35	The discussion is over. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine shall be put to the vote. [[on transactions with donor raw materials in external economic relations]] [[Registration number 4410]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:28:44]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Alexy Vitaliovich, what are the proposals? There's no offer, is there? There's a proposal for reprocessing and re-reading. The proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:29:17]] For 122 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax, registration number 5346. [[on the tax treatment of services of certain types of tourism]] A letter was received from the head of the committee, Sergio Anatoliovich Teryochina, requesting that Bill 5346 be withdrawn. The motion to withdraw this bill is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:30:17]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please report the draft law. There is no Sergey Anatolyovich. Please proceed with the procedure of Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u36	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, given that some of the deputies have now met there and are meeting in the corridor, we will now ask them and there is a proposal to return and vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u37	Alexander Sergiyovich, how far we're going to be here is within the limits. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u38	Alexander Vladimirović, I think this will be in full compliance with the Rules. And if you take a classic that we've had a long time in Parliament that said, "All that is Parliament's adoption is right."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, then. Yes, Ivan Grigorovich. Please, the microphone of Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko asked for words. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u40	It's very strange to see such legal nihilism. The head of the regular committee, the person who is to be the first to stand on the watch of the Rules, first to break it: let us not pay attention to the Rules, but to the power of the majority. So the Rules, Alexander Sergiyovich, are the laws of Ukraine, it is the law. And let's not hang barn castles for the courts, or tomorrow for the Supreme Council, as you would like to hang, but let's abide by the requirements of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u41	We comply with the requirements of the law. Since there is no reporter, we are going to discuss the project without presenting it. Please record: two in favour, two in the opposite, the discussion of Project 5346. Please. Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u42	Thank you. Landik, Party of Regions. You know, it's weird when a coalition that doesn't really exist drafts a bill and doesn't want to vote on it, and it puts something in the way. Read this law: The release of children who are sent to sanatorium treatment is sacred. Thus, Ephraim told you that what is done for children is right. And we believe that it should be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u43	National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u44	Kamchatten, Timoshenko Street. I thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, for saying that there is no reporter here, and the process has gone as they say. So let's move on, somehow in the right direction. Today, the president of Ukraine, Heroia, has given the next hero in his paws. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why don't you know who? Milkshake. He gave it to Omelchenka today. So what's going on in the state anyway? What VAT should be discussed? We have to save the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u45	The discussion is over. Puts the vote to the vote. From the faction was a performance by Kamchatny’s national deputy. It is based on the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Added Cost Tax, registered number 5346, introduced by the People's Deputy Teryochini. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:35:44]] For-170. The decision is not taken. What will be the suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please make an offer, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, well, read, read this project, the draft of this law amending the value added tax. Evidently, he was a longtime representative. And it's a temporary date for the period from 1.12.09 to 28/02/10. But by 28.02 he won't be signed by the President. Because of that, I don't know, we need to get some details here right away, some adjustments for a period of time. We are voting in favour, of course, this bill is very much needed. He releases individuals under 18 years of VAT. But it's totally funny. They'll say we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u47	In order for them not to be funny and to be filmed, according to national deputy Lazko, it would be necessary to vote in favour of this proposal that was put to the vote. Now this motion for voting is no longer put to the vote. There is a proposal for re-examination in the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:37:15]] For-151 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Write your motives, please. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, you are looking at the basis of this law. They're attacking the saints, trying to rob the children. [[B in m in s a l in]] It proposes to suspend the provision that exempts VAT from travel to sanatorium treatment, health care and recreation in Ukraine under the age of 18. You can see that you wanted to suspend the act of law with which we were deprived of VAT. I mean, return the VAT to the children. You read the law. Terethin never makes the law for good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u49	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u50	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Laishka?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u51	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, the law that applies to the tax regime for services of certain types of tourism. For people who have become engrossed in power in the country -- unconstitutional, undeclared -- it's about giving children under the age of 18 the freedom to pay VAT. A group of regions that spent six months telling how she cared about the poor did not vote in favour of this law today, and this means that millions of Ukrainian children from low-income families are deprived of the opportunity to go on vacation through the Party of Regions because they do not have enough money to pay for these vacations. Shame on the Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u52	Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u53	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please give the floor to my colleague Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u54	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, Party “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask your attention to the formation on the Conciliation Council of the Day Order, because every day we postpone the consideration of the Bills that are included in the agenda. Today, 1343-1, 4332, 4817, which were not considered on the committee, are excluded from the agenda. At the same time, following up on the work of the Supreme Council, these were exceptions when no rapporteurs or coreporters came from committees to the session hall when drafts were being considered. Today we meet for the first time when there is neither a reporter nor a co-rapporteur, and there is no need for effective work. That's why I'm asking you to include those bills that are needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u55	Smythuch Grigori Evdzimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u56	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! I want to answer Mr. Lazko, first of all, it was your party that introduced the bill and didn't come to his report. That's the first question. The second question. In recent years, taxes on Ukrainian citizens and exporting businesses have now owed over 20 billion dollars. Here's the question that needs to be answered, and when it's a complex question, then you have to understand that this is the very criminal tax and it has to be changed for a long time. So I have a question for you, and why didn't you change or cancel that tax completely when we had the possibility of most coalitions. Thus, as a matter of principle, it can be considered rather than saying something that benefits someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u57	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u58	I'm sorry, I didn't sign up, but if I sign up, I'll pass on the Easy word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u59	Dear fellow MP, we are now proposing a bill that we are considering here to give aid not to anyone, but to our children. These are those children who, unfortunately, have been overlooked by the State. And we need to give this support so that they can go to Young Guards today, and to Artek, and to other health facilities, children from rural families, from workers' families, from miners' families and all the other population categories that need state support. So I think there's enough shaving in the eloquent, Alexander Volodymyrovich, let's put the vote back on the bill and support it. And you can't delete what your colleague Yavorowski said, the rule of 28.02, so you don't laugh at us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u60	Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u61	I think we should go back, it's about children, because half of us don't understand, see, or read, or don't understand Ukrainian phraseology, and we have to give the MPs the opportunity to correct the mistake, and vote for the children of poor families. I don't believe they're going to Artek or Young Guards, for God's sake, they're going to the Azov Sea, but they also need to take VAT off their travels.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u62	Voting arguments completed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back to the beginning of this debate, because the draft law was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Teryohinim, a member of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, who signed a letter requesting that the bill be removed from consideration as one that has lost its relevance. It's for clarity, clarity, and not much of a demagogy exercise here. A draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is being announced for consideration. [[on fishing activities in waters outside Ukraine’s jurisdiction]] [[Registration number 4344]] Reported by Minister of Agrarian Politics Melnik Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u63	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The need for the bill is due to the fact that a valid regulation of the law provides for licensing only for fishing carried out in industrial areas of fish farms other than domestic ponds, i.e. only in waters under Ukraine’s jurisdiction. At the same time, the vast majority of the raw materials are extracted by the Ukrainian fishing fleet in waters outside Ukraine’s jurisdiction in the open ocean and in the exclusive maritime economic zones of foreign nations. Ukraine is one of the parties to the Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea concerning the Conservation and Management of Transboundary Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, which directly requires the flag State to exercise control over such vessels on the high seas by means of fishing licences, permits or permits. Licensing practices are implemented by most ocean-farming countries, including the United States, Australia, New Zealand, the EU. Thus, the introduction of a compulsory licensing of fishing activities under the flag of Ukraine, operating in waters outside the jurisdiction of Ukraine, along with the licensing of this activity in inland waters, will enable State authorities to ensure proper control of the activities of vessels under the flag of the State and to prevent unauthorized fishing and to monitor, control and control such vessels, their industrial operations, providing certain conditions for such control under licensing conditions. The adoption of Ukraine's law will enhance Ukraine's authority as a country that adheres to previous agreements, more effective control by the State over the activities of fishing vessels under the flag of Ukraine, increase the mutual responsibility of shipowners and state authorities with the management of water living resources will also ensure the smooth trade of fish and marine products in external markets and make poaching impossible. Please support this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u64	Please sit down, Yuri Fedorovich. Leap Xenia Mikhailovna, co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u65	Kseniya Liapina group “For Ukraine”. Indeed, this bill has been drafted for the purpose of implementing the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Transboundary Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. At the same time, it also brings our legislation into line with the requirements of European Union legislation for licensing the activities of operators engaged in fishing activities in waters outside Ukraine's jurisdiction. The members of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the law at its meeting on 9 September 2009, proposing to adopt the bill, but on the basis of the fact that several serious comments were raised during the discussion of the bill, particularly since the bill did not actually add a new type of licensing, but clarified the type of licensing that was already available, only extending it on waters outside Ukraine's jurisdiction, raises questions about what to do with article 14 of the License Act, which is the subject of amendments, and this article speaks of the fact that licensing actually allows activities in Ukraine. So both the Scientific and Expert Office and the National Deputies are asking the question that, from a legal point of view, there is a rather questionable question without amending article 14 to distribute this type of license under the jurisdiction of Ukraine, i.e. it is necessary to clarify and extend the formulation of this law. They also point out that there are special permits for the special use of fish and other aquatic living resources as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u66	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u67	the relevant issue of licensing and the issue of appropriate permits. In other words, we propose to adopt this law as a basis, and to seriously refine it to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u68	Let's sign up for a discussion. Two for, two against. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, and our distinguished voters. Of course, in today's chaos, which is happening today on the internal and external seas of Ukraine, especially with the barbarism with which fish is caught today, there is no doubt that there is a great need for these things to be normalized somehow. But, well, frankly, I'm here to report to Mrs. Kseniya, who just spoke, and I don't see, we're going to issue these internal licenses that we issue to our fishing vessels, to state structures, and so on, we're going to issue them in order to allow them beyond Ukrainian jurisdiction to fish there? I don't know how valid they're going to be, how will they act, who's going to do it all, and what's it going to look like? But, I don't know, maybe let's just go the way we want to adopt this bill in the first reading, but in no way do we accept it today as a whole. He will need further consideration. Let the committee, because there's no one from the committee today, actually, except for Leapina, who reported it. After all, it's probably something we need to work on and put in. Because I'm afraid it's just not just a piece of paper that we're going to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u70	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u71	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I believe that this bill is proposed by Mr. Melnik, Minister of Agrarian Politics, but only in the first reading. Why the first reading? And why should we discuss it? And why should we express our views? In my opinion, the fact that we are today in the food sector of Ukraine alone does not provide industrial production and cultivation and production of fish products for the population of Ukraine. This certainly affects the health of the Ukrainian population, since you know that the component of our citizen’s diet should be of a number, including fish products, including seafood, so to speak. And in my opinion, Ukraine lost considerable opportunity when it had one of the largest fleets, the fishing fleets, and unfortunately it not only lost, but it is still unable to revive this fleet today. And, of course, this issue needs to be discussed in general more broadly, because the potential of a country that loses its way of not catching fish in our economics, so to speak, the allocation of quotas is a drawback, a consequence in general in this area. So my suggestion that this issue should be discussed more broadly, more globally. And I support this idea so that this bill can be adopted in the first reading so that we can make the right conclusions and give information to the MPs that we have in general in this area, what quota we are getting, how many fishing vessels are going under the flag of Ukraine, which is going to the Ukrainian market, and which is going beyond Ukraine to make us understand. What's in it for me is what's in it for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u72	The discussion is over. The faction that wasn't recorded is one minute. National Deputy Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u73	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I think that the consideration of this bill is just a reason for a more serious discussion. The point is that we really need to reconcile our legislation with international mechanisms. And here I agree with Kseniya Liapina, who says that we should adopt this bill in the first reading and then we should remove all of these legal inadequacies. But let's see, let's look at this technology chain. The thing is, we have a lot of vessels out there today catching fish outside our waters, so to speak. There are some fishing zones. And we can simply lose these fishing zones if our legislation fails to meet international legislation, our international obligations. We have lost so many international fishing zones. That's the first one. The second question is the question of reprocessing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u74	Ivan Alexandrovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u75	If we had statistics now, we would see that very many fish caught are being processed, not in Ukrainian factories, but outside Ukrainian factories. And it would seem that the trick would be that we don't have a license, we won't be allowed to go to the outdoor processing plant. That's what international legislation says. But we will not even be allowed to catch that fish. So I think we should adopt this bill in the first reading. We need to have a serious conversation on this issue. And finally, you have to understand that you have to create jobs in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u76	The discussion is over. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[Registration number 4344]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:55:15]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Xenia Mikhailvna, what will be the offer? Xenia Mikhailna? The deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship proposes that the draft of the legislative initiative be returned for further consideration in a reopened first reading. The proposal is for a vote. [[16:55:59]] For 314 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Law on Space Activities of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the improvement of the regulatory mechanism]] [[Registration number 4768]] Reported the director - general of the National Space Agency, Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u77	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed in a bill amending the Ukrainian Space Act. The adoption of the Act amending the Law on Space Activities in Ukraine will allow for the elimination of inconsistencies between the rules of the Law on Space Activities and applicable legislation, as well as allowing for the improvement of state regulation and governance in the field of space activities and providing more favourable conditions for the expansion of mutually beneficial international cooperation in the field of the use of space for peaceful purposes. The basic principles of space activity in the country are defined by the Ukrainian Space Act. It was adopted by the Supreme Council in 1996. Nevertheless, the law has been passed for more than 10 years, in fact 14 years, so it is a key normative instrument in the field and successfully regulates the vast majority of legal issues. At the same time, life is moving forward, and even good laws need to be clarified. Taking into account the challenges facing the current state of the economy and taking into account that the financial support of the State is limited, especially in the budget area, space programmes take a broad range of investment, credit and financial resources from other sources. The branch is moving on to a new stage of its development through the commercialization of its activities and the development of international cooperation. In connection with this bill, it proposes to make the following major changes to the "On Space Activity" Act: clarifying the names of space programs, as well as clarifying the provisions on the development of the conceptual basis of space activities, including a new position for the National Space Agency to open its representations, introducing new articles: monitoring of external economic activity, clarifying the order of registration of space appliances launched into space, and clarifying the order in which they are removed from the national register of space appliances. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u78	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Royal Natalia Yuriovna is a co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u79	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship has considered Bill 4768, and the Committee proposes to support the bill and calls for the support of the people's deputies to support the Ukrainian space industry and, above all, at a difficult, difficult economic time when we understand that budget funding is lacking in full, and we believe that special attention should now be paid to this bill in order to ensure that it does not involve additional budgetary funding that does not entail additional budget costs. The draft Law 4768 proposes to amend the existing law, clarify the concept of “space technology”, clarify the term “community State programme”, clarify the development of the conceptual framework for space activities and propose the development of a strategy for national space agencies up to 20 years of age or older, allow the National Space Agency to open its representations in regions and countries that are likely to move forward to Ukrainian technology markets and our technologies, supplement the article “Controlling the conduct of external economic activities” under the Law on the Authorisation System in the field of economic activity, and clarify the registration of space appliances. The Chief Research Office of the Supreme Council made a number of comments on the bill, but it generally supports the bill and believes that the second reading can be further elaborated. The Committee of the Supreme Council feels the same way. We know that since the time of the Soviet Union, the space industry has always been maintained in Ukraine, and this is one of the main strategic directions, the competitive directions in which Ukraine is represented today in international markets. We know that the revenues of the space industry increased in 2009 and the number of rocket launchers produced in 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u80	Please finish, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u81	On the basis of the number of launches made in 2009, Ukrainian rocket carriers took fourth place in the world. We therefore believe that such an industry, which is now competitive, needs to be done in order to support it. I call on the people's deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u82	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Yuri Volodymyrovich's digger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u83	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. What I'm saying is that we've already delayed the process of seizing space, in fact, like air space, with regulatory acts. The whole world is ahead of it. And when we are, in fact, properly represented in the space arena, like the state that manufactures one of the best carriers today, this law is absolutely not political and it is necessary to adopt it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u84	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u85	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, this law is not political but necessary for the country. In addition to improving the regulatory and legal framework for space activities in Ukraine, the bill provides for the development of a long-term strategy for Ukraine's space activities for 20 years or more, which will determine the basis of state policy in this area for the future. The adoption of the project will allow for the elimination of inconsistencies between the provisions of the Ukrainian Space Act and the active and active legislation on specific issues of the activities of the NCA, as the central authority of the executive branch of Ukraine, the control of the activities of entities of outer economic activity, the introduction of space appliances into and removal from the State Register, and so on, and the improvement of national regulation and management in the field of space activities. I'm calling on my colleagues from the BIT faction to really keep the law from being politicized and so you don't fail like the Law of Poloneyev, like the Law of Terehina you failed the country you need. So do not fail this law, yes, vote! The faction of the Party of the Regions offers a mythical coalition, a mythical majority, to vote and support the law that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u86	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u87	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, even though the bill relates to space activities, but I've read it carefully and there's absolutely something on Earth, and it's good that about earthly things. Because in Ukraine, and everyone has talked about it, and they know, there aren't so many globally competitive industries in the international arena of our industry, and that's what space refers to them. Moreover, it does not take money from the execution, it does it from the budget. And those successful projects that have been carried out, which are the pride of Ukraine, have given sufficient revenue to the government's execution, to the state budget. The 96th Law is not out of date -- it's true, but the positions that the author of the legislative initiative makes are absolutely right. The very change in structure, and more representation is obviously foreseen in the regions, is an incentive for the space industry to develop not only monopolistically in monoregions, but also throughout Ukraine, and that is certainly a positive one. Once again, there are no objections. And if there's a profile committee's will, if they don't vote against it, maybe we should think about voting on it today as a whole. Once again, I don't see any things going against logic and Ukrainian legislation. The “Lithuania Block” will also support the bill in the first reading if it is presented in the second reading, and in general also. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u88	One minute, National Deputy Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u89	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the law is appropriate. And you can see in the hall, let's say all the factions come together at the same time that it needs to be supported. Because, in fact, by regulating the inadequacies that are in the Space Act and in the legislation that applies to the National Space Agency, we will be able to get into new perspectives. Because, really, we have not only launches today, but we are one of the leaders in the space field, and that says that our country is not a third-rate country, but a country that belongs to the higher league. And that's why, I think, not only in the first reading, but also in general, we can support it. And this will enable us to establish ourselves in markets as well as to control those external economic activities that are now operating in the space field. And that's why the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u90	The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Space Activities in Ukraine. Registration number 4768, please identify yourself. [[17:07:11]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues! During the discussion, proposals were made for the adoption of the draft law as a whole. In doing so, I want you to know that the decision of the committee of profile is about the need for development and adoption in the first reading, as well as the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that there is a need to coordinate the activities of the space agency regarding participation in the representation of organizations that work outside Ukraine and some other proposals. I would like us to be conscious of this offer. Is there an insistence on acceptance as a whole? Yes. Is there any objection to voting now for the adoption of the draft Law as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u91	No objection? There is a objection, please, to the microphone, Smithuh Grigory Evdzimovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u92	Alexander Volodymyrovich! I have a point of view related to your information that you've given examples of what needs to be done there, so if this is really an argument on the legal side, there's an offer like this, if it's going to be supported by the hall after the reduced procedure for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u93	The proposal to prepare for the second reading under the reduced procedure is a vote, please identify yourself. [[17:08:57]] For 292 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the transport of dangerous goods is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4251]] Reported by the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Chubay Mikhail Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u94	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, pursuant to the Ukrainian Law of 17 November 2009 on Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Safe Goods by Inland Waterways, Ukraine has joined the European Agreement on the Transport of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways. On January 28, 2010, the delegation of Ukraine transferred the instrument of accession to the agreement and depository. In accordance with article 11 of the Agreement, it takes effect one month after its final signature by the State or the deposit for the preservation by that State of its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval or accession. Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the transport of dangerous goods is developed in accordance with part seven of article 9 and part two of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts in connection with Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways. And aimed at improving the legislative regulation of the transport of dangerous goods by amending a number of legislative acts, the Ukrainian Code of Merchandise Shipping, the Ukrainian Law on Transport, Waste, and the transit of goods for transport of dangerous goods. On June 10, 2009, the bill was reviewed and approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications. In line with the conclusions of the First reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u95	Please finish Mikhail Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u96	In view of the above, I ask you to support the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the transport of dangerous goods. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u97	Have a seat, please. Fellowship of the Vice - Chief of the Transport and Communications Committee, Kruk Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u98	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Transport and Communications reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the transport of dangerous goods of 20 March 2009 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 4251]] The bill has been drafted to bring Ukraine's legislative framework for the carriage of dangerous goods by inland waterways in accordance with international standards and with Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways, which was signed on 26 May 2001 and ratified by us on 17 November 2009. The bill provides for eight amendments to the seven articles of the Ukrainian Maritime Code, one amendment to the first article of the Ukrainian Transport Act, six amendments to the three articles of the Pesticides and Agrochemicals Act, one amendment to the first article of the Wastes Act, one amendment to the first article of the Goods Transit Act. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion on 6 April last year, notes that the draft law can be considered and adopted as a basis for consideration. The Supreme Council Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster believes that the bill can also be adopted on the basis of the comments of its committee that they have given us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u100	The Committee on Transport and Communications proposes the adoption of a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the transport of dangerous goods as a basis. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u101	Let's sign up for a discussion. There is no desire to share in the discussion. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in the area of transport of dangerous goods. [[Registration number 4251]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:15:38]] For 303 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the granting of permission for the placement of road service objects]] [[Registration number 5041]] He reports: Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Kravčuk Petr Kostinović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u102	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, you have a bill to make amendments to the Ukrainian Roads Act. [[concerning the granting of permission for the placement of road service objects]] [[Registration number 5041]] The need to develop this bill is due to a large number of service objects that are not subject to article 37 of the Ukrainian Roads Act on Roads. Thus, for the time being, economic operators cannot obtain the corresponding permission provided for in the above article to accommodate hotels, campsites, shopping sites, including small architectural forms, road services, auto-fuels, warehouses, medical and technical evacuation facilities, transportation facilities, as well as other objects located on the land of the road, or need to be used for driving and going on the road. The inclusion of the above objects in road service facilities will solve this problem and create conditions for the development of road infrastructure for road users. The experience of developed countries in Europe shows that Ukraine needs a high - quality road service. The purpose of the bill is to accept the development of road infrastructure to ensure safe economic and comfortable traffic conditions. The implementation of the project does not require additional costs from the state budget. Please accept this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u103	Thank you. Please have a seat. A report from the Kruk Committee, Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u104	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished members of the people! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Transport and Communications, at its meeting on 18 November 2009, considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act of 3.08.09 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 5041]] The bill amends article 1 “Definition of terms” and article 9 on public roads of the Ukrainian Roads Act, namely: to complete the list of road services and to introduce a new term “medicine elements”. The aim of the bill is to promote the development of road infrastructure, secure economic and comfort conditions for road traffic. The need to draft a bill is due to a large number of road services that are not available in the existing road traffic law. The list includes hotels, campsites, shopping centres, medical and evacuation facilities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provided an opinion in which it believed that the bill could be adopted on first reading. As a result of the discussion at the Committee meeting, it was decided unanimously to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u105	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u106	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, is proposed in the bill to promote the development of road infrastructure for safe, economic and comfortable road conditions to complement the Ukrainian Roads Act with the new term “Establishment of Roads Sanitation” and to clarify the concept of “objects of road service”. However, under sanitation, it is suggested that toilets, urns, garbage containers, and other sanitation equipment be understood. Practically, this definition requires refinement, since its contents refer to baths, saunas, and so forth. The need for such clarification is explained by the fact that when a bill is adopted, the placement of sanitary facilities will be carried out without payment-based permission. Appropriate clarification is needed for the proposed definition of road service objects, which also includes the term “other objects that are used for road users and which are located on or need to be used for driving and leaving the road”. After all, the construction, reconstruction, and operation of these objects are carried out on a paid basis of a permissive nature. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this law in the first reading, and we call on the BUT faction, we understand that in the BUT faction today is a celebration, a greater joy: The President of Ukraine assigned the name Hero Ukraine to your member Grigory Omelchenko, this is a great joy for you. A part of him congratulates him, a part celebrates. But those who congratulate later, and those who remain, we still ask this important bill to support. We also share your joy for Omelchenko and congratulate him, yes, but whoever remains will congratulate Gregory Omelchenko later, please support and vote on the law that is required for the country. The faction of the region strongly requests that the rest of the BUT vote on the bill. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u107	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u108	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, an important bill to amend the Ukrainian Roads Act. Looking at the absence of automobiles in Ukraine, however, there is a service. I'd like to draw attention to one problem, and I think that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill in the first reading, but we don't think there's a very important element here that would significantly improve the Ukrainian roads. For when you go from Kiev to Piratín, you can go round again, and when you go from Luben to Poltava, especially in the evening, when the movement you meet is blinded, you will be directly buried in the Great War of the Homeland. What element do we lack in this bill? It's about setting up the road with political advertising. And what we've seen recently throughout Ukraine and on Ukraine's main roads, it works, dear. Yes, the road worked. It is a “tissue”. And the amount of money that was spent on this commercial was enough to at least clean up those pits, to make a hole of repairing those roads. That's why I'm asking for reality. When we spend $800 million on campaign advocacy to manipulate human consciousness, it would be more appropriate to invest in infrastructure and infrastructure. Political, which advertising was there, did not lead to the quality of the roads. And it did not lead to great regret, nor to the victory of those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u109	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u110	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” We will support this bill in the first reading because it allows for permission to place road service objects and determines what such items are. Because the international roads that are and the roads of state importance do not really have the infrastructure that is needed in comparison with even our neighbors. Therefore, it is important not only to think about camping, not only about hotels, but also about other objects that are essential both for cultural sites and tourism centres, especially in the area of preparation for Euro 2012. At the same time, we need to think about it, because there are now reconstructions of many roads, construction of new roads -- completion, construction is planned for the county road and so on. We must immediately consider that appropriate infrastructure is included in the master plans for the construction and reconstruction of roads. That's why we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u111	The discussion is over. A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Roads Act. [[concerning the receipt of a permit for the placement of road service objects]] Registration number 5041. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:26:49]] For 345. Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on circulation of bills is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3041. Reports a member of the State Commission from the securities and stock market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u112	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of promissory notes. The bill provides for amendments to a number of Ukrainian laws to bring them into line with the Bill on the circulation of promissory notes. For example, laws on associations of agriculture and codes contain a rule that is already in this law that the impossibility of completing the statutes of associations by promissory notes. In addition, the draft law stipulates that the Budget Code should have a norm regarding the prohibition of the introduction of bills for calculation with the State Budget and local budgets. Such a rule shall be entered into the budget annually. Once it wasn't introduced, and there was this attempt at budget bills. Let those who do so receive bills in the form of wages. In addition, the bill provides for responsibility and appropriate rules regarding liability and sums for matters related to the violation of the requirements of article 4 of the Bill on the circulation of promissory notes, as well as of the Codex Codex. Which foresees the impossibility of writing more bills than the quantity of goods and services and the lack of supply. The provision of promissory notes when these services and goods were not installed. The adoption of the Act should, in our view, contribute to increasing the trust of foreign and worthy national entrepreneurs to one another, as well as to the overall economy of Ukraine. And increase the reliability of the calculation by promissory notes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u113	Please take a break. And now you finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u114	They should lead to a higher reliability of billing between subjects of economic law and natural persons. I ask you to consider that even natural persons can pass bills, which can result in loss and, let's say, social consequences. Please sit down with the committee report – Praslov Igor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u115	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Finance and Banking considered Bill 3041 at its meeting, which was drafted with a view to implementing existing legislation in accordance with the Ukrainian law on the circulation of bills in Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its opinion of 6.04.2009, notes that, as a result of the review of the law on first reading, the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments made by these offices. The Committee, by its decision, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the application of bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u116	Thank you, Igor Mikolaiovich. Please sign up for the discussion. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u117	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, the project proposes a number of amendments to Ukraine's Budget and Economic Codes, Ukraine's Code on Administrative Offences, Ukrainian Laws on Economic Associations and Enforcement, which are aimed at carrying out their provisions in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Exchange of Bills in Ukraine, as well as to the law on the preciseness of its individual provisions. After considering the project, we consider it appropriate to make some comments. According to the proposed new part of article 50 of the Code of Budgets, it is prohibited to postpone payment of tax liabilities by tax, congregation, and compulsory payments. Therefore, there is no change in the Ukrainian Taxpayer Procedure Act to budgets and government trust funds, which is a special tax law that regulates the payment of legal or natural persons'obligations to budgets and public trust funds from taxes and assemblies, compulsory payments, which deals with matters related to the delay and suspension of tax liabilities of the taxpayer. In particular, the order of dissipation or suspension of tax liabilities, the basis for decisions on the dissipation or suspension of tax liabilities, in addition to tax debts, the conditions of frustration and the postponement of tax liabilities, and the grounds for the early termination of contracts of frustration, postponement, and so on. But the comments they made do not diminish the value of the law and the faction of the Party of Regions suggests that the first reading of the bill be supported in the session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u118	The People’s Deputy of Laupina hands over the right to speak to the People’s Deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u119	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” The most comfortable form of calculation is one of the most convenient forms of calculation when there is trust between the owners and the physical persons. A special convenience with the use of a long - term form of calculation occurs between operators in the use of tax bills, which improves and optimizes relations with the tax administration itself. We were able to avoid the birth of financial bills that are not provided with specific goods, services, or we would have given birth to other financial pyramids, financial schemes, and this would have been another uncontrollable money circulation. So far, we've been able to contain the birth of financial bills. As far as the proposals of this bill are concerned, they are correct in that part that there is actually no administrative responsibility for birth and circulation today, let's say, incorrect promissory promissory notes, which in turn contributes to the issuance of promissory notes that are not really provided with specific goods, specific services. I think that this administrative norm, for which they will now be punished, is disciplining the subjects of farming. I think that's the right thing to do, and I think that today it's going to be illegal to do calculations with the local budgets, and I would like to emphasize and disagree with the reporter that the form of budgeting, tax calculations, is what she's going to do, and she's going to stay, and she's going to welcome the tax inspection. It is also fair to suggest that the statutory funds of societies will not be filled with promissory notes, but with real costs. So there's a reference to science and expertise -- they're technical, which can really be removed from the second reading. So I also propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u120	There's no insistence on the factions that haven't been signed up?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u121	Yes. Can't see who? National MP Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u122	In general, the existence of a long-term form of calculation and commitment has brought sufficient recovery to Ukraine's economic life. At the same time, some of the points that have had a negative impact on Ukraine's trust in the financial system as a whole have also been produced. Thus, there are few cases where bills were issued without cash obligations, without debt. Many bills were issued to legal persons who were not supported by material resources and who did not have any, indeed, economic grounds, but they did, they did, they did, they did, and eventually this led to the collapse of the economy. That is why I support the adoption of this law. I support the amendments proposed by scientific and expert management. So I believe that the adoption of this law and the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine will support this law on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u123	Is there any more? Who insists on factions that have not been recorded? None. The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of promissory notes. [[Registration number 3041]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:37:34]] For-300 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[on first-line free car insurance for disabled persons of war]] Registration number 5229. Reported by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Denisov Ludmila Leontiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u124	Dear National Deputies! Dear Lord Chairman! This year, Ukraine will mark 65 years of victory in the Great War of the Homeland. As part of the preparations for this landmark date, the government developed a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, and submitted it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in October 2009. Thank you for putting it into the order of the day, since this bill is very important for the time being. Today, according to Ukraine’s laws, there are two queues to ensure that transport is carried out on an off-the-shelf basis and in the order of the general order. In total, more than 92,000 people are in need of car insurance. There are 27.6 thousand people with disabilities, 23.5,000 of whom are disabled by war, about 15,000 of whom were directly involved in the fighting of the Great War and the war with Japan. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet Order, which has been in force since 1997, there is still a turn made up of persons with disabilities who have special merit before the Fatherland. It is proposed that the government should give priority to the provision of cars to those who have special merit before the Father and extend this benefit to persons with disabilities of war among those who took direct part in the fighting during the Great War and the war with Japan. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that your support for the government bill will be a well-deserved gift to the supporters of the country before February 23rd, which remains a holiday for these elderly people. Please, the Ukrainian people's deputies, support and adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u125	Thank you. Please report from the committee, Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u126	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. National Deputy Suškević, BUT faction. I am grateful to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Humane Leonidovny Denisov, for the professional, qualified presentation of a government project aimed at speeding up the free receipt of cars to the disabled who participated directly in the fighting during the Great War and the war with Japan. It is worth noting that this government initiative is particularly appropriate and necessary on the eve of the celebration in the current year of the 65th anniversary of the great victory over the fascist invaders. I would like to point out that the comparative table in the bill contains the previous edition of the first part of article 13, paragraph 22, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. This is due to the fact that the bill was introduced in October of last year, when the text given in the comparative table was valid. In December, the Supreme Council adopted a law that changed the point and looked a little different. Despite such changes, however, the Bill of Supplement to paragraph 22 on the first-line free provision of war disabled persons who have participated directly in hostilities is entirely appropriate. Especially, dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the terminology of the project. The word “first row” in the proposed edition in the new part of paragraph 22 is essentially a complement to the standard of the valid first part of this paragraph 22, which provides extra-free security. That is, the war invalids referred to in the bill already have the right to extra car insurance under the legislation. The norm proposed by the government now, to it, offers an additional “requirement security” and among them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u127	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u128	Adds another "first turn". Thus, war invalids from the number of individuals who took direct part in the fighting during the Great Homeland War and the war with Japan will have the right to receive a free car first among extraordinaries if the proposed bill is adopted. It's important and important. I would also like to point out that the bill offers benefits to those who have special merit before the Father. The list of these persons is set out in article 11 of the Law. These are the heroes of the Soviet Union, full of Slava bachelors, as well as the heroes of the socialist work, worthy of this title for the work of the Great Homeland War. Sadly, they were undeserving, as they say, forgotten, and, in particular, disabled. That's what's touching cars. The bill will eliminate this apparent injustice in relation to such persons with disabilities. The committee at its meeting supported the bill, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading. And I want to say separately that this bill can only be adopted in the first reading, because, I said, in article 22, the editors are proposing additions that should be harmonised in the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u129	Let's sign up for a discussion. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, dear veterans and invalids of the Great Homeland War, it is very good that, as a result of your preparations for the elections, you may have drawn attention to the report that this document was introduced in October last year, that is, in the run of the electoral campaign. And it's good that he's made and it's very good that we're looking at him today, and I'm sure we'll support him. Of course, the game of words, in words, unfortunately, will not solve anything, decide or resolve. Now there's an extra one, and it's also suggested, if you don't write it down -- 23,000 disabled people didn't have cars, yes, I'm very afraid that by 65 years of age, they're going to have these cars. But at least one goal is to improve and improve. We will vote and propose to adopt it as a whole as a law, taking into account the amendments I have made in the course of today's session. Just focus on what you're talking about. By adopting this law, we can make an amendment to that law that we recently passed with you, that we've been fighting for a month, that's why my amendment to the free transfer of cars to the disabled has been stolen, that's why my amendment to the free transfer of cars to the disabled has been voted on. As a result of the drafting of the law for signature, the word “free” disappeared, and unfortunately the law came out without that word. We have no choice but to make a change to this law. Even though we will continue, I'm sorry, to figure out who should be responsible for falsifying the law. That is why I propose today that the amendment that you have been given to add the word “free” and the current law on the status of war veterans, guarantee their social protection and the fundamentals of the social protection of Ukraine's disabled be added to the Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u131	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u132	Make changes to two laws. Please support me as a whole as a change to two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u133	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u134	Thank you, distinguished national MPs of Ukraine! The faction of the Party of the Regions supports this law, but we need to stress the following. The point is that people need to be informed not only on the merits of the law, but also on who today, according to Ukrainian legislation and government regulations, is entitled to extra car security. Because let's think about it, the status is more important, which is the extracurricular getting of cars, or the front row. Now we're trying to get out of this situation by introducing another interesting option, the top priority among the outliers, to solve the issue of the war invalids who were involved in the fighting. Although it seems to me that we need to inform Ukrainian citizens that we are actually pushing 23,000 cars back. So these are invalids who have extracurricular status today: people with general illness, work disability, families with two or more disabilities, the disabled of the second group of the Chernobyl AES, the disabled first group, the disabled first group by sight or without both legs, the disabled with pieces of both legs and arms. So we have to get out of this problem right now, not by drafting the law and making some sort of front row line out of the queue, but we need to find these 3.3 billion dollars that we need in order to provide for the disabled and the mandatory conditions for domestic vehicles. Because the scheme that the Communist faction of Ukraine, which the government is currently working on, is to buy Chinese cars at higher prices and use $400 million under state guarantees, is the subject of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. I think we'll get back to her. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u135	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u136	I propose to support this law in the first reading, and yet to make it more correct, this disabled war from the number of motorists first of all, to make it the norm in the law, because we're basically confusing all the people and the management of the work and social protection that run this turn, because people are going to come and say, "I've got a turn, another says no, and I've got a first in turn." And this is a situation that's going to look sad enough, because today more than 150,000 people are standing on these lines. And I support that proposal that Adam Ivanovich made, because for unknown reasons, I would like to think that it was just a technical mistake. But the very important word “free” has disappeared from the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u137	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u138	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group "For Ukraine!", party "Our Ukraine". We will certainly support this important bill because those involved in the fighting and the participants of the Great Homeland War are 83 years of age. And of course, we have good laws, but we don't have enough financial security, and that's why it's been resolved for years. I attended two parliamentary hearings in this room when the question of preparing for the Jubilee victory in war was considered. And one of the most pressing issues is car security. So, of course, this bill has to be adopted with the amendments that Adam Ivanovich correctly made, but I'm concerned about the issue of financial security, because we're going to talk again, we're going to adopt the law, and people will hear it, and we're not going to solve it. That's the government's $400 million loan ruling with the Chinese, the questionable quality of the car.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u140	With their argument, they say, “up to fitness” in Zaporozhye will still not solve the problem, there will be many questions on spare parts, on fuel and so on. So I think we should go back to reviewing that decision and take real steps to provide disabled cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u141	Thank you, Baby. One second, two deputies from the same faction, now the one who didn't take part. Lalsko Oleg Valeriovich faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u142	Oleg Laszko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I want to point out that the government of Yulia Timoshenko, not during the electoral campaign, has long been taking steps to ensure that 23.5,000 people with disabilities of war who have been waiting for decades. They wait for their turn to get cars to solve the problem. Here in this room, it has been mentioned on many occasions that the Government of Timoshenko has agreed with Chinese partners to obtain a $400,000 loan for the purchase of 50,000 cars that were to be proved for the needs of the disabled at the Zaporozhye auto plant. Sadly, President Yushchenko twice promised appropriate government decisions. As a result, 23.5,000 people with disabilities still today, according to colleagues, are unable to obtain a long - awaited car. When it comes to overpriced prices, it is very easy to count. 400 million divided by 50,000 is $8,000 one car. And if you count here the value of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u143	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u144	And if you count here the cost of processing it at the Zaporez car factory, this car costs almost nothing. If you have a colleague, a shadowy Minister of Labour and Social Protection, there is an offer where to take money from the government budget to ensure that 24,000 people with disabilities are provided by cars. Please recall these suggestions. But so they're not as ephemeral as your social pay raises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u145	The discussion is over. Well, unfortunately, the faction has been given the opportunity to speak, so I have no right to give you another word. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on first-line free car insurance for disabled persons of war]] Registration number 5229. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:54:25]] For 351 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, rapporteurs, Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denisova Ludmila Leontiev and some of the deputies who participated in the discussion suggested that the draft law be adopted as a whole. The head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suškevitch, Valeriy Mihajlovich, denies this by making some of his suggestions for its work. Besides, we do. [[B in m in s a l in]] In addition, we have proposals from the national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. Please, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u146	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I don't deny it, but I'm saying that the text of the law was written last October. During this time, article 16 changed the text, meaning that we have a bill written in relation to the old version. If we are now making, we are making wrong decisions regarding the amended law to which we are amending it. See, we'll do something about it. That's the first one. And secondly, Adam Ivanovich, I've just looked at your proposal, and I support it. But it was incorporated into the law, and in the previous law it applied to the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection. Now here is the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection, and in it the word “free” is in both texts, please read there, and there is the word “free”. Thank you. So I have a proposal to adopt this law in the first reading, and the next week, we're going to adopt this law immediately after it conforms to the new edition of article 16, which will already be updated in the second reading, and we're going to adopt this law, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u147	Please, Minister of Labour, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, on article 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, can you make such a decision so that you can have a reduced procedure for the second reading? We'd work today, and tomorrow we'd adopt a law in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u149	Short-term procedure is 7 days of supply. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u150	Thank you. The point is, my honourable colleagues, that I am proposing to change the name of today's law that we are considering, to extend not only the Law on Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, but also the law in which you and I made a mistake. It's not us. It's someone. That's the first one. The other one. What prevents us now if we see that article 16 somehow does not answer, why can we not now bring this article into line? She's right in front of you. Let's read the 16th article for the transcript, and we're making changes. Then why waste the paper if you're ready to say it under the transcript? Tell me under the transcript that we need to correct, accept this amendment, accept my amendment, and vote in general for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u151	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to address all of you, because the haste in adopting this law, I emphasized it, could lead to misunderstandings in the district and district offices of work and city offices of work and social protection. Because we need to write this rule correctly. And where we're making a change in Article 13, there's a need for people to understand clearly, and the workers, that we're introducing the right to get a car first in front of people who are legally entitled. And this has to be spelled out correctly in the law, because there's going to be a double interpretation, and we're going to have more nerves and nibbles from this law in people than we're going to win today's quick vote on the law. And one more thing. We need that article 16 to be properly also active, already amended, written in this law, in a state that works today and has a legal norm, and we need to support what Adam Ivanovich says, to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u153	Finish up, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u154	If the ministry now and the minister says that it is not critical that we adopt this law in the next plenary week with the first question, well, I think I should write it down quietly and then the next plenary week should issue the first question of voting this law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-18-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, the proposal to prepare for a reduced procedure for the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection. Registration number 5229. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:59:53]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening plenary session closed. The morning plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
