ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:40]] They registered cards in the 420 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Demiscan Vladimir Fedorovich and Mironka Mikhail Ivanovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and success in their work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the summary of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary from 2 to 5 November 2010. Five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 69 issues of the agenda were discussed, as a result of their consideration: 7 laws and 8 decrees were passed, 17 bills were adopted, and 8 bills were sent to the Committee for Rereading. The 1st Bill has been redrafted for the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. 17 Bills Rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been rejected. 93 parliamentary inquiries were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an announcement. According to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko, I am informing you of the change of the name of the deputy faction "Buliya Timoshenko" to the "Baptistresses", the abbreviated name of the deputy faction "BUT – Fatherschina". Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by representatives authorized by MPs with declarations, reports, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Next up will be Olesia Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today we begin the second reading of the draft Tax Code. And in voting, I would like once again to draw your attention to what the faction of the Company is proposing to take a position in adopting this responsible document. First, in our view, it should reduce financial pressure on the real economy, on domestic producers, thereby contributing to economic growth in real terms rather than on paper. What is important to the country must receive benefits and preferences. What today harms and kills a domestic producer, of course, we should not support or tax a higher tax rate. Secondly, the Tax Code aims to reduce the social gap between a small group of those with enormous incomes and the vast majority of our citizens with minimal income. It is on this basis that the basic requirements that we will insist on in the second reading of the Tax Code are the imposition of a luxury tax, the real estate of large capital representatives, their yachts, aircraft, helicopters, precious goods; the reduction of up to 10 per cent of the income for those who do not exceed 30,000 bracelets per year and the introduction of a progressive tax scale; the tax breaks for those small and medium-sized enterprises that will actually create new jobs; the taxes have to be paid at the place of production and not at the place of registration of the firm somewhere off-shore to fill local budgets to fund social programmes on the ground. [[Overpasses should be over-taxed]] We also insist that the value added tax be abolished. It is clear that this issue may not be resolved today, but the faction of the Company once again warns all of us, respected colleagues, that this tax is in itself corrupt and criminal to the economy of Ukraine. The adoption of the Tax Code, on the principles and foundations that we propose, will enable the establishment of the State Budget in a timely manner in 2011 so that not only industry and agriculture, but also science, culture, social sphere, community spheres, can be adequately financed. But no, even the perfect, tax code will work if the country does not have order. That is why we, the Communists, are addressing you, distinguished colleagues, that we need to work very seriously on a set of measures to make this Tax Code real and help us deal with the challenges of the State. And that's what he's got first. The need to use public and public instruments — economic, administrative, legal — to get the economy out of the shadows because, according to experts' estimates, 50 per cent and more of the economy is in the shadows, no tax code will solve the challenges that we set out in this law. It is not possible to maintain order in the country without curbing corruption, of an arbitrary nature. There is therefore a need for serious reform of public administration, including courts and law enforcement agencies. From what should we start fighting corruption, it is with the sharp reduction of the official apparatus, which must be excluded today, to prevent the further increase in corruption in the State. We must also protect our producer and consumer today from the expansion of transnational corporations and prevent Ukraine from becoming a dump for imported non-liquids and a site for the production of genetically modified food products. Finally, the Act on Ukraine's Entry into WTO should be restricted and the cable conditions for cooperation with the International Monetary Fund should be reviewed. The Tax Code, which we must adopt in order to further address the 2011 budget, must today and contribute to the support of our domestic real producer, provided that credit policies in the State, particularly the National Bank of Ukraine, are changed. We, the Company of Ukraine faction, at which time we invite our colleagues, the people's deputies, to consider the faction's offer that the National Bank of Ukraine's credit rate should be 3 per cent and that commercial banks should be 5 per cent, thus effectively supporting the domestic producer. And in these circumstances, when we take a strong fight against corruption, we will decisively fight to get the economy out of the shadows, create normal prerequisites for the work of the domestic producer in the internal market, freeing it from the dictatorship and pressure of the World Trade Organization, the International Monetary Fund, to bring the national banking system, the National Bank of Ukraine and the commercial banks to bear in mind, in this case, the task to be achieved by the Ukrainian Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u3	Olesia Donej, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Who's it gonna be? Hennady Moskal. Hennady Hennadiovich, please. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Valérie Baranov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues are national deputies! Louder? Louder? More importantly, of course. As we know, on November 12, this year, there was an unprecedented beating by the acting head of the interior minister, Mohilov, a police colonel, Stognya, Ukrainian national deputy, Yuri Grimczak. You can see the consequences: both television and, colleagues, available in the hall. This incident took place right after the final talk show "Shuster Life". As a result of the conflict, the Minister of Internal Affairs’s adviser struck a national MP, causing him bodily harm. A medical examination was carried out by the national deputy Grimczak, who confirmed the existence of bodily harm during his social activity, as provided for by the Ukrainian National Deputy of Ukraine’s Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine. The findings of forensics today are there. Appropriate allegations of a criminal offence against Stognya were made by the National MP to the district government of the city of Podil, to the minister of internal affairs and to the attorney general of Ukraine. According to Ukrainian legislation, Stognia’s criminal acts fall under the terms of article 346 of the Criminal Code, a threat, or violence against a public or public official. We want to point out that Stognia’s criminal misconduct is a particularly presumptuous and cynicism with which an attack against a public official is a serious challenge to society and points to the atmosphere of permissiveness, right nihilism, and impunity that prevails today in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Today, 673 criminal cases have been committed against internal affairs officials, never in the history of Ukraine’s independence. If the Minister of Internal Affairs himself is able to beat citizens and politicians, what should be expected of average citizens from sergeants, lieutenants, and other officers of Minister Mohilov? In view of the foregoing, please contact the Attorney General's Office of the United States of America for a criminal offence against Stognya under article 346 of the Criminal Code. Taking personal control over the investigation of the crime committed by Colonel Stognya and entrusting it to the professional committees, hearing in the Supreme Council of Ukraine a report by Minister of Interior Mohilov on the state of security of citizens' rights and freedoms. And, Mr. Volodymira Mikhailovich, I think I've long overdue the proposal to instruct the professional committees to make changes to the Public Prosecutor's Act, to the police, to the Security Service, where to expressly ban active co-workers from participating in various political talk shows. This should be done by political, public, and not by active law enforcement officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u5	Thank you, too. Valery Baranov, please, your right to speak. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u6	Baranov, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear MPs, our constituents! Ukraine, as a post-Soviet State without systematic reforms, has no European future. For 20 years, everyone but us was aware of this and carried out these reforms. This is Poland, Slovakia, the Baltica and everyone else. We have 20 years of demagogies, the deception of society to make it workless and painful. Clearly, the remaining command and administrative system cannot manage the market economy. But not only did they not break it, but they strengthened it and increased it many times. The management apparatus today is a barrier to business activity. He's a extortionist and a corrupter. He will not exterminate himself or disqualify himself. Only the political will of our own and the first person can begin the process of introducing common sense into governance. We need to start with an administrative reform, building an effective management system, removing offices and services that are not critical to any problems, but only to prevent people from living. They are spoken of in the Government, says the President, and who is familiar with its concept of discussion, discussion of world experiences and its results. No system will work without professional staff. The President's most brilliant programme must be implemented on the ground. Today, a human resource base needs to be established immediately. For example, there are professional units in the housing and utility sector in Ukraine. Often elected mayors, their party deputies are usually never working in this system and are unable to reform. They'll just start learning if they want, and in a few years, they'll know what's going on. Party should be number two and skill should be number one. The desire to take full power leads to the responsibility of this authority and is bare and bare on the ground. Therefore, responsibility will lead to unwarranted expectations — criticism and loss of authority. Taking power in one hand, if possible when there is a programme of action, there is a desire to transfer funds and powers to meet the expectations of voters. But according to the Tax Code, according to the traditional budget, local authorities will live even worse. History does not know the prosperous countries where strong centralization of power and finance lives. Only true self-government and delineation of powers and finances is a guarantee of success. Yes, in Europe, yes, in America. We haven't understood that in 20 years. The desire to do what is earned on the ground in Kiev can only be explained by the desire to do something about it. As a representative of the City Association, I can say that in the history of an independent Ukraine, self-government has never been as concerned as it began in 2005, and its problems are of no concern to anyone at all. No one listens to the views and positions of the City Association and its proposals are ignored. For example, the local self-government budget is getting worse year after year. 85 per cent of the budget of any inhabited area is paid by teachers and doctors and paid for energy carriers. For capital costs, think! - provides for 0.7 per cent of the total budget. In normal countries from 20 to 60 percent, 30 times less money has our self - control to repair roads and roofs. Self-government does not have its own income base, and the development budget is formed from the sale of land and property, two sources that provide no income at all. The new code takes part of the income tax to the center. In Kiev, for example, 50 per cent is planned to be taken away, this is ahead of the Euro-2012 and the post-disturbation process that is now in place. The market fee and it is transferred to the centre is promised to be returned through subsidies. You know, it reminds me of this story when a person gets paid off to a neighbor and then walks every day and asks: give me 100 bracelets, give me 100 bracelets, he can give, maybe not give, and explain that there are more important tasks. Innovation with simplifieds deprives us of two billion bracelets of self-government. It was bad, and it would get worse, against the backdrop of a presidential programme that was justly aimed at supporting self-government and regional development. It remains a mystery how the program will be implemented if everything is done the other way around. The Association of Cities and Facts of Lithuania and the People's Party express confusion about the incoherence of the Government, the unsuspecting centralization of power and finance, the violation of the European Charter, which is the way to build a gendarmerie state without a European perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u7	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. John Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, first of all on behalf of the Party of the Regions' MPs, I would like to congratulate the radio and professional staff, wish them health, personal and professional success and family well-being. Last Sunday, 800 local councils re-voted local elections. Ukraine has thus completed the marathon of endless elections, which followed one another and have completely twisted the country and its citizens. It is very important that the current state authority has carried out its mission with honour and dignity, in accordance with President Viktor Yanukovic's request, to ensure the democratic election of the new local authorities. Today, when he had fallen into a state of passion, it was clear that the voters themselves had given a positive assessment of the integrity of the local elections, taking all the results of the vote calmly. Since 2004, our people have become much more literate politically, and today people have no longer succumbed to the provocation of the lost opposition and have refused to become a masseuse planned by some hotheads in violation of public tranquillity and order. Yes, there was no need for separate overlaps, but the electoral practice found in the Electoral Law will not be the declaration of the establishment of investigative parliamentary commissions, not on a living thread, but on a systematic basis. This is also required by the President, who established a working group to improve electoral legislation. The group will submit a proposal for an integrated electoral solution by 1 May 2011. In fact, it is the adoption of the Electoral Code, which will bring together and bring about stable rules for all elections without exception in the country. I will note as a positive fact that in the first meeting of the group, constructive representatives of the opposition participated, in particular our colleague, the prominent lawyer Yuri Klukkowski, who undoubtedly honors him. In the meantime, Ukraine can, with a sense of duty, turn over the electoral pages and embark on reforms with which the continued delay from day to day reduces our chances of stepping onto the foot of the outgoing train and entering the developed States of the world. This room is not the only place in which healthy people understand that the dreary Ukrainian economy does not follow the locomotive of modern civilization. The time has come for all of us, both the authorities and the opposition, to put politics aside for several years and to work hard on economic development. Taking advantage of Ukraine’s opportunities will be a crime before its descendants. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we need your initiatives to modernize the country, let's work together. The future parliamentary elections, which will take place in a few years, will show “who is more valuable to the mother of history”. The Supreme Council remains one of the most important centres to ensure the success of reforms. Today we begin our second reading of the Tax Code. Work on the Code must be done in a thorough manner, without regret of time, we must consider each comma. President Janukovic has made it clear that he will not sign the code if it conflicts with the interests of most citizens. Therefore, our task of finding a compromise is to strike a delicate balance between the need to fill the budget, not aggravate the working conditions of entrepreneurs and introduce global business standards in Ukraine. It is also important that the adoption of the Code will enable the Government and the Supreme Council to adopt the 2011 budget as the first on a new tax basis. The following year seems difficult, but we have no right to deviate from the reform plan. It's not Moscow anymore, it's the Third World countries. If we do not want to be anchored among them, we must take decisive, unpopular steps for which we will be thanked, not today, but tomorrow. However, reforms should not lead to lower living standards; Ukrainians can be confident that the promises of the Yanukovic electoral programme “Ukraine for People” will be fulfilled. The introduction by the President of the country to the Supreme Council of a bill on the substantial involvement of families with children was a decisive step. The Presidential Bill provides for increased payments at the birth of a child. Grants for the first child will grow from two to 25,000 bracelets, the second to 50,000, and the third to 100. It is important that the President's initiative is confirmed by the real possibilities of the budget. Yes, there was little money in the execution at the beginning of 2010, and Ukraine could not afford to increase social payments at the time, but the current power had brought order in the economy, which had led to an increase in social standards. Recently, the official mission of the International Monetary Fund, following a study of the situation in Ukraine, commended the work of the Ukrainian authorities, stated that the Government of Nikolai Azarov had implemented an effective policy of economic stabilization. Dear colleagues, President Januković's team is moving forward towards the main goal of raising the standard of living of citizens, which is what the voters expect of us. The faction of the Party of the Regions invites the entire MP Corps to unite around the economic recovery tasks of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u9	Ivan Kirilenko, Faction BUT, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u10	Dear fellow countrymen, quickly and violently passing this year, are already being actively analyzed by experts, political scientists, and viewers. Various estimates of both own and foreign, often quite the opposite, are sufficient with interest. In the view of those who were in the epicenter of events during this period, the main conclusion is that the country lives in 2010 under the symbol of political relevance. The relatively popular slogan for stability is, unfortunately, the secondary role of the rule of law and the consolidation of democracy. The October 31st election was a vivid witness, their results were made and not on the day of the vote, but harshly, on the line of the foil, long before the final day. The date of the election, contrary to the Constitution, but for reasons of political relevance, was moved from spring to autumn, it was clear. During six months, a vertical was built, a controversial but appropriate judicial reform was quickly implemented, and with the same motives, the old and new Constitution was restored. In a word, everyone was drawn in the right direction. Next. A politically appropriate Local Elections Act was passed, in which the main competitor was simply eliminated by banning blocks. In one moment, the well - known “BUT” brand disappeared from the political map of Ukraine and opened up for almost 10 years. The electorate’s name, Fatherland, had to be introduced for a little over 10 days. In the same law, a mixed system was very well implemented, as a result, the main events took place in the districts and they were either cleaning up or reorienting the real passing candidates, and so the advantage given by the party of power is based on such a majority. The law, surprisingly, provided for the original creation of appropriate electoral committees, resulting in the majority of which were made up of leaders and loyal political structures, which certainly ensured the correct calculation of the votes in the necessary cases. To ensure that the electorate was finally identified and was not wrong about his choice in the entire race of ballot papers, he was given a clear indication: The Party of the Regions stood under number 1 almost throughout the country. It was essentially the majority of them were the election of the same party to the only party. But first, the number of voters who didn't come to the polls is huge, and that's very eloquent about the level of trust. Second, history repeats itself. At least two famous parties have announced their time in power, total and social mobilization under their banners. Where are they? As the classic said, “There are no more.” Yet, in such a breakthrough, it is not clear to many at this time what was the purpose of the killing of the organizers in these local elections. Since local self - government was illegal, so did the situation. And in today's centralization of power and resources, reform in this sensitive social sphere is still going on for a long time. Everyone will continue to sit on grants, subsidies, subsidies, transfers. And, of course, the peaks, as they were yesterday, are no longer to blame, there are only your own. Then why were they fighting so hard?Oh, my God! According to the logic of the same political purpose: to roll all mechanisms, instruments for future parliamentary elections. But it's not that simple. Inevitably, each authority faces its own risks, threats, and challenges. By the way, for their defeat, of course, it's politically appropriate, but it's known how the parliamentary majority was created, which is now working in automatic mode. Often, where there is much to think about, which decisions he is voting for. And that's where the huge problems of both society and power come from. For example. Not since the first days of independence our wise people have understood, but they can survive in Ukraine, not because of power, but despite. Already millions of our fellow countrymen are doing so, finding the opportunity to make their own bread, and the butter is still far away. Before you arrived, no one dared to intervene in this area, and you went for it. Very sharp and sensitive. Don't believe it, take another look at your tax and now the Labour Code, and a little later at the 2011 budget. This is required by thousands, millions of our voters. Many of them are under the walls of the Supreme Council today. Let's at least turn on the broadcast for them. What a barrier we are to people!? And then you'll realize that you've already taken on airtightly. Almost a year, there are tactical maneuvers. You're the masters here, you won't say a word. But power is not a goal, it's a tool, a tool for strategy. And she doesn't like it when complex problems are solved by simple breaks. That's why both the country and the voters of real change were waiting, which should finally start for people, not people tariffs, prices and so on! But it won't be long now. March, I think, not too soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. Yuri Klukkowski, surnamed, is entitled to a replica. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u12	You know, I should probably thank Chechchev's colleague for advertising me so much if what he said wasn't a lie. And lying from the rostrum of the Supreme Council is not a good thing to say. So I want to say that 45 minutes before the meeting of the working group, I was actually invited to attend this meeting. However, not as a member of the working group, but as a guest in the crowd without the right to speak. That's why I want to say that I may have taken it this way from today's speech, and in my name they want to cover up with, what's called, reforming the electoral legislation of Ukraine, and actually funding it. I would like to remind Mr. Chechchev that it would be better instead of removing my name here to repeat, to listen to the 280 amendments I made to the Local Elections Act and which were rejected by his team. Because maybe if they were taken into account, there wouldn't be this chaos you created in the elections that led to massive and systematic abuses so brutal that even observers from the SND, very favorable to the Party of Regions, couldn't call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u14	In this regard, I would like to say that one thing is to use my name as a cover, and the other is to get involved. So you'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. About the task force. I'm giving you information, Your Honor, that there was a working group meeting under the chairmanship of the President. There were invited the head of the Supreme Council, the chairman of the Committee, Alexander Omelchenko, the deputy chairman of the Committee of Jury Klukkowski, Valérie Filipenko, and the national deputy. and Pisarenko, and Filipenko, a member of the working group. After this meeting and during this meeting, I asked the President of Ukraine to be added to the working group Alexander Omelchenka, Valery Pisarenko, Yuri Klukkowski. After that, he sent a letter to the President of Ukraine. I think that the better represented the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the more perfect the draft law is likely to be. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there are more than 30 laws in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that deal directly with electoral legislation, and at least 10 laws that deal with this problem. Now, regarding the proposals made by the national deputies of Ukraine. I ask you to prepare a secretariat with appropriate assignments. And now for the presentation by Hennadia Hennadiovich Moskal. And I had a meeting this morning with Hennadi Moscal and Yuri Grimchak. Today a letter will be sent to the Attorney General’s Office to investigate the incident in a comprehensive manner. And since this is the national deputy of Ukraine, after receiving the information, you will probably need to listen to information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, from the Minister of Internal Affairs on this matter. I don't think there'll be any objections to the Supreme Council. But first the letter to the Attorney General's Office, the investigation of this issue and the information, then we'll figure out how to proceed. Obviously, there is no objection to this. Now for the Labour Code. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to seek further incentives for political opposition, nor will the Supreme Council of Ukraine view the Labour Code as a law on languages - not looking for a problem where there is no problem. And now for the law, the draft law on financing for the birth of a child. I must inform you that such a bill has been registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine long since the signing of the Sokka People's Deputy. So let's start with one bill. Then we'll think about the second one. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Dear colleagues! Here was a proposal to include a broadcast on the street. I'll put it to a vote. And I would ask the Supreme Council to determine by vote. I'm voting on a proposal to include a broadcast on the street. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:32:23]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 96, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 42, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 3. Now, pay attention, distinguished national MPs! In view of the fact that we have to consider a fairly large, sensitive and responsible question, there is such a proposal. The evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I stress, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue until 22 hours. I'm not going to take a break at 12 o'clock, but I'm going to take a break from 14 to 16 o'clock so that MPs have the opportunity to exchange their thoughts about what we've been looking at. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. Evening session until 22:00 p.m. I can't take a break at 12 o'clock. Please vote. [[10:33:27]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. I'm announcing a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code. The factions. Regional Party - 156, Timoshenko Block - 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” - 6, Communists - 25, “Block of Lithuania” - 18, non-fractional - 22. The rapporteur is the head of the Vitaly Hometicnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u16	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Televisers, and Radio Hearers! On 7 October 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Act on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft Law on the Tax Code in the first reading and adopted it as a basis by entrusting the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with other legislators of the legislative initiative to work on it and bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. Virtually every day, we held almost 100 working groups in different formats. These working groups included Ukrainian national deputies, both committee members and national deputies, who offered proposals to the committee. Of course, all meetings were held with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives of the public college of the committee, professional associations, business representatives, scientists. In fact, the committee door was open all this time. The committee received and included 4 thousand,879 comments and proposals from 136 Ukrainian national deputies, as well as from the National Bank of Ukraine, as the subject of the legislative initiative. Of these, 2,000,333 offers were rejected, 25,000,546 offers were rejected. The total table size is 2 thousand 150 pages of printed text. An electronic version of the comparative table was published on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 11, 2010. The committee has made every suggestion and is willing to work on every amendment with recommendations on one or the other of the legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the amendment. I'll call the amendment number, who insists, say we'll talk. Amendment number 1, Vladimir Yavorowski. Is he insisting? I can't see. Is there a Vladimir Yavorowski? None. Amendment 2, Sergey Teryohin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! So, basically, this meeting is being held. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we insist that all the amendments that have been introduced and counted or not be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules. In fact, my second revision. Actually, this is not a code. The Code should codify all issues related to the law. There are still laws on board this document, such as the status of the State Tax Service, such as, let's say, the only congregation for social insurance, which is essentially a tax, tax, let's say, a gardening, hops, the only congregation at the border of Ukraine, and so on and so forth. So my edit is very simple: or not to call this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u19	Microphone, please. Come on, dear fellows, join me in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u20	or make a decision on the third reading to include in this code all tax laws that are not currently included in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u22	Thank you. With regard to the issues raised, the laws on the congregation and the only payment for the general government insurance, the RRO, the proposals made by the national deputy Teryohin, according to the committee, are not tax laws and do not apply to the substance of the code. Thus, the code contains tax chapters and tax laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u23	I'll bet on the vote of amendment number two. Please identify yourself. [[10:39:00]] For 104 No correction supported. Amendment three, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that you have now put to the vote the meeting to 10 p.m. We don't have a war in Ukraine, it's declared only against business, against the Ukrainian people. As a result, they are evidently trying to win quickly. So these, this vote contradicts the Law on Rules, this right to work until the 22nds and to force most of the others, no, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is the first. Secondly, I stress that before this, in this project -- it does not meet the requirements set out in the codes -- including in the generalization and systematization of normative material, the completeness and quality of legal regulation in social relations, it is also a structure, used terminology and so on, which is provided, including the comments of expert, legal administration. And so to avoid confusion, I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to Jury Carmazin's number three vote. [[10:40:36]] For-100 No correction supported. Amendment 4 Bully, microphone, please. Is Hennady the Bull? None. Let's move on. Fifth, Sergey Teryochina’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u26	Well, respectable colleagues, well, the reporter contradicts himself. Look. What is stated here in article 1, paragraph 1.1, that this is an exclusive codex governs exclusive ones. an exhaustive list of taxes, order of administration, their rights, duties, and competence of the supervisory authorities. I ask again: Where is the State Tax Law, why has it remained outside this code? For one reason, respectable national deputies, because there are benefits and salaries for tax inspectors, taxpayers, and they're simple. Once again, these benefits and salaries are not for the taxpayers. Please include all tax laws, and please see the conclusions of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority, which insists on the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u27	Thank you. As far as the State Tax Act is concerned, we have taken all the articles in this law relating to financial sanctions, fines, administrative procedures and so on, left, practically, the structure of the tax administration in this law, because it is not the scope of the Tax Code. So, practically, your proposal, it's practically counted, but in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u28	I bet on the vote of Amendment 5, by Sergei Terjohin. [[10:42:34]] For-99 Correction not supported. Amendment six, Peter Melnik, do you insist on it? No, it doesn't. Amendment seven, Chaplin, are you insisting on it? No, it's not. Sergey Teryohin, amendment number eight is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u29	No, wait, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u30	I'm waiting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u31	So I repeat: in accordance with the Rules, I ask you to vote on all amendments taken into account or rejected if the authors insist. So I would like you to put on the subject of support or non-support for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u32	Please, the committee supports the amendment, argue the position, and the national MPs to be ready for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u33	This proposal is taken into account, and we see it in the right-hand table. So it's partially included in that part that doesn't narrow down tax legislation. We're looking at the table and we're taking the right line, the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote to vote the amendment in the right column. She's supported by a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u35	Supported by the committee, yes. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u36	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 8, it's in the right column. In the right column. Please vote. [[10:44:27]] For 248 Correction supported. Amendment to the 9th Blacksmith accounted for. Mikoli Martinenko's repairs are accounted for. Shaman's repairs count. Sergey Teryochina included an amendment. Please, Sergei Teryochina's microphone, 12, 13 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u37	Please, I would like to rediscover what to do with this. But. “accounted for” and essentially not counted. Because again, I repeat that there are many tax laws that are not included in this code. It's not a code, it's a mess. So please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 12. It's counted by the committee. Where the right column is. Please vote. It's the right column. Please vote. [[10:45:44]] For 236 Decision taken. Amendment number 13. This amendment is taken into account in the same way, we have just voted. Or. Teriochina. Let's, dear fellows, vote on the right column. Correction counted. The committee's offering to support it. I'll put to the vote, please vote, 13 amendments. [[10:46:20]] For 247 Correction accepted. 14 readjustments included. The 15th counts, Sergey Teryochina, in fact. Sergey Teryochina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u39	She doesn't count anything. There was a reference to Article 7, paragraph 7.3. This section. The essence of the law is simple that if tax laws are amended, there should be no other legal relationship in this law. Or we write a law, there, I don't know, about pregnant women in Mozambique, and we release a branch of hotels from taxes forever under such a law. So please, I want you to look at essentially 15 revisions. Not what it says is "partially counted", but put 15 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I'm going to make 15 amendments to Sergio Teryochin's editorial, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u41	Please don't support this, because the committee actually defined it, but in a different edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u42	I'd like to make up my mind. Correction of the 15th. [[10:47:45.]] For-12. No correction supported. Amendment 16, Sergey Teryochina, partially counted. Please, Teryohin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u43	Again, what's the point when there are other tax laws that are not included in the Tax Code? Please set 16 changes in support or deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! I'm putting to the vote the 16th amendment, the right column. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u45	Right column, yeah, in the committee's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u46	And then we're going to set up your edit. We made one mistake, which makes no difference. We'll get better. [[10:48:33]] For 247 The right column is counted. And now, at the request of the National MP, I'm putting to the vote the 16th amendment to Sergio Teryochin's editorial. I'd like to make a statement. You'd better vote, dear fellows. [[10:48:58]] For-98 Sergey Teryochina does not support the amendment. So the right column of Amendment 16 is taken into account in the Committee's edition. Next. Amendment by Yuri Carmazin 18, partially counted. Don't you insist on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin's microphone, please, 18 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Codex is being done extremely quickly, although I'm surprised that Homutinnik has done a great job, he has only one misunderstanding, Mr. Vitali, that it's impossible to make anything out of this Codex, you have to understand that. And your efforts to fix it is very difficult, although he tried to do it, I thank him sincerely as a human. It says here that "partially counted" but actually the main things that have to be written are not counted. I wanted to make a sound, and I suggested that we put an article like this in the paper. Tax legislation consists of the Constitution, this Code, the Customs Code in the part of the regulation of legal relations resulting from the taxation of goods through the customs border, the factor of Ukraine’s international treaties that deal with tax matters that do not conflict with this Code, I stress. Legal acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, adopted on the basis and implementation of this Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u48	You've got the text, your honors, and you've seen it. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u49	Karmazin's proposal is partial, but if there is an insistence on voting, please vote in the committee. That's to say no to Karmazin's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will put to the vote in such a sequence, first in Yuri Karmazin's edition, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it. So I'm in Karmazin's office first if the Supreme Council doesn't support it. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Amendment 18 of Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:51:37]] For-45 No correction supported Amendment number 19 Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u51	The logic of the authors regarding the rejection of this amendment is not understood at all. Its essence is that if an international agreement is made, it cannot regulate internal taxation by indirect taxes, because it is part of the sovereignty of any country. There's no such thing. This is part of the country’s constitutional sovereignty. More than that, I remind you that Mr. Azarov once stood here in this rostrum and lied in this room when he reported 96 international agreements within the single economic space. And he lied like this: he said that everything there was in the interests of the Ukrainian state, that all issues would be decided by the Supreme Council. And in fact, I remind you that in those projects, thank God, and I joined in killing them, in those projects was the delegation of the Supreme Council's sovereign tax authority to some national authorities or to the Cabinet itself. Don't make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u53	This proposal is not in line with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and international treatymaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 19 Sergey Teryochina. Please determine how to vote. [[10:53:22]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Amendment 20 Yuri Karmazin Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the question that before considering this law, it must be denunciation, and this is my legislative initiative, the agreement between the Soviet Union and Ukraine on the recognition of double taxation, this is about the outflow of our capital to Cyprus. Because of the failure of the authorities to do so, I conclude that the authorities, the government, are interested in making money go away all the time. And now we want to find them in small businesses to make up for these costs. I'm talking about the immorality of this, and in this case I suggest paragraph 3.2. “If an international treaty, which should be binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, establishes other rules than those provided for in Ukraine’s legislation, such consent shall be granted only after the provision of the law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u56	There is this text, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, regarding Cyprus, I give you the information that we had for days the Head of Parliament of Cyprus discussed this very subject. I spoke on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and received a message that a draft document would soon be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption. Dear colleagues, I mean the deal, not your document! Dear colleagues, if you would like to vote on Amendment 20 of Yuri Carmazin, please identify yourself. [[10:55:34]] For-65 Correction not supported. Yes, Royal 24, microphone, please. None. 25, Sergey Teryohin, partially accounted for, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u57	But it's not counted anywhere! Look what's written here, this is the chapter “General principles of taxation”. It is written that tax advice and clarification are part of tax law. Who told you that? This is a separate position for a tax collector to be tried by a court. Well, there's actually, well, this nihilism is actually written. My offer to take away is a consultation, an explanation. This is not tax law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u58	So, "Consultations and clarifications" are in another block and we've re-edited. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice will provide clarification and advice accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u59	And these explanations will not have the force of legal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u60	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 25 Sergio Teryochina. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:57:11]] For-63 No correction supported. Amendment 28. Sergei Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u62	Before that, I remind you once again, they were taken into account in the substance of regulation 26, 27. Please put them to the vote. Then we'll come to mine. According to the Rules, Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't break it, 26th, 27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u63	Dear, yes, please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u64	Well, first of all, 26th, 27th is not Teryochina, it's Voropeyeva and Kinaha. If they insist, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u65	Yes, Voropeiev insists on his amendment? No, it's not. Is the horses insisting on their amendment? Don't scream, please. No, it's not. It's counted. 28th, Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u66	Vladimir Mikhailovich, then reject the 28th, because it's partially accounted for, Voropeyeva, 26th. It's partially accounted for. If it is partially accounted for, the Supreme Council has to make a statement on this partial. Please, once again, do not violate the Rules, put to the vote the support of the Committee, the position of the Committee on 26 and 27 rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u67	Honorable national MPs, amendments 26 and 27 are essentially taken into account in their respective positions. Vitalia Yuriovich, should we vote them?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u68	I don't think we should vote. I don't think we should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u69	Other parts are included. Well, let's put it to a vote. Please don't scream. Please don't disturb me. We're in the process of dealing with the issue. I'll put to the vote the amendment, Amendment 26 Yuri Voropeyeva. It's essentially part of the committee. Please vote. [[10:59:21]] For 247 The same applies to an amendment that is essentially taken into account by Anatolia Kinach. I'm putting her to a vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u70	It's in the committee's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u71	It's in the committee's office. Please vote. [[10:59:58]] For 248 Decision taken. 28 amendments. Sergey Teryohin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u72	Well, it's such an impression that those who wrote "accounted for didn't count," essentially or not actually didn't read what was counted or written in the right column. What's written in the right column is an absurdity simple, it's a fiction of some, you know, sick brain. There's pearls like that, and we're going to go look at them. So in order to fix this mess in any way, please put 28 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u73	This mess, by the way, came out of the committee you're a member of. I'm voting on Amendment 28. I'd like to make up my mind. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:00:57]] For-28 No correction supported. Yes, the 30th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please. Oh, I'm sorry, 29th Sergey Vlasenka. The microphone, please, is accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u74	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I see that the amendment is taken into account. But I ask her to vote according to the Rules. Because I think she's dealing with an important enough question. Please vote and support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I ask you now, I will put to the vote Amendment 29 Sergio Vlasenka, and please support him. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u76	The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u77	Because the committee counted. [[11:01:52]] For 268. Correction counted. Amendment 30 Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, anything that happens to the original articles of this code, which define the scope of the codex, allows for a multiple interpretation of other articles of this code, is not entirely normal. And it's defined by experts as something that's unacceptable to a document like the Tax Code. In particular, attempts to systematize valid tax acts are expected to have failed. My amendment suggests changing the numbering of sections 4.2, 4. 12 times 4.1.1., 4.1.11. as sub-paragraphs should not be numbered as parts. And this is a requirement for the legislative part of this bill, which is also limping on two legs. This should be the only approach through the entire bill. And I, she's not carrying any political strain. I asked her to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u79	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 30. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:03:24]] For-60 Correction not supported. 31 Fixing Kick-Ass. Is he insisting? 32nd Vlasenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u80	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, paragraph 4.3. to which I have made an amendment, contains a list of cases where tax discrimination is not possible. And this list is complete. This means that in all other cases tax discrimination can be carried out. What is this list? It is independent of the social, racial, national, religious, and legal personality, the nationality of the individual and the place of origin of the capital and all. So that means that in all other cases you can discriminate, especially, let's say, by the sign of a sex that doesn't exist here. And the list is exhaustive, and every lawyer knows that a comprehensive list is unexploited. That's why I suggested, well first of all, that I write in the end "that" so that this list wouldn't be exhaustive, and it couldn't be discriminated against by any sign of tax discrimination being meant. So I'm asking you very much to support this amendment, because otherwise there will be taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u81	The committee rejected the amendment. At the same time, I am voting on Amendment 32. [[11:05:03]] For-78 No correction supported. Thirty-three. Chaplain, do you insist on correcting her? No, it's not. Sphinx, correction is essentially accounted for. Is there no objection? Nkmaye 35th Amendment, Sergey Teryohin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u82	Look, please, the norm is absurd in its essence. Since we have punishments, its irreversibility is recorded in other codes, there is a Code of Criminals, a Code of Administrative Violations, and a Constitution. But in that situation, as it says here, you, your respectable friends, your tax collectors can't do things like frustration and tax evasion, you can't do any of the tax amnesty that our authorities have been talking about. So it's an absurd norm, it has to be ruled out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u83	I'm betting on the 35th amendment of Sergei Teryochin. Please be sure. [[11:06:14]] Z-77 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 38, Sergey Teryohin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u84	I'm sorry, I was supported and counted 36 and 37. Please place these changes in support of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u85	If the MPs insist, the authors of these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u86	There are rules, not authors. Read the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the committee supported these amendments. At the same time, the national MP demands that they be put to the vote. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 36 people's deputies of Voropeyeva to support it. Please vote. [[11:07:11]] For 249 Correction accepted. Now, Your Honor, Amendment 37, Peter Melnik. It's counted. In view of the urgency, I am voting in favour of Amendment 37. Please vote. [[11:07:41]] For 259. The amendment is supported. 38 revisions. Teryohin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, respected radio listeners, there is a quintension of this codex. What's written here? That taxes have to be set up for fiscal convenience, that is, the government first invents some incredible cost in the budget, and it takes taxes to set it up, because it's a principle, it's a philosophy of this code. Well, stupidity doesn't get any bigger. So there's a proposal to throw this thing out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u89	I'll read this item so there's no distortion. “Social justice in tax and tax collection according to the payability of taxpayers.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to vote on Amendment 38. Please be sure. [[11:08:58]] For-60 No correction supported. Microphone, Sergey Teryochina. 39 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u91	I would ask the reporter not to mislead the room or comment very carefully. It was about fiscal adequacy when the vote went on. Now paragraph 4. 7 written completely illiterately, wrote: “The principle of social justice. The establishment of taxes and congregations according to the payability of the taxpayer.” Well, first of all, it goes against the Ukrainian Constitution, which does not allow property discrimination. And secondly, it says here that again and again the philosophy of the code of this, because it turns out that the richer the person, the less he's going to pay taxes. And by the way, the whole code goes on to say, "The richer you are, the less taxes on the state." So there is a suggestion to throw this article out at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u92	On the contrary, this code provides for a less progressive scale, and for those who earn more, a higher income tax is paid by citizens. The same applies to real estate taxation. The same is true of other positions that say that if you earn more, you have to pay more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u93	I'm betting on the 39th amendment of Sergey Teryochin. Please be sure. [[11:10:38]] For-80 Correction not supported. Amendment 40 counted. Are you insisting on her? Teryohin, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u94	Yes, I insist on her consideration, but I would like to comment on the previous talk by the reporter. And where, please, do tell us the actual taxes on passive incomes, on rants that are clearly not. People are not poor, dividend income taxes, interest income taxes, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u95	Deposits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u96	Where did they go? And why do rich people generally have a standard that dividends are not taxed to individuals that the dividends of large corporations that are exported to offshore companies are not taxed? That's the meaning of your code! So please place it in support or not to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u97	Dividends are not an object, not an object of this code, it was passed by a separate law. As for deposits, the committee decided to postpone entry into force for the 15th year. Because today the banking system is not ready for that kind of tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the 40th is taken into account by the committee. Along with it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm on my 40th amendment. It's not your amendment. The amendment of the fortieth Sergey Teryochina is considered by the committee. The author insists that this amendment be confirmed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's an amendment. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u99	[[From the Hall]] . Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u100	Well, we'll vote now, then you'll say. Now. Take down the vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Honourable Vitaly Hometicnik, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Teryochin has told you quite correctly that what you wrote down: social justice is tax and congregation taxing according to the payability of taxpayers. And the next, economic efficiency -- this should not interfere with the efficient distribution of economic resources, this is a clear violation of article 21 of the Constitution, which provides that all people are free and equal in dignity and rights. This does not mean that if a person has more platability, he has to pay more taxes. It's quite different, because of this direct violation of the Constitution, it's absolutely right that paragraphs 4.7 and 4.8 should be removed from here because this bill makes it totally unacceptable. Doesn't that make sense?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u102	Thank you. We have already voted on this amendment, so there is no need to go back unless there is another decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, the fortieth amendment of Sergey Terhochin is considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u103	Yeah, we have to move it to the right column, which is to count and move it to the right column, because I see it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u104	I therefore vote in favour of this amendment. Move it to the right of the left. [[11:14:18]] For 279 Decision taken. Yes, amendment 41 Sergio Teryochina, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, it seems that this codex was written by baron lovers. We've got all the power we need right now. You will see what it says, what is the song of the Odessa: “Economic taxation, tax administration and congregations, the amount of revenue from payments to the budget far exceeds the cost of their administration.” Wah! “Exceeds significantly”! Well, who writes codes like that? Well, to an extreme extent, when it comes to administrative efficiency, write that administrative expenditure should not exceed the revenue collected. Well, read at least some of the letters on tax law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u106	Thank you. I can only explain that, for example, local taxes and congregations, we have eliminated a dozen taxes that are ineffective, there is a congregation on the ipod and other congregations that are far more administrative than those congregations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the 41st amendment was rejected by the committee. I'm putting her to the vote. Please be sure. [[11:15:48]] For-76 No correction supported. Amendment 42, Sergei Vlasenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it is noted that the amendment is essentially taken into account. It's not counted anywhere but the other way around. If it is, as stated in the conclusions and arguments, that it is included in chapter XIX, paragraph 14, it will mean that we will have a conflict between paragraph 4.9. and chapter XIX, paragraph 14. So we need to use the same terminology in one article of the codex as in another. It can be either with the words “only those” or without such words. And so in one text it's with those words, and in another text without those words, it's probably wrong in terms of the legislative technique. It is therefore necessary to determine whether to apply these words in two cases or not to apply them at all, rather than to break the text, allowing everyone to interpret these rules into their own reasoning, having two terms that essentially resolve the same issues, regulate the same legal relationship, but which are formulated in a slightly different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u109	I'm voting on Amendment 42. Please identify yourself. [[11:17:11]] For-61 It's not working. 43 amendment, Sphenov, rejected. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 44 amendment, Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u110	Illiteracy again is the norm. It says that taxes cannot be changed later than six months before the beginning of the new budget, attention, period. Well, at least we need to know the basics: what the budget period is. There's an inter-budgetary period, there's a budget period, there's an internal budget period, it's consistent with the Constitution, a period that doesn't match the budget period. This should be written “budget year” or according to the Constitution “another period”. Well, read the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u111	Sergey Anatolyovich, we lacked your knowledge on the committee, so you probably never came to the task force meeting to help us with these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u112	I'm betting on the 44th amendment of Teryochin, please. [[11:18:24]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Amendment 45 counted. 46 amendment, Sergey Teryohin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u113	Once again, there is no meaning in this record: “equivalence and convenience of payment”. Imagine what is the uniformity and convenience of payment? Equality is every day to pay a tax? Or is it the convenience of paying a tax once a year? Why should such songs be written in the Tax Code, for which a violation in prison can be overturned? Please support my position upon exclusion of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u114	I'm betting on the vote 46th amendment of Sergey Teryochin. [[11:19:24]] For-81 Correction not supported. 47 amendment, Teryohin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u115	The corresponding article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 92, was badly rewrote. Why was this done? I don't know. I guess I didn't have enough knowledge to write this project. Suggested to delete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u116	I'm betting on the vote for the 47th amendment, Sergei Terjehochin. [[11:20:07]] For-74. No correction supported. Amendment 48. Sergei Teryochin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u117	You know, right now I'm looking at this mosaic that's happening in our room right now, and you know, I'm starting to feel like the sooner they're going to take this mess, the faster this authority gets pizza. So, I'm happy to take off all the further changes I've made, and I'm not going to be a part of this baboon tank.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Sergey Teryohin doesn't insist on 48 amendments, we don't vote on it. Yuri Carmazin, 49th Amendment Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u119	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am in this case - Teryohin was absolutely right, we did not listen to him in vain - and now, in this case, part 4.13 of article 4 I propose that we put it in this version: “No payments are made to the state, local taxes and congregations, which are not covered by the Code or which have been made later than six months before the start of the new budget period in which the new rules and rates are to be applied. Moreover, when we consider this code, I would like to make it clear that we are now considering and you are going to make a budget to violate Ukraine's Budget Code, Ukraine's Budget Code Act. That's why those people waiting for us there need to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'm taking 49 of Yuri Carmazin's amendments. Please be sure. [[11:22:25]] For-69 No correction supported. 50th. The miller does not insist. Black will 52, you insist, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u121	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it says here that is essentially counted, but there is no such concept as “accounted for essentially”. In addition, my amendment is completely the opposite of paragraph 4.14. It says here that tax periods are set according to the need to fill the budget. While I demand to set them up, above all, on the basis of the convenience of tax payers, because taxpayers may not have any money at all. And we suggest that we set up just when they're gone, which is fines, bribes, and a blow to their business. So I demand that I put and vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u122	I'm betting on the vote of 52 of Alexander the Blacksmith's amendment. [[11:23:40]] For-66 Correction not counted. So there's a right column. Then there's the 53rd Amendment of Yuri Carmazin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! The substance of this amendment is very simple, by the way, it has been highlighted in both the Legal Administration and the Expert Office that all taxes are imposed and tax and congregation cancellations and benefits are granted to payers by the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and Rural, Village, City Councils in accordance with this code. This is my key position, Mr. Vitali, to this Code, and then to this Code: “and within their powers as defined by the Constitution and the Code.” Not the way it's written right now. In fact, it is written about that, but the code has been deleted and they have already gone out in other legislation. Then the Tax Code doesn't make sense at all. You realize that if it's a Tax Code and if it's a Codex, it has to be written exactly as Carmazin suggests. I suggest you agree to do so much better.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u124	I fully agree with you in this case and offer to support our colleague of the People's Deputies of Carmazin in this part. In fact, we counted essentially. But I suggest you take it from Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to support full amendment 53 by Yuri Karmazin. Please vote. Please vote, the committee fully supports. [[11:25:44]] For 290 Decision taken. Yes, Yuri Kostenko, this amendment is included. Is the Saint insisting? No, it's not. Sergey Terhochin withdrew his amendment. Chamanov insists? No, it's not. Mikola Martinenko? No, it's not. Sphinx? No, it's not. Royal? No, it's not. 61st Royal? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 62, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, this is the 62nd amendment. The point is that the content of Article 6 “The concept of taxation and the congregation” should be translated into Article 14, where the definition of taxes is referred to, is again for the normal legislative technique, the legislative technique provided for in the Code, and this is the first time. And secondly, I'd like to support that, Mr. Vitaly. And secondly, I would like to draw your attention to article 121 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Second Rules, which says that after the completion of the consideration of proposals and amendments to the relevant article of the bill, the Supreme Council is voting on an article as a whole. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for legal clarity, so that I don't go to court again, because I already have two cases with you, Adam Martinyuk on the case, with the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u127	Thank you! Dear colleagues, about 62 amendments does the committee support?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u128	Overruled, the offer is rejected, because that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u129	The committee has refused, as the MP has urged me to put this amendment to the vote, and now I ask you to prepare for another vote. Yes, the 62nd amendment is being voted on. [[11:27:59]] Z-62 Ladies and gentlemen, only 62 have supported the deputies, so the decision is not supported. And now, honourable colleagues, in view of the insistence I will now put to the vote in the entire article 1-5, we have considered them as amended. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on voting 1-5 with the amendments that have been taken into account. Please vote. [[11:28:52]] For 256 1-5 articles voted. Yes, article 64, Voropeyev, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u130	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u131	No, it's not. Blacksmith — 65 Articles? No, it's not. Melnik, 66th? Is it Blackwolf? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u132	My amendment is to add to the word “taxable is compulsory and unconditional payment” and the word “neglect”. Because if that's not the case, I don't know what they thought when they wrote that it narrows down the term "tax". Because the tax is a non-target payment. Otherwise it's going to be the target congregations, that's what it's going to be. So this essentially editorial regulation has to be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u133	I'm betting on a vote of 65. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:01]] For-33 No correction supported. Yes, amendment 68. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 69th? No, it's not. The '70s? No, it's not. Yeah, let's keep going. Osaka, 76th, insists? No, it's not. What the hell are they doing? It's a 77th holiday, is it? No, it's not. 78th, Carmazin, do you insist? No, it's not. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will now put to the vote the 6th article, taking into account the amendments, please prepare for the vote. May I have your attention, fellow officers? Dear colleagues, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] I bet on a vote of 6 articles, 6 articles. We vote on the 6th article. Dear colleagues, we vote on the 6th article. Change the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm talking to you again. If you need a circus, let's have a circus. If we need to talk about it, let's talk about it. We considered the amendments to article 6. Now we need to vote on a total of 6 articles. I called off the vote. Because we didn't vote, we did the show. I am voting for the return to article 6. Calm down. Please vote. Voting is about a return to consideration of article 6. [[11:32:28]] For 261 We're back. I am now voting on the adoption of the 6th article, taking into account the amendments that we have considered. [[11:32:51]] For 251 We accepted the 6th article. So let's move on, dear fellows. Yes, Blackwolf, 83 articles. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u134	Dear friends, there is a proposal to make certain restrictions on the adoption of new tax laws to increase taxes for at least the next five years. Again, the committee says it's a narrowing down of the legislator's rights. But we have to promise our citizens some little stability. You don't want 5 years, let's do 3, let's do it a year. But I assure you, right now this is the only thing that's going to be accepted, there's going to be a new tax hike, there's going to be a new tax hike, there's going to be new taxes. There's nothing else I can explain about this moratorium. So once again, I insist on introducing a five-year moratorium on the emergence of new taxes, not on increasing or reducing old ones, but on the emergence of new ones. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u135	I'll bet on the vote 83 of the amendment. [[11:34:30.]] For-7. Correction not accepted. I'm just asking the secretariat to identify who did this to the National MPs, and we're going to calculate the wages for the workers they care about so much, to put the forests in place, and to remove these works of art, from the salaries of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Now I'm going to put to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, an offer to calculate from the salary of the people's deputies on a tenfold scale for this disgrace that they create in the session hall. It's ten-fold. Please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:35:20.]] For 244 Decision taken. Now, if you'll excuse me! I will now put to the vote articles 7 and 8, taking into account the proposals that we have voted on. Please vote, Articles 7 and 8. Ten times the size of a trickster like that. And then you'll go to court with Sass. Yeah. [[11:35:51]] For 246 Decision taken. Or let him put up a ladder and get it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Let's go to the 9th Amendment. For more information, see Chamanov insists? No, it's not. Martinenko? No, it's not. Yes. Guriev? No, it's not. Arzhivetin, do you insist? Stanislav Arjevitin? Amendment 93. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen! My suggestion was that there was a tax in the country for a long time now, that is, a congregation for a trust fund called an initial, regulatory and special one. It has existed for many years, according to the law that we have passed with you on a fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals. So if there's a tax in the country, why shouldn't it be here, listing all the taxes that we're making? I'm looking at the committee's conclusion that this is in contravention of the President's tax reduction programme. Well, I don't understand that comment. There is a tax, there is a tax in the country for 10 years. Why is he not on the list?Oh, my God! I don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u137	This congregation is not subject to the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u138	I'm betting on a vote of 93. [[11:37:42]] For-21 Correction not supported. Yes, 94th, Greesak. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Anatoly's Seminomist, 95th? No, it's not. Is he insisting? Oh, I'm sorry. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u139	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This amendment isn't just mine, it's an amendment to the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. It refers to the social protection of those who, at the cost of their lives and health, practically saved Ukraine and all Europe from the global consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. We cannot with you close our eyes to the fact that even the laws adopted in the Supreme Council are not being implemented today simply because there is not enough money to enforce these laws. And I don't agree with the committee's decision that this doesn't match the president's tax reduction program. The president promised social protection to our citizens, and to the Chernobylites in particular. Therefore, I insist on voting on this amendment and ask for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the 95th amendment was rejected by the committee. [[11:39:05]] For-46 Correction not supported. 96th. Don't insist. 97th, Saints. Don't insist. Martinenko, 98th. No, it's not. Shamanov? No, it's not. Blackwolf, 101 revisions. I'm sorry, Your Honor, I'm going to put an article on the vote. There is a vote on the 9th article to be adopted, taking into account the amendments that we have supported. Please vote. [[11:39:52]] For the 250. We accepted the article with you. 101 readjustment, Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u141	Dear friends, I'd like to point out that we're writing down local real estate taxes. First of all, the questionable substance of the tax itself. Secondly, we are likely to vote, as it is suggested, not before 2015 to put it into effect on the grounds that it does not have a real estate register. So that's not going to add anything to local taxes, and I suggest we exclude it from the list of local taxes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u142	I'm betting on a vote of 101. [[11:40:53]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Amendment 104, Koshin. Are you insisting on her? I can't see. So, Dutch, 106th? No, it's not. All right, Dutch, 108. Don't insist. These are the adjustments. Yes, dear colleagues, we now have to vote on the 10th article. May I have your attention, please? I bet on the vote on article 10, taking into account the amendments that are included. Please vote. [[11:41:39]] For 253 Decision taken. Yeah, we're still on the clock. 116 amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Vlasenko's microphone, 115 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like this amendment confirmed by a vote in the room, on the one hand. And on the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to you, I appreciate that you have begun to vote in an article, but I would like to point out that articles 1-5 and 6-7 have not been voted in an article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I've put to the vote 1-5, all the articles immediately. This is also allowed, and they were voted on. They were voted, I beg of you. Dear colleagues, don't look for clues where they don't exist. Dear colleagues, Amendment 115 Sergei Vlasenka is included, but he asks that we confirm this amendment in the session room to prove that he put it right and proposed it. Please vote. [[11:43:09]] For 261 Correction accepted. 116. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to draw your attention to whether you've just given an urgent protocol assignment, people are now in the area, they're speaking. Turn on the silencers to make these microphones go deaf. Shame on the state to do so, democracy in 2010! It's feudalism! This second time, so far no broadcast has been sent to the area, it's disrespect for this people. I'm talking to those who have just usurped power in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u146	Yes, po. I'm sorry about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u147	It's not always gonna be like this. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this isn't always going to happen, this is the first time. As for the correction, my correction is, as always, correct. It applies to the content of part two of article 11 “Special tax regime” – a system of measures that determines the specific order of taxation of individual categories of host entities, as well as of the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u148	Yes, I'm putting the 116th amendment to the vote. And I'd like to ask the deputies to make a substantive amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:44:46]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is no technical capability in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suppress anything. If you want me to give you an installation, I'll give you an installation: don't be deaf. If it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u149	Translating.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u150	Regarding the broadcast, I put this proposal to the vote, the Supreme Council is not supported, unfortunately. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I now pay attention to the vote, please note, article 11 for the adoption of article 11, taking into account that the amendments are included, article 11. Please vote. [[11:45:38]] For 259. Article accepted. Yes. Vlasenko, 133rd amendment, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u151	Yes, thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. This amendment is not included, it is rejected, but I ask that it be taken into account, since it is in line with article 12.3. 9, which is now talking about the possibility of issuing methodological recommendations to the central authority of the public tax service for filling out tax returns from local taxes. As this article puts it, it means that the central authority of the State Tax Service can issue such methodological recommendations for its consideration at any time when it considers that there is such a need. I propose to specify this and point out that such recommendations may be issued either at the request of a local tax payer or at the request of an appropriate local authority, rather than simply at the request of a central authority of the State Tax Service. So I ask you to support and consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u152	My previous proposal, it was taken into account, it refers to the deletion of this item at all. So I think you have to accept my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u153	I'm betting on the 133rd amendment. [[11:47:23]] For-36 No correction supported. Amendment 137, Sergey Vlasenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u154	Thank you again, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This amendment refers to paragraph 12.3.12, which states that to whom the individual benefits of local taxes and congregations cannot be fixed. And that includes individual legal persons and individuals entrepreneurs -- that's all. This means that individuals who are not entrepreneurs can be set individual tax rates for local taxes and congregations. This is totally unwarranted, and it is not clear why this is done. That is why I have proposed to add where it is written “the natural persons of entrepreneurs” and “the natural persons who are not entrepreneurs”. And in this way, we don't even allow the individual tax rates of local taxes and assemblies to be set for anyone. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u155	You're absolutely right. That's why my previous proposal was to rule out this item, and it's counted by the committee. So your offer will again be pointless.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u156	I'm betting on the vote of the 137th Sergey Vlasenka. [[11:48:50]] For-50 No correction supported. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote 12 articles to adopt it. I'm betting on the vote of the 12th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u157	Take off the vote, please. 140 amendments, I think it's counted. You don't have any questions. Take down the vote. Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable national deputies have certainly done much to improve this codex. But these terms. This is about the fact that the official publication of the decision to establish local taxes and congregations is a legal and regulatory act on taxation of local taxes, which takes effect with regard to the periods provided for in part twelve, three, four. That part provides for the August 15th term, if you remember what was abandoned by the government. But this term is not consistent with article 27 of the Budget Code, which is, in this case, definitive. That's July 15th. That's how we steal from people for another month. That's why I suggest we go back to this or switch votes, Mr. Vitalia, and let's have one rule: July 15th, and then this will not violate the constitutional rights of citizens. Because this is now largely because of the violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which at the time of the adoption of new laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u159	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u160	We believe that if the law is passed, it must work. And it's this proposal that paragraph 12.5 confirms that. So please support my offer, if that's what you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! The committee's amendment is taken into account. In response to the pressure of the national MP, I am voting on the proposal to support 140 amendments to Vitali Homutinika, please vote. [[11:51:20]] For 233 Correction counted. Now, honourable colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the vote on Article 12, taking into account the amendments we have agreed on. Please vote. [[11:51:46]] For 241 Article accepted. Now let's move on. For more information, see Article 13, there are no amendments, so we have every reason to put it to the vote. Puts to the vote article 13, please vote. [[11:52:24]] For 248 Decision taken. Article 14, Shamanov, do you insist? No, it's not. Tishenko? No, it's not. Carmazine, 143, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u162	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I remind you that by this time thousands of people are standing under the Supreme Council, protesting this shameful document. But there's no broadcast for these people, it's not normal. This is the first time. I remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we have already violated the valid budget code, which I have just mentioned. And I insist that you put it back on -- even though this may be your personal order -- about connecting the broadcast. This has always been the case when they were in opposition to the Region, now something has changed, I don't know what, although the Rules are the same. In my amendment 143, I propose to delete from there the terms of which are commonly known, as well as the terms used in other legal acts. That is, an analysis of the terms in article 14. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment 143 by Yuri Karmazin. [[11:54:07]] For-50 No correction supported. Amendment 144. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remind you that we don't have any broadcasts on the street, and I remind you that the people in front of the square are smothered by the services of Ukraine that exist on our taxes to the citizens of Ukraine. Because of this, it is a nuisance and the fact that you have removed the control of the Supreme Council over the Ukrainian Security Service by one stroke, you have not even understood this, by deleting Article 31 of the BAF Act, is also a disgraceful thing. I think the people are going to give it an assessment. I insist that we vote in favour of my amendment 144, where it is divided into two groups of terms left over and placed in article 14 on the definition of new terms that are not given in any valid legal acts, including those resulting from the ratification of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u165	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 144. [[11:55:39]] For-61 No correction supported. Amendment 145 Carmazine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Nothing's changed, you're not giving an instruction on how to turn on the broadcast. Nothing has changed, and security forces are not allowing the command to stop deafening on radio microphones. They cannot properly carry out peace congregations, I emphasize that this is not a political action. We didn't bring people out there, we didn't incite people to an all-U.S. strike. But you will force us to do so, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we continue to do the same, we will call for an all-U.S. strike against that war that you declared to the Ukrainian enterprise. You can't do that. With regard to 145 articles, I propose to apply the same principles of text numbering after the numbering of parts, using only numbers, not letters as in part 14.1.122. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please respond to comments about the violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! I'll bet you 145 on Yuri Carmazin's amendment. And while you're voting, I'm informing you, dear fellows, that we have no relation to deafening, that we don't allow people to express themselves, we don't. The Supreme Council did not support the inclusion of the broadcast that I can do. [[11:57:13]] For-37 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to move on to 147. Alexandra Blackwolf microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u168	Dear friends! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, we can still contact the security services with a request that they didn't make a mistake. And secondly, we can put the question of broadcasting to the vote every time, because maybe the thoughts of the MPs have changed. You've come back to these questions over and over and over and over again, and I think we can and now we can. Now I'd like to say 147 amendments. It is rejected by referring to the Law on Accounting. But it's the Tax Code, there can't be references to other laws without explaining them. We can do this the way we do it in that active article, but we can do 99 percent of what is stated in this code, not write it out, but refer directly to the laws in force, but we don't do it. So let's keep some consistency of the document, and I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u169	I'll bet you a vote of 147. [[11:59:00]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Yes, leluk 148th. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 149th. Hairy, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u170	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, is an amendment to article 14.1.7 that defines the concept of an appeal and indicates that, including the proceedings of a judicial charge, it is regulated by this code. I want to remind the honourable authors that they can't regulate the rules of material law, that's the first time. Secondly, if we're talking about the court's contention of the appeal proceedings, I want to remind everyone that the court in Ukraine is acting in accordance with the procedural codes, not the Tax Code. So to throw out, I only suggested adding one to the order and deadlines set by this code or by procedural legislation. If we do not have a reference to procedural law, this means that when hearing the case, the court should not be governed by an administrative judiciary code, but should be governed only by this code, in which not all procedures are mentioned. It's a completely formal thing, I don't understand why it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u171	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u172	So the appeal procedure is clearly prescribed in chapter two, and I think it's inappropriate to take your proposal into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u173	I'll bet you a vote of 149. [[12:00:48]] For-44 Correction not supported. Amendment 151. Sergei Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, with this amendment, I would like to avoid any abuse of the sale of assets and to specify that this article only refers to assets that are in a tax mortgage and are not simply in a tax mortgage, but for which a court permit is applicable. So the only thing that matters is that we don't have any abuse during the asset sale process. But again, for completely incomprehensible reasons, all of this is thrown out. Perhaps someone is putting in place a mechanism for abuse during the sale of assets, ignoring the availability of court decisions and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the 151th Amendment of Sergey Vlasenka. [[12:01:55]] For-48 No correction supported. Amendment 154 Sergey Vlasenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u176	153, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u177	153rd, please. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u178	153th is counted, but I'm asking her to confirm it by voting in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u179	Well, respectable colleagues, we should, well, we should, so let's vote. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 153, which is counted by the committee. Please vote in favour of this amendment. The same training process takes place, in accordance with the Rules. [[12:02:42]] For 268. Correction supported. Please, 154 revisions. Sergei Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this amendment is also intended to prevent abuses involving the use of issues of unreliable debt. That's why I'm asking her to support me. I don't understand why she did it again. It's a technical amendment. Why isn't it accepted? I don't get it. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u181	I'm betting on the 154th amendment of Sergei Vlasenko. [[12:03:25]] For the 17th. No correction supported. Vlasenko's microphone, amendment 155.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the 155 is focused on the following. Ukraine’s current legislation divides the concept of mortgages and mortgages and establishes certain features of mortgages. Despite the fact that the concept of a mortgage is a broader concept than a mortgage, but every time we write in the laws, we always write mortgages, in the parentheses of mortgages. That's the way I'm going to propose, and here I'm going to go, so we can understand that the mortgage doesn't come out of this legal relationship, and this article clearly regulates the mortgage issue. That is why I propose after the words “instigator” in parentheses to add a “payee” and passed on to mortgages in the “ mortgage”. Then again, it's not clear. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u183	I'm betting on the 155th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u184	It's in the committee's office. By the way, we don't understand why you never came to the task force, and today you're breaking all these questions. We could do a lot of things in the line of work. [[12:04:38]] For the 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u185	The decision is not taken. Yes, Guriev. Is he insisting on the amendment? No, it's not. Let's go. You're an asshole? No, it's not. Chaplain, 160 revisions. No, it's not. Yeah, Melnik, 162? No, it's not. Carnivore, 163 C.E. Blackwolf, 164. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u186	Dear friends, once again, it's about what's happened. We allow ourselves in one chapter of the Tax Code to refer to other laws, not by quoting them, but by sending them. Well, there can't be references to other laws like that. We have to clearly write it down. And that's what I suggest you write. So I ask you to support my offer. Thank you. Moreover, it is fully in line with what is written in the Constitution, and I ask that you include a broadcast to the area before the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u187	I'm betting on the 164th Amendment of Alexander Crnovlenka. [[12:05:55]] For-40 Correction not accepted. 165th. Lutsky, do you insist? No, it's not. Voropeyev, 167th. No, it's not. Sandler, 168th. Sandler, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u188	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Here's the second microphone, I'll be in this one. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I am in charge of section VI of the draft Tax Code of Ukraine, which deals with the introduction of the characteristics of taxation of oil products used by domestic oil companies as raw materials for the production of ethylene. The amendments are taken into account by the committee and, in fact, by the committee. However, since the definition of these terms in the Code is contained in Chapter I of the General Positions, it is also necessary to provide for those terms which directly relate to the implementation of the above-mentioned features. Therefore, I would ask the National Deputies to consider Amendment 168 in view of the fact that it is essentially technical and merely reveals the definition of the term used in Chapter VI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u189	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u190	Committee position denied. But given that we have taken Sandler’s proposals into account in the following articles, I think it would be appropriate to support the national MP and make the term “vescendentary” clear. I mean, it's an offer to support the Sandler People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, the committee's offering to support this repair, isn't it? That's why I'm voting for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u192	No, I'd like to support you, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u193	Not the committee, but the committee head proposes his point of view. So I vote in favour of Amendment 168, please vote. [[12:08:17]] For 218. Correction not supported. Let's move on. Correction not supported. Yeah, yeah. Amendment 169. Well, we'll get to you in a minute and you will. Well, what's the schedule for? We're following the rules. Well, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u194	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remind you that the Rules are the law of Ukraine, even the one who was raped. Because of these amendments, which are meant to be taken into account, if there are comments by national deputies, they have the right to ask questions about disagreements with them. That's why I have great respect for the Hometics, who have done everything they can to make this law better, but their 161th amendment, its 169th amendment, is causing great-great observations. Why? Because he wrote in 161 of the amendment that the budget grant is no longer a budget grant, it's a production grant from the budget. It's something so new. There is no such thing in any European country! That's why we have to go back to the first reading, the budget grant. With regard to budgetary compensation, there is also such wisdom that it is simply made in 166 amendments, which are included, are also made simply to dictate tax administrations. Well, you can't do that, Mr. Vitaly! Under yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! Amendment 161, 166 is counted by the committee. As the national MP insists, I will now put to the vote an offer of support, support for Amendment 161. The author is Homutinic. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u196	We agreed to this terminology with the Ministry of Finance to comply with the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u197	Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[12:10:34]] For 245 Correction counted. Now it's 166. It is also considered by the committee, but in response to the insistence of Yuri Karmazin, I will put to the vote on the confirmation of Amendment 166. Please vote. [[12:11:03]] For 241 Correction counted, i.e. supported. Let's move on. 169th. Shevchuk insists? 170, no. 172nd, Spanov. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 171st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 171st amendment, all of a sudden, contrary to the 116th Rules, which states that the bill adopted in the first reading cannot be amended, new focus is emerging. It already meets the criteria, instead of writing: “Big payers are assigned to the category according to the criteria established by the central authorities of the State Tax Service”, it reads: “Of all the activities in the last successive tax quarters above 500 million dollars, or the total amount paid to the state budget of the taxes on payments controlled by the State Tax Office for the same period exceeds 12 million dollars.” Why are we doing this? Suddenly, there will be this terrible devaluation that will come after the adoption of this codex and the collapse of the budget. Which is already going on for 100 billion dollars. What will happen then? Then we don't have to fasten these.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u199	I can explain my amendment. Indeed, in the first edition, the term “big tax payer ” was based on the central authority of the State Tax Office. But this term is directly related to the terms of the checks, because for large taxpayers, we've done a little bit more of a test term, for everyone else, is a reduced term. So we wrote 500 million dollars so that the DPA wouldn't put 100 million dollars or 50 dollars there, and it didn't make almost all of the businesses big and there would be other verification terms for everyone. So I think it's an amendment to protect businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Oh, thank you, because otherwise we give the authority to set up tax structures. Thank you. 172nd, Spanov. Don't insist. 173rd, Jaroslav Jojik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u201	Dear Vitaly Yuriovich! Well, first of all, I want to say that it would be logical in the text of the law to provide for the definition of a large, medium and small taxpayer. The previous text identified an average tax payer with two criteria, not only the volume of implementation, but also the number of employees. In today's report, only the only criterion for a large taxpayer is the scope of the tax. Do you not think that the number of employees, namely, my amendment proposes that the number of employees be defined as 300, is also a very serious factor in taking them into account when determining a large taxpayer? And I also have this request that we enter a classification of both a large and a medium and a small taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u202	As far as the number of persons is concerned, there are 70 employees, such as grain traders, but the circulation that takes place in a year is more than a billion dollars. So the circulation should be the main criterion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u203	I'm betting on a vote of 173. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:15:09]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Yes, Bondarenko insists? No, it's not. School? I can't see. Arjovitin, 176th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the term "expense" and you understand that taxation is a key term for all taxes. In the editorial that reads the first version today, this is the entire abracadabra that the previous MPs wanted to remove, but the committee rejected them. So I suggested another way, which is to describe what costs are more clearly for taxpayers. Because in this edition, as recorded today, there may be a double treatment of taxpayers, which is cost. So I suggested that the cost is the sum of any costs that are incurred to compensate for the cost of work and services that are provided by the taxpayer for their activities, clearly, clearly and clearly, in order to avoid double-counting, what is the cost of taxing. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u205	We think it's correctly spelled out in the first response, so the request is to support the committee's proposal, that is to say reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u206	I'm betting on a vote of 176. [[12:16:51]] For -14 Correction not supported. 177, Voropeyev, no. Then the adjustments are taken into account. June 181 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u207	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, before calling, to support my amendment, I still wanted to ask you, why don't you take a break? So this is the first one, and the second one, why is there no broadcast to the area? I ask you to answer, and at the same time please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u208	Let's support the amendment first, and then we'll answer. I'm betting on the vote amendment of the Blackwolf 181, the committee rejected it. What's that? [[B in m in s a l in]] But please find out, I can't. [[12:17:42]] For -14 Correction not supported. Now, dear colleagues, about why we don't take a break. The Supreme Council of Ukraine voted to work without interruption at 12 p.m. and to work at the evening meeting until 22 p.m. This is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for the broadcast, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support this proposal, which I put to the vote. Yes, Voropeiev, 182, you insist, don't you? What's that? What is the correction? Well, it's not on the committee, I can't put what's not on the committee, you know? Well, I get it, well! So let me comment, what's the correction? That's not true. I have a 183 right now. She's not here at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, well, I can't discuss it when she's gone. Well, that's how the committee had to work in the task force. Well, I can't, dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please tell me, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, my proposal was precisely about defining a separate unit, because the committee sent in its decision that this separate unit was clearly defined by the Civil Code of Ukraine. So, what I'm saying is that the Civil Code is very narrowly defined as what a "separate unit" is. For example, there could be a balance in a separate unit, there could be no balance -- the Civil Code doesn't answer that. Moreover, if you look at the End of the Law, it provides an entirely different definition of a separate unit than the current civil code. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u210	Vitali Juryovich, why did this amendment fail?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u211	We didn't get those amendments. All the proposals made by the national MPs who came at the right time, all in the table. Whoever didn't make it, "was late," I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u212	Right. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 186th, Spinov, insists? No, it's not. 187th, Gorina. No, it's not. Kolechenko, 189. Bondarenko, 190. Yes, Kinach, 191. Konovaluk, 192. Kunchenko, 193. Shevchuk, 194. Voropeyev, 195. Voropeyeva microphone, 195 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u213	I would like to draw your attention to the difference between the definition of the economic activity established by the Committee and that proposed by me. The difference is that I propose to replace the word “profit” with the word “income”. What I'm worried about in this case is I think it's worrying all the entrepreneurs. Which is what a simple guy, a tax inspector, would come to any business and say, "You had an operation. You didn't get any profit from this operation. If you have not earned a profit, you cannot charge all the costs of this operation to gross costs because it is not an economic activity of this operation.” From my point of view, it is a very dangerous thing to allow tax administration employees to artificially vary in gross expenditure for each enterprise. That's why I insist on my application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u214	Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u215	The committee referred to the definition in the Code of Masters. Perhaps the Ministry of Finance would have thought about this terminology.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u216	I'll bet you a vote on the 195th amendment. [[12:22:02]] For 217 Correction not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] In view of your insistent demand, I am voting for the return to amendment 195. At the committee's suggestion. [[12:22:49]] For 251 We're back. Now I'm voting on the 195th amendment. I think you should support your colleague. [[12:23:09]] For 249 Correction accepted. Amendment 196. Kostenko? Oh, no? 197th, Lutsky? Oh, no? Spinov, 198th, no. Bondarenko, 199th, no. Next, Chonvolenko, 201, please, and 202 there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u217	Dear friends! What's 202, 201, and 202, is going to be separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u218	No, I'm saying another 202, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u219	Oh, yeah, that's right, 201. First of all, we define in some articles of this draft code, in others we send it to another legislation. We've just sent complex terms that should be deciphered to the Accounting Act, and now we're decoding simple terms of "deposit" and all that. So I think all of these articles have to be deleted because they don't carry any load, but they do make the Tax Code a thick Talmud that's not comfortable to use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u220	It's not simple terms, it's terms used in taxation, it's a receivable and it's a deposit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u221	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 201. [[12:24:37]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Microphone, Alexandra Blackwolf, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u222	Let's continue the discussion again, these are really simple terms that are also in other laws. If we referred to other laws in the preceding article of this law, we are now beginning to decipher it. And yet again, these are much simpler terms than what was used before we sent them to other laws. Is there no other law in the concept of a receivable? What is not in the dictionary of foreign words? What is not in the dictionary of Ukrainian words? We don't know what the receivable is, do we give any other interpretations? Then on what basis? So once again, this is a waste of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u223	We have a definition of "deposit" in the taxation of deposits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u224	I'll bet you 202 votes. [[12:25:44]] For-13. No correction supported. 204 revisions. Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u225	Once again, we didn't know what the deposit was, we didn't know what the receivables were and everything. I say again, it's empty. But that's not the problem, I'd like to pay attention to how carelessly this code has been written and, by the way, how careless the committee has worked. Because in some places we're giving detailed decryption, and in others, we're sending it to other laws. Either let's give everywhere, or let's send everywhere, you can't do that, I say again. And what's more, the link, it's in other laws, it's in another lecture. That's how we make the laws, no, we don't. So in one sector law it's going to be written like this, and in this it's going to be taught in another way, what it's going to be like and what it's going to look like again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u226	I'll bet you 204 votes. [[12:26:58]] For-9 Correction not supported. So, Dutch, 205. Don't insist. Bondarenko, 206. No, it's not. She's a blacksmith. 207th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u227	Once again, everyone knows exactly what dividends are, it doesn't require decryption in this law. Besides, I want to make it clear, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the hall is practically empty, there are no four deputies here. We can re-register now, see how many empty places, that's the first. Secondly, we can't change the rules in the session room that require a break. That's why we work in an empty hall, because we're breaking the laws that we're about to pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u228	I'm telling you, if you've had your work done, go get some rest. On the hall, I'm looking at the hall. I'm betting on a vote of 207. Take it easy, please. [[12:28:08]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. Yes, 208, Sphinx. No, it's not. That's right, Klimenko 210. No, it's not. Bondarenko 211. No, it's not. Klimenko 212. No, it's not. So Conovaluk 214. Don't insist. 215th Storm. 216th Storm. So 219, Alexander Blackwolf microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u229	Same again. In this article we define the concept of “income”. What, before that there was no such definition? But then again, I go back to the really complicated articles that referred to the accounting account, to the Accounting Act. That's why we didn't write it there, but we sent it there. Thank you for your attention. Please support my amendment. And it's a waste to rule out this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u230	219 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:29:26]] For-9 Correction not supported. Yes, the 222nd Saint. 223th. 224th. 225th and. What is the correction? What is the correction? Arjevitina's microphone. Arjevitina’s microphone. Your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I've also made a claim on what is the emission revenue? Because in this treatment, which there is, it's completely incomprehensible. Considering that according to the law, emission income is not taxed on income. Then it is not clear why we leave the bill, such as the reverse repurchase rule? And then it's spread to one issuer by investment funds, what's selective about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u232	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u233	I don't see what Mr. Arjewittin is doing right now. I don't see it in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u234	Well, unfortunately, I don't have that correction for yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u235	We work in the same house. Even within a month and a half, you could at least go in and look at your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u236	Stanislaw Mikhailovich, come on. 227 is your amendment, please. It's counted, really. 229, yours, 229th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u237	Yeah, 227 counts. 229th. Ladies and gentlemen, what is now being introduced is the first time that there should be a tax, that is, a normal interest rate, and what is a “normal interest rate”, which is probably not going to be dealt with here today. It's going to be taxing something like an average hospital temperature. There's going to be a lot of abuse, whether in banks or in the Tax Inspectorate. And figure out what today's interest rate is on credit. For example, today’s crisis, the suspension of credit. What is today a “normal interest rate”? Next. What are the “standard conditions” on which they appear? It's not in the law. So I think this term needs to be either clearly prescribed or deleted so that there's no abuse in the banking system or in the tax system. Thank you. Please delete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u238	The vote is amended by 229 Stanislav Arjevitina. [[12:32:08]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. And 230? No, it's not. 231st? Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished representatives of the government, the content of my proposal is that there are very many problems in today's fact in clearing up imported products when it's defined as so-called, customs value. This question is completely out of order. There are cases where the customs value that is determined by the customs authorities of Ukraine exceeds the wholesale and retail prices in the internal market, which essentially destroys the economic activity. Therefore, the attachment of the normal price to the customs value is not mechanically adjusted. This will further deepen the problems noted above. That's the whole point of our proposal. And we would ask both the government and the committee to look more closely at them and support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u240	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. In fact, you're right, there are such problems, but we are these problems -- customs issues and definitions will be solved in the next code, in amendments to the next code on this, it's the Customs Code. And we already have these jobs. Therefore, the request to leave it in its proper form.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, I am voting on 231 amendments, by Anatoly Kinach. [[12:34:03]] For -8 No correction supported. Yes, Sphenov, 232nd. Don't insist. Kolechenko, 233. Yuri Carmazin, 234th Amendment Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u242	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, using the fact that we are once again happy by Andri Petrovich Kljev as First Vice-Prime Minister, I appeal to him to instruct him immediately to determine why people's rights are being violated. I'm talking to Nina Ivanovna Carpathian. In the center of Europe, mobile phones are turned off, especially in this square, where there are now about 10,000 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u243	In fact, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u244	Isn't that, in fact, Vladimir Mikhailovich?Oh, my God! That's amazing in fact. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm surprised you're not surprised because you're the head of the People's Party. That's why I know it bothers you deep down. I propose that I take into account my technicality in this case, which is to number individual parts of the text in part fourteen and eighty. And what I'm saying is that Arjevitin was absolutely right. And when you vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u245	I'm betting on the 234th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:35:41]] For-22. Correction not supported. Goroskovic, 236th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Holy shit, 238. Sphinx, 243. Voropeyev, 244th. No, it's not. Carmazine, 246. Microphone, please. 12:3 6:08.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u246	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am still addressing you as the leader of the People's Party for you and me to take care of the people. And more than that, I want to tell you that this people have now addressed the President of Ukraine, where they write about these silences. That's what I've already been brought into the hall, that's a statement to the President that it's a brutal violation. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll show you right now. And here's the conclusion: the government that destroys small businesses, namely, the authors of the Tax Code, which deliberately violate legislation, is the name of Brodsky, Kolesniykov, Tigypto, Azarov -- retired. That's what the Ukrainian people require. I'll give it to you now, Your Honor. And please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, the 246th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:37:35]] For-26 Correction not supported. 248, Blackwolf. Microphone, please. 248, Alexander Blackwolf, do you have it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u248	Yes, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Again. This gives us a definition of renting housing. In Ukraine, everyone knows very well what a rental of housing is. And here are some of the adjustments that I've made, and then I've drawn attention to what really needs to be done. It's sent to another piece of legislation. That's why I'm asking you to delete this item. And I want to remind you that the right Carmazin, the phones really don't work. But they work with big crashes, which rarely happens. Therefore, the Supreme Council should also pay attention to the conditions under which it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u249	Dear colleagues! I think we need to borrow this idea. That during a plenary meeting in the Supreme Council, there were no telephone conversations in the session room, that would be very nice. I'm betting on a vote of 248 amendments. [[12:39:07]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Amendment 250. Don't insist. Amendment 253. Don't insist. Amendment 254. We've already voted on it. Alexander the Blacksmith. She was not supported. Next. Sphinx, 255. Corge, 256. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Voropeyev, 257. So, Hara, 260? No, it's not. Bondarenko, 261. Socka, 262. I can't see. Shamanov, 264. Martinenko, 265. Sphinx? No, it's not. Kors? No, it's not. Voropeyes? No, it's not. Blackwolf, 269, we've already voted on it, this amendment. Well, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u250	Well, we didn't vote her. We voted the same. But I'm asking you to back this one up again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u251	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u252	And by the way, we missed one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u253	I bet on the vote, Amendment 269, by Alexander Czarvolenko. [[12:40:41]] For-7. No correction supported. 270 repairs, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u254	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, 270 amendments apply to what I propose so that the characteristics of housing objects in part 14.2.129 can be transferred to the Housing Code. Because here are the things that are written down as defined by the residential house, which is a residential house of the garden type, which is housing, apartment, cottage, room, or courtroom. This is absolutely not the norm of the Tax Code, is it not understood? Let's put it in the standard of the Housing Code and do it there. Mr. Vitaly! Well, it is obvious that this is not the norm of this codex! And we're going to link it to it, and then we're going to define it, just put it there. If we define in every law how we want to collect taxes, we will leave people behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u255	I'll explain why this is the definition of the Tax Code. Because a new tax, real estate tax is being introduced, and in order to clearly determine the area to be taxed and the area to which the benefit should be distributed, this list must be left behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, I place my vote on Amendment 270. [[12:42:35]] For-34 Correction not supported. 272 repairs, Alexander Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u257	Dear friends, I would just like to support Carmazin, he speaks quite correctly of the Housing Codex. And in the Supreme Council there is a definition after the first reading of the Building Codex. And it's going to be very strange when all of these definitions don't match the Tax Code. And about 272 amendments, I'm proposing this part where you define the uniformity of goods to be removed, because it's completely pointless, because it's still listed for what reason they are -- that's the business quality or reputation of the market, the presence of the trading country, the manufacturing country, the manufacturer and all that. So this is a completely ridiculous set of words, which, by the way, is still not particularly used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u258	This set of words corresponds to the substance and concept of the codex. We have a definition of normal prices. And to determine normal prices, you have a different definition: homogeneous goods, identical goods, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u259	I'm betting on a vote of 272 amendments. [[12:43:59]] For-9 Correction not supported. Amendment 274. Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, in the first edition, it is so unprofessional that it is a bank's operating day that even the National Bank has not been able to stand up to it. Plus, the National Bank has the right to set some working days, even though we know that there is a completely different legislation that regulates these things. So I suggested that we edit what an operating day is not just like we wrote it -- acceptance of documents into a bank and everything, this document needs to be accepted, it needs to be technically processed and executed -- it's called "the full interpretation of the operating day of the bank." Among other things, this position is supported by the National Bank. So I'm asked very much, let me support my editor, but it's similar. What an operating day is, we have passed the Law on Cashless Accounting and Counting. There's a law that regulates what an operating day is. I was almost duplicating. So I'm asking you to throw away the last line, it's funny and it's unprofessional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u261	I think it's worth supporting the National Bank's proposal for this definition and voting for 275 amendments to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Let me put it this way, I'm going to put to the vote first the proposal of Stanislav Arjevetin. It's actually absorbed. So I'm putting it to a vote, now I'm asking you to support amendment 275 of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please vote. 275 Amendment to the National Bank of Ukraine [[12:46:04]] For 243 Correction supported. Thank you. Yes, Martinenko, 279. Don't insist. Sphinx, 280. Oh, no? Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich? No, it's not. 281st. Korgee, 282. Martinenko, 283. Voropeyev, 284. Oh, no? Konovaluk, 285. Carmazine, 286. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u263	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remind you that so far no broadcasts are going on and off in the area, including mobile phones in the area. The amendment then refers to the addition of article 14 to a new paragraph of the following content: “The official publication of acts and legal instruments by public authorities and local self-government authorities is the placement of such acts and documents on the official website of the relevant public authority and local self-government authority using an electronic digital signature for identification signed and confirmed the integrity of data in electronic form to ensure the continuous updating of the texts of these acts and documents and the provision of free access to them to all users, by altering the further numbering of parts”. I think we should add that. And that explanation that's written here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u264	I'm betting on a vote of 286 of Yuri Carmazin's amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:47:59]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. 287 revisions, Alexander Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u265	Dear friends, once again, I urge us not to include definitions that we don't need, a. and once again I point out that where we don't need to define where we don't need to, we repeat them. And once again, please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, put to the vote to include the broadcast in the area, because, indeed, tens of thousands of people have gathered and we are not giving them the opportunity to listen to the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u266	I'll bet the vote on 287 amendments. [[12:48:53]] For-9 No correction supported. Yes, Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, 290 is not. Creature, 291 — no. Bondarenko, 293 - no. Yes, Vlasenko, 297 mics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, the inadequacy of the legislative technique is generally evident in the definitions. This is 14.153. it is proposed to define the term “tax debt repayment” and it is noted that the repayment of the tax debt is a reduction in the absolute value of the amount of such debt. So we have the repayment is equal to the reduction, this is complete. Total absurdity, can't be a drawdown. Because if we paid off, we didn't have a debt, and if we cut it, it stayed. And accordingly, they can't be, they can't be, they can't be, and they can't define each other. It's either a partial repayment of tax debt, or a repayment of tax debt in part, or a repayment of tax debt is a zero reduction in the amount of that debt, but it's not a reduction. So you have to do something about this definition, because it's completely misunderstood and completely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u268	Well, that makes sense. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u269	Yes, indeed, there is. But I would like the national MP not only to come to the session room. We've been working for a month and a half, Sergei, and we could work with you on all these standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u270	I'll bet the vote on the 297th amendment. [[12:50:53]] For 20 No correction supported. Maielenko, 299th. Kinach, 300th. Please, Vlasenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u271	Thank you. I'd like to confirm by vote in room 298 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u272	Sergei Vasilovich, I'm going to put her to a vote, well, I'd just like to ask that we have mutual respect. Why train the Supreme Council of Ukraine? It's counted. I'll put, well, you know, you're absurd! Dear colleagues, the committee supported Sergio Vlasenko's 298th amendment, and on his request, I'm voting to support this amendment. Please vote. [[12:51:52]] For 272 Correction supported, thank you. Yes, Samuelnka. We've already talked, yes. Yuri Carmazin, 302nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u273	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am tired of answering the phone right now, and I want to tell you that citizens remind me that there is a 38th article of the Constitution, although I know that they have the right to participate in the administration of state affairs, and that's why they are expressing their positions against the consideration that is currently taking place in the Supreme Council. So I ask them not to cut off my phone, but let them address the leaders of those parties that are now represented in Parliament. As far as I'm With regard to the 302 amendment, I would like to say that I have proposed that the tax notice be defined as a decision to send to the taxpayer a written proposal from the controlling authority on the need for the taxpayer to pay the amount of the financial obligation determined by the controlling authority in the cases provided for in the Code and other acts of law. Control for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u274	I'll bet you 302 votes. He's got a right for a minute. [[12:53:27]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. And here we have such a strange situation, honourable colleagues, complaining that they're jamming phones and making phone calls all the time, so no one's deafening, so that's what it means. 303, does Gretzak insist? Shevchuk, 304, right? Shevchuk, 305th, no. Royal, 308th, no. You're celebrating? What? Yes, where the Queen is, please. Is it? Microphone, I'm sorry, 308 amendments, Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u275	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. Today, tens of thousands of entrepreneurs have gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council, with one request to prevent small and medium-sized businesses from being destroyed in our country. And in 308 amendments, we have a proposal to cancel the planned checks. Such anachronism, which is present in this Tax Code, does not work in any civilized economically developed country. Planned checks are like a planned collection of data from entrepreneurs, destroying and increasing the corruption tax that is today the most collected and best administered in our country. We therefore insist that planned checks be removed from this Tax Code. This amendment contains such a rule, please support it. And it is also surprising today that cynicism, the absence of the author of Mr. Tigipco's Tax Code in the Hall, could still have come and listened to both the rallyers and listened to the way it was being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u276	If we rule out planned checks, it's only out of schedule. That's probably worse. So there are planned tests. If you include planned tests, then all checks should be excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u277	I'll bet the vote on the 308th amendment. The author is Natalia Kraljevska. [[12:55:47]] For-47 Correction not supported. Yuri Carmazin, microphone. 307th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u278	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You're actually right that sometimes they call. And I want to tell you that I'm not happy with those calls, because I know better than anyone who's in danger here under this law. This is the destruction of the entire enterprise in this country. In Odessa, 19 percent of businesses have closed down while white and red are running the country! 19 percent is closed! And you want to destroy everything in the first place. As a result, Amendment 307 expands what is in paragraph 14.1 where it is a matter of planning checks by the authorities of the State Tax Service, and it will now be checked by the supervisory authorities. [[165]] And the notion of “controlling authorities” is 20 times broader than the notion of “tax authorities”. Not 20, but today 106 times, you know, that's more of a concept. As a result, I believe, Mr. Vitalia, this must be ruled out. You have to give up your amendment. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u279	Chapter 14 is a terminology section. Therefore, the term “verifications by control bodies” should be used. The procedure for these tests is already described in other sections.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, the 307th Committee has taken into account the amendment. At the request of the author, I will put her to the vote for her support. Dear colleagues, calm down. I'm betting on the vote to confirm the amendment 307, which the committee has taken into account, please vote. [[12:57:49]] For 244 Correction counted. Amendments 310-314. Pinchuck insists on her? No, it's not. Is the feast insisting on its amendment? No, it's not. Next. Bondarenko 324. No, it's not. Novikova 325. No, it's not. It's 326. No, it's not. Vlasenko 328. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u281	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I must first join in what my colleagues say, particularly my colleague Karmazin. And I have to say, an hour ago, the rallyers adopted the resolution of the All-U.S. protest. In particular, there is paragraph 3, in which all rallyers request that the draft Ukrainian Tax Code No. 7101-1 be submitted for public discussion on the appropriate procedure and that the expert conclusions and proposals of practitioners be taken into account. That's quite a point. By the way, back to my amendment, we've got some very difficult definitions coming up. We find that tax consultation is the help of a control body. It's like they're some kind of charitable organization out there that they're helping. This is no help, an oral or written explanation of the relevant controlling body. So I made an appropriate amendment, and I asked her to consider it, but again for unknown reasons she was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u282	If the payer asks for clarification, by the way, it is absolutely free of charge and it is prescribed, it is an appropriate aid to the tax payer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u283	I bet on the vote of Amendment 328, by Sergei Vlasenko. [[12:59:52]] For-34 Amendment 328 is not supported. Carmazin's microphone, he insists on amendment 327.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u284	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not only I'm asking, it's all people who now demand that tax clarification be made public, think about the monitoring body on the practical implementation of specific laws or regulations on the administration of taxes or assemblies that are placed on such a controlling body. We replace the constitutional body of the Constitutional Court, let everyone interpret: Audit control, tax administration, price management. We give everyone the opportunity to make a tax ruling, and we say that it is, and we legitimize it, and we make a sense of it. As a result, this rule was to be excluded at all, not only improved. Mr. Vitaly, you know exactly what I'm talking about. So I feel for you as the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u285	Dear National Deputies! Amendment 327 counted. The author insists on putting her to the vote. I'll put it to a vote to support Amendment 327 of Irina Gorin. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u286	The committee supports. [[13:01:38]] For 241 Correction counted. Is that how Leluk insists on his amendments? No, it's not. Next. So Arjovitin 336 revisions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u287	Dear National Deputies! This amendment refers to the fact that a tax agent, such as a legal person, if, as a tax agent, he collects taxes from a natural person, it is envisaged in other articles that there will be cases where this tax agent, such as a legal person, for a natural person, at the expense of his own resources, should pay the tax unpaid, then seek this individual to be tried and so forth. Therefore, my suggestion that there be no such abuse should be added to this standard, where the tax agent, the following: “Additional tax.” I apologize. “In the performance of a person’s tax agent’s function, it shall not be allowed to require payment of the tax at the expense of its own resources.” [[i.e. from a tax agent]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u288	I'll bet the vote on 336th. [[13:03:10]] For-9 Correction not supported. Amendment 338. Sergei Vlasenko's microphone. No, you don't? Let's move on then. Sphinx repairs? No, it's not. Heropeev, 342nd? No, it's not. You're celebrating 343, 344? No, it's not. Voropeyev, 346th. Holy, 347th. Kinach, 348. No, it's not. Shevchuk, 349. Yes, 350, Sergey Klovev? No, it's not. Voropeyev, 351st. No, it's not. Anatoly Kinach, 352nd. Sergei Kleev, 353. Air conditioner, 354th. Yes, Vázadez, 356th. No, it's not. Kinach, 357. Voropeyev, 358th. Kinach, 359th. Sergei Kleev, 360th. Yuri Carmazin, 361, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u289	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose part three of paragraph 6, paragraph 14.1.195, as follows: “The permanent representation is not the use of buildings solely for the purpose of storing, demonstrating or delivering goods or products belonging to a non-resident. Saving stocks of goods, or non-resident goods, solely for the purpose of storing, or demonstrating the storage of stocks of goods, or non-resident goods. Only for the purpose of processing other businesses, maintaining a permanent place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or products, or for collecting information for a nonresident. Directing a person within the scope of service contracts to provide staff, maintaining a permanent place of activity, solely for the purpose of introducing to a non-resident any other activity that has a preparatory or auxiliary nature. In fact, this will become a permanent place of activity, which will result in the economic activity of a non - resident in Ukraine in whole or in part. The warehouse or premises used for delivery.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u290	Amendment 361 of Yuri Karmazin is being voted on. [[13:05:51]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Yes, Voropeiev is 363rd. Bondarenko, 364th. Kinach is 365th. Konovaluk, 366th. Air conditioning is 367. Yes. Koleschenko is 376th. Shamanov. He insists. Kolesnicka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, I have been approached by some 23,000 voters who demand that they be denied the identity code. The happier Mitrovica Volodymyr, the Boguslav Mitrofan, the Archbishop of Bilocerkovsky, the people demand that they be given the opportunity to leave what was before in accordance with the law we have — the Law on the State Register of Individuals, Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments. Because according to their religious preferences, they would like to give up. There are the results and the results of the analysis that confirm that the ID number is in the EN-13 standard. In the form of a bar code, it has a key sequence of three sixes. For believers, three sixes is the number of the devil. I ask that they support this proposal and leave the possibility for believers to be members of our nation, so that they do not undermine society, and that they support the state with their taxes, taxes, and they can do so peacefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u292	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u293	I'll comment. We set up a separate working group on this issue, which included representatives of the OPC, authorized by the Legal Authority and other, say, authorized persons of the Blessed Metropolitan Volodymyr. Also, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the DPA, the Committee on Religious Affairs entered, and we set out a clear standard on this issue. That is, according to the consent of a person, it is not the identification code that can be used, but the passport data. That's why. This is the protocol. I can give it to everyone. He agrees and agrees with the representatives of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, there is the position of the committee, there is the position of the author. I'll put it to a vote, but then who's going to give a clue as to who the believers are, who's not a believer. What will help in the churches or where? I'm voting on Amendment 376. [[13:08:56]] For-41 Correction not supported. Just a minute. I would ask the committee separately on this subject. Well, please. The factions, please. At the same time, I ask the committee to deal with this issue because it is sensitive. Region Party – 10, “Block of Timoshenko” – 2, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 5, Communists – 22, “Block of Lithuania” – 0, non-fractional – 2. I'm asking the committee to reconsider this question. Martinenko, 378. No, it's not. Bondarenko, 380. Costenko, 381. Voropeyev, 382. Konovaluk, 383. Kinah, 386. Bondarenko, 387. Novikova, 388. Bondarenko, 391. Kinach, 392. Konovaluk, 393. Bondarenko, 395. Shevchuk, 397. Baranov, 398. Air conditioning, 399. Vlasenko, 400. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u295	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Once again, we're resisting the definition and the definition is once again interesting and completely misunderstood. Yes, in particular article 14.1.229 suggests that the term “self-absorbed person” be defined. And in this definition, there's this notion, let's say, of a person who's not employees within an entrepreneurial or independent professional activity. Let's say I don't understand what "a worker within an entrepreneurial or independent professional activity" means. I realize that it is a person who is hired by an entrepreneur or a person who is in a working relationship with a person who is engaged in an independent professional activity. And what is a “worker within” I don't quite understand. And that's why I propose by my amendment to exclude this from the definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u296	I'm betting on the 400th amendment of Sergei Vlasenka's vote. [[13:11:33]] For-29 Correction not supported. Shamanov, 401st. No, it's not. Vlasenko, 402 repairs. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u297	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Once again, we have another definition going, but here it is ideological. I'm proposing from this definition of exclusion a part that says that it's only independent that a professional activity is carried out by a person who doesn't use a hired job more than one individual. Please tell me, if a notary uses two helpers, is this an independent professional activity? Please tell me, if a lawyer has two assistants, is that no longer an independent professional activity? If there is one editor and one proofreader, is this no longer an independent professional activity? If an artist has two helpers, is this no longer an independent professional activity? What's the point? I realize that there are limits to this part. But let's make them logical and understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u298	The removal of the restriction on the number of persons employed does not correspond to the concept of a self - employed person.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u299	I'm betting on a vote of 402 amendments. [[13:13:02]] For-19 No correction supported. Coastal, 403. No, it's not. Kinach, 404? 405, Konovaluk. Bondarenko, 406th. Bondarenko, 408. Kinach, 409th. Konovaluk, 410th. Blackwolf, 411th. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u300	Dear friends! So from 408 to 411, these are all modifications on the same subject. And Bondarenko, and Kinacha, and Konovaluka, and mine. It's about definition. A reasonable, economic reason. Well, it's fundamentally wrong this definition essentially. Because it's not the only thing that can be a reasonable economic reason, an economic effect. And again, how to understand it. Because it can be understood for different periods of long - term, short - term. This is the first time. Secondly, this kind of thing should not be in the Tax Code at all. So I'm proposing, like the individuals, the MPs that I counted, delete this amendment. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u301	I'm betting on the vote 411 amendment. [[13:14:28]] Z-11. No correction supported. Yeah, 416 Amendment, Stoyan. No, it's not. Next. Asshole, 419th. I can't see. Chaplain, 420th. No, it's not. Saint, 421. No, it's not. 422nd, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u302	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Vitalia Yuriovich! Hometic, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u303	Yes, yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u304	We now have the whole country, the whole of Europe in small and medium-sized businesses, and the whole world. We now propose to do other things. A small business is destroyed in this code, and here you suggest that the medium-sized business be destroyed. You're proposing to delete a sub-item at all, which defines what the average taxpayer is, is a legal person in which the average number of employees during the financial reporting year, I emphasize, exceeds 50 persons, and the amount of income from the implementation of the product during this period exceeds 70 million dollars, which does not refer to the category of large taxpayers of taxes defined in this code. With this definition given by Minfin and the government, you could agree, but for some reason you're taking it and removing it. I'm definitely against this removal, I'm in charge of saving the medium-sized business, and I'm asking you to set it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u305	I'll explain why. The reason for this is again in another block of administration, where it's about checks. Today, this is the definition for the purpose of carrying out the tests. The average payer is a payer that starts at 70 million dollars. We've ruled out this rule to make reduced checking terms for small businesses. So today, a small enterprise is an enterprise that has up to 70 million dollars per year. We've done it in other chapters in such a way that a small enterprise is, at least if I'm right, there are 12 million bracelets to make the checks much easier for small businesses, and the terms were minimal -- there are 10 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u306	Is that how you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment 422 is considered by the committee. I now put her to the vote in favour of this amendment. Amendment 422, please vote. [[13:17:21]] For 241 Correction supported. 425th, Costenko. Don't insist. Is it? Oh, I'm sorry, it's Joey's second. 424th, Jaroslav Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u307	Dear reporter, when I discussed the previous amendment, I said that if we classify all tax payers: large, medium and small, then certainly we should classify large, medium and small in our definition. Unfortunately, the first reading in the government's version had a definition of average. You've already lost it, and that's not normal. Today, according to today’s approach to large taxpayers, you are really offering specifics in the conduct of checks. But tomorrow, if any standards are introduced, changes in the classification of such taxpayers will have to be made. So there can be no situation where there is no definition of the average, small, and large taxpayer. So I strongly ask you to take this proposal into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u308	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 425 amendments. Please be sure. [[13:18:59]] For-12. No correction supported. Correction 427, Bondarenko. Oh, no? Konovaluk, 428. Korz, 429. Martinenko, 430, 431. Voropeyev, 432. Yes, Kolechenko, 437. Well, we voted on this amendment. Arjewitin, 439. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the absurdity of what I'm about to say. “Financial assistance is the principal amount of the loan or deposit given to the taxpayer without setting the time limit for the refund.” Please tell me, could there be a deposit or a loan without a refund? Can you imagine that? I would also like to remind the committee that article 10.54 of the Ukrainian Civil Code does not provide credit without setting return dates. This time. As far as deposit deposits are concerned, there are only two types of bank loans under the Banking and Banking Act – the first requirement and the time-contribution. So, your honor, let's throw this nonsense away. Well, there can be no financial aid, no credit, no deposit, no return. I'm asking you very much: let's think logically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u310	I'm betting on a vote of 439 amendments. [[13:20:46]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. 440 repairs. Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u311	Dear friends, isn't that the norm of tax legislation to determine the concept of freight? Well, don't we have special legislation that regulates shipping and all that? If it is not in line with this legislation, changes should be made. If the answer is yes, the second time it is absolutely not worth calling. On occasion, if anyone is interested, someone will be able to use that legislation or an interpreter of the Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u312	I'm betting on a vote of 440. [[13:21:42]] For-12. Correction not supported. Amendment 444, Anatoly Kinach. Oh, no? 443, Correction of the Blacksmith. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u313	Again, we define the term "chronometer." What's called "chronometer," and what all people define is what it is, it's not what's written here. And what's written here is not a chronometer, it's something. That's how it's supposed to be written. Please delete this amendment, this article, this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u314	I'm betting on a vote of 443 amendments. [[13:22:39]] For -8 Correction not accepted. Next, the 444 amendment of the Voropayev insists? No, it's not. 445th, Costenko, Georgik, Rabbit. Please, Georgik. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u315	I want to point out, first of all, that I have almost 10 amendments here, and somehow they're all one amendment, so I'm asking for every amendment to give my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u316	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u317	First of all, I would like to stress that we are now discussing, not discussing the article. 14, this definition of the notion that the concept of a “little tax payer” in this article will be missing, means that we are purely psychologically accepting the Tax Code, in which the concept of a small taxpayer, a small business, will be missing in principle, if we do not take this amendment into account. Because today we see what's happening around the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'm asking the rapporteur to go to the parliamentary majority and confirm what you're doing for a small business. So let's, in terms of the notion that we're going to have a small payer present, we're going to have taxes on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u318	Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u319	I'm confirming that we're in favour of small business, that's the first. Second, how? We've done two things. The first concept is that a large taxpayer is the circulation of more than 500 million and a small taxpayer is, there, 12 million and 12, everything else is the average taxpayer, that is to say, define it. recognition for tax purposes, verifications and the purposes set out in the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u320	No, it's not. The author is an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u321	And our proposals, they're in favor of a small business. Because there are a lot of businesses that are going to be tested in other terms today, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u322	Is there an author?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u323	There's an author.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u324	Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u325	Written: taken into account in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u326	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 445, and I am voting on the 445th amendment as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:12]] For the 18th. I put it in place for adoption as a whole. “For” – 18, the amendment is not supported. Lutsky, 446th. No, it doesn't. Thank you. Yes, Carmazin, 450th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u327	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you very much if we would still follow the Rules. Because I demanded a 445th word, because it says "accounted for essentially." It says here, and that's where the definition of small business was. And actually, jojik is right, a small business like this is completely destroyed here. This was the case with “the average number of employees employed does not exceed 50”. That won't happen now. What is more, the table says that it is not true. It says here what is included in the fifth article. I'm sending you to page 19 and you'll see that nothing is counted. With regard to the 450th amendment, I propose to complement part of the new term: “advertising services” is the provision of services for the promotion of goods in the advertising market, including the promotion of sales and advertising activities in the city of sale, the distribution of advertisements and samples, planning services, creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u328	Well, it's written, Yuri Anatolyevich, this amendment is made, it is. I'll put her to the vote, this amendment. Dear colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting an amendment here to 450. 450th, Yuri Carmazin, please identify yourselves, fellow officers of honor! This is page 160. [[13:27:13]] For-52 Correction not supported. Yeah, 457th Correction, Prutnik. No, it's not. Martinenko, 461st. No, it's not. You're an ass. I'm on it. Dear colleagues, we have now considered the 14th article. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I am now voting on the 14th article, taking into account those amendments that have found support. Please vote in favour. [[13:28:08]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now put to the vote 15 articles. It consists here, it's short and it's all accounted for, there's no change. I'd like to vote on the 15th article, please. [[13:28:41]] For 247 Copy that. Now we go for the 16th article. Asshole, 465th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Sphinx, 467th. Asshole, 468. Yes, Bully, 471st. Sphinx, 472nd. Asshole, 474th. Snack, 476th. Asshole, 477. Chaplain, 478. Sphinx, 479. Asshole, 480. Blackwolf, 481. Microphone, please. 481 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u329	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was just talking to you. We are required to broadcast on the field and are told that communication is very bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u330	I think we're required to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u331	That's right. We're required to work. So let us consider the adjustments made by the opposition. So I'm asking you to consider my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u332	I'll bet you a vote on the 481st amendment. [[13:30:05]] For-23 Correction not supported. 483th, Kinach? 484, Asshole?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u333	Now, one minute. 486th, Vlasenko, are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u334	Dear colleagues! In the 486th Amendment, I propose that I cancel what is being done, namely: the duty of a taxpayer to sign acts and test reports. Thank God that no responsibility has been imposed, and especially criminal responsibility. We have a practice where an entity does not agree with the act and may not sign it because its right is expressly provided for in the Constitution. He doesn't sign it in one case when he thinks it's illegal, this act. And according to the Constitution, anyone can fail to obey illegal orders and not sign them. So I propose not to force taxpayers to sign acts, especially since article 86, bearing the four of the same code, provides for cases where the taxpayer does not sign such an act. And it's very interesting to explain why my amendment was rejected, it says here that an act or help is a legal fact. No act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u335	Microphone, let me finish, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u336	I want to point out that neither the act nor the legal evidence is, these are documents that contain any information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u337	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u338	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! When you worked in the Tax Office, you had a different opinion on this. And the act is a legal document that has to be signed if it's not signed, there will be conflict situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u339	I'm betting on the vote of 486th Sergey Vlasenka. [[13:32:17]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 487 amendments, Arjevitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u340	My next amendment. To the sentence: “Do not interfere with the legal activity of the official control body in carrying out its duties of service.” and so on, add, “if these duties are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine”. I'm against that. If, for example, the tax collector has certain duties at work, he comes into the organization, shows that he is a tax collector, and checks out what he wants. I am against such cases and therefore my suggestion to add to this conclusion is that such actions are done in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u341	It doesn't change the essence of this proposal, it's not a principle at all. Clearly, so, if they come, according to existing legislation with their respective functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u342	I'll bet you 487 votes. Yes, but it has already been voted on. We've already voted on it. [[13:33:41]] For the 18th. No correction supported. Amendment 488. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u343	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I appeal to you because this amendment is making things worse, a situation that was already bad when the code was adopted in the first edition. At paragraph 16.4. 7 is obliged to notify the State Tax Office of the place where such payer has been billed for liquidation or reorganization within three working days of the date of the decision. It is now recorded, according to this amendment, that it should be reported to the supervisory authorities at the place where the payer is accounted for. So the quarantine inspection, the whole of us, the MCS, the KRU, the State of Oversight, everyone, the job protection, and so on, 116 monitoring organizations, you're suggesting that you correct this information. That's ridiculous. Let's leave it the way it was in the first line, tax, and the tax will figure it out, who, what, and how. Don't make this more complicated, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u344	Dear colleagues, we have voted on this amendment once and we have supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u345	No, it's different. We vote for another.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u346	In this regard, we voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u347	We voted for another. But in this case, I am willing to agree with the National MP and support his position so that only tax service can come. Vote for non-assistance if there is such insistence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u348	Dear colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote 488 amendments on her confirmation. And the amendment asks that you do not support it, and this will leave the previous editorial that the information should only be given to the tax authorities and everything. So I'm voting on Amendment 488. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:36:03]] For two. The decision is not taken. Thus, there remains, dear colleagues, sub-paragraph 16.4. Article 16 in the original edition. Let's move on. Blackwolf, 490 repairs. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u349	Dear friends, the 490 amendment relates to what we require to report within three days a taxpayer's tax on the liquidation or reorganization of the enterprise. This may be in some cases in a short time, so my proposal is strictly technical -- replace 3 by 7 -- it'll be more correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u350	I'll bet you 490 votes. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:36:59]] For-16 Correction not supported. Next. Amendment of Sphen, 492. Don't you insist? Amendment 494. Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment also refers to the fact that taxpayers act not only by limiting this code but also by other legislation, i.e. by allowing officials who control the authorities during their examination of premises, territories for the purpose, there, income, income and so on, I propose to delete “the provisions of this code” and to add “established by the current legislation of Ukraine”. [[by Text]] Because there are other laws that limit certain taxpayers’ rights in sensitive matters, such as house, land, and so forth. So I propose to write down a broader norm according to current legislation, not just the code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u352	I'll bet you a vote on the 494th amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:25]] For-23 No correction supported. 495th Amendment. Is God’s Word Urged? No, it's not. Dear colleagues! Now, if you'll have your attention. I'm voting on the 16th article, taking into account the proposals that were found here, which is the right part. The right column is voted on in the 16th article. Please vote. [[13:39:02]] For 244 Article 16 was adopted. Let's move on. Yes, Vlasenko, are you insisting on 498 amendments? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u353	Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that. I'm going to report that anyone, Vitaly Juryovich, knows that my position has not changed either while working in the DPA or now. I'm just trying to fix the disadvantages that are obvious in this law. So going back to 498 amendments, it says here that it's essentially not counted at all. I want to point out that this amendment is caused by the fact that we already noted in article 52 of this Code the right of taxpayers to receive oral and written tax advice. So I thought it was necessary that in article 17.1.1, when we are counting again the tax payers' rights, we should make it absolutely clear that the tax payer’s rights are also related to receiving oral and written tax advice, including through the Internet, tax information, and so on. So I'm asking you to take it into account, not essentially, as indicated here, but in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u354	I'm betting on a vote of 498 amendments. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:40:39]] For-36 Correction not supported. Amendment 502. She's a volunteer microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u355	Dear friends, this amendment is about an accusation. And I'm suggesting that we remove that from this gift means consulting authorities, because that's a ridiculous accusation. In addition, delete the words “in the order laid down in this Code”. Because the charges are established, not by this code, but by the order of the accusation, but by an entirely different legislation. This is therefore not the subject of this code. Regardless of the order here, the complainant, the taxpayer, may still charge under another current legislation in Ukraine. So I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u356	I'm betting on a vote of 502 amendments. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:41:46]] For the 15th. No correction supported. 503. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u357	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have already stressed that we have already entered the deadlines after being consulted by the governing bodies, and now it is proposed to change them for clarification. So we're talking about 500, 500 constitutional courts. 500 will be tax administrations in Ukraine. And this is 500 constitutional courts. Well, think about it! And what are we doing? The work for the courts to go through all of this, and in the courts it's reflected, accused, everything. Well, from the point of view of it, let's say, the material position, it can certainly improve. But from the point of view of law, that's not going to get us anywhere. Let us forget these terms and explanations and consultations. For consultation and clarification, they are only, until the time of application, they must be, not after that. That's why I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u358	Dear colleagues! Amendment 503 was taken into account by the committee. At the request of the National MP, I am voting in favour of Amendment 503, by Vitaly Homutinnik. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:43:30.]] For 251 Correction supported. Koshin, 504 repairs. No, it's not. Asshole, 505? No, it's not. Blackwolf, 506 repairs. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u359	As far as disclosure is concerned. There must be written the words “without his written consent”. Otherwise it doesn't look quite right. Please consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u360	I'm betting on a vote of 506 amendments. [[13:44:13]] For-12. Correction not supported. Amendment to Blackwolve 508. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u361	Again, that's what this is about. The fact that we are limiting the prosecution procedure to the order laid down in this codex. Well, we can't do that. So I suggest we rule that out, because these are just absurd words.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u362	I'm betting on a vote of 508 amendments. [[13:44:52]] For-13. No correction supported. 509 Amendment of Anatolia Kinach. Notice or what? Well, please, Carmazin's microphone. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u363	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding amendment 509, which states that the matter is essentially taken into account. I have great respect for the People's Deputy of Kinach, but he has been deceived, none of this amendment has been taken into account, completely disregarded. So, Anatoly Kirilovich, look closely. You have proposed an absolutely correct amendment: to supplement sub-paragraph 7.1.11 with the following: “it also has the right to receive budgetary compensation for reasons available and in accordance with the procedure established by this Code”. And that's absolutely appropriate because he has a natural person or an enterprise to receive budgetary compensation on the basis that there is a basis and in the order set out in the code. Instead, the committee writes that this is in special chapters, and the special chapters do not contain it in the way it is. And what's more, this right is narrowed down. Because of this, I would like to request an amendment to vote in this way, in general, to support, not as simply thrown out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u364	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u365	In individual chapters, we have set out a clear mechanism for budgetary compensation and definition. This is particularly true of Chapter V on Added Value Tax. That's why the committee's proposal is essentially taken into account. But if there is insistence to vote, it is possible to vote, but then to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u366	Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u367	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. On behalf of my colleague Karmazin, I confirm that paragraph 17.1.10 was edited by the author of the legislative initiative on my part and by the parliamentary committee. All the tax payers' rights under this rule are upheld under existing legislation. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u368	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, given the author's position, I ask you not to insist. 510 Amendments Alexander Blackwolf, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u369	Dear friends, the point is that the taxpayer is entitled to full compensation for the unlawful acts of inactivity and control or their officials. It is further written “in the established law of order”. Thus, this paragraph “in the established law of the order” can invalidate this right that it has the right to compensation. It is therefore proposed that the words “in the established order of law” should be deleted, leaving only “the undeniable right to damages”. Because if we don't, we will. The right to compensation and the right to compensation for the fact that we will not have legislation so cunningly prescribed. It is such a wicked adage “in the established law of order” that is not written, not written as. Where we're supposed to write it, that's where we don't write it. Again, the words “in the established order of law” are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u370	I'm betting on a vote of 510. [[13:48:39]] Z-11. Correction not supported. That's how the 516 Blacksmith is amended. It's partially accounted for. It pleases you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u371	Only partially satisfied.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u372	Dear colleagues! I now put to the vote, please note, article 17. Please vote. [[13:49:23]] For 252 I now place my 18th article on the vote. Please vote. Article 18 votes. [[13:49:48]] For 248 Yes, now article 19. Does the snack insist? No, it's not. Martinenko, 519? No, it's not. I'm betting on a total of 19 votes, please. [[13:50:18]] For 248 Decision taken. Now there are 20 articles. 521 repairs. Kinah, are you insisting? No, it's not. 522nd, Asshole. 523, Caplienne. 524th, asshole. 525th, Anatoly Kinach. 527th, Stanislav Arzvitin, do you insist on her? One minute, I'm sorry, 523, Caplienne, Kick-Ass, Ribakov, Kamchatny. Maybe you're looking at the wrong one. Yes, 527, Arjevitin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u373	Dear National MPs, my proposal is, as it were, for thinkers, to “receive free of charge from taxpayers all kinds of information on the movement of funds, taxes, currency contracts and so forth”. Sergey Petrovich Kljev slightly adjusted this edition of the first reading, but not until the end. Because as my proposal would be clear, according to the two laws that already exist on this issue, this is the Banking and Banking Act, as well as the Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Laundering, which has been criminalized. I just ordered these two articles and put them here, in this paper, so that they don't contradict these two laws. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u374	The committee supported the previous amendment of Clovis Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u375	I'm betting on a vote of 527. Please be sure. [[13:52:20]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. Yes. Correction 530, Bondarenko. 531, School. 532, Konovaluk. 533, Gritzak. 534, Poluniev. Thurmanov, 535. Hara, 536. Blackwolf, 537 mics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u376	Yes, dear friends, in this article it is worth noting financially, since it does not add anything to the article. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u377	I'm betting on a vote of 537. [[13:53:18]] For-16 No correction supported. 538th, Saints. 539, Kinach. Blackwolf, 540, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u378	Again, I propose a slightly different edition of this article, although the Committee's observation was that it narrows down the administrative procedure, but in this case it sounds like a commendation. Because by narrowing it down, we still support the rights of tax payers and certain conveniences for them, and we limit the use of tax authorities. So I'd like to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u379	I'm betting on a vote of 540. [[13:54:18]] For -14 No correction supported. Yes. Blackwolf, 542 repairs. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u380	I'm asking, so, at paragraph 21. Thus, in the words “implementing the requirements of other legislation, which is subject to compliance by the authorities of the State Tax Service, delete, for there should be no requirements for other legislation that would rely on the authorities of the tax service to exercise control. So it has to be the subject of other legislation, other control bodies. That's why I wouldn't do it. In tax service and so many jobs. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u381	I'm betting on a vote of 542 amendments. [[13:55:20]] For-19 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, there is such a suggestion that we now complete the consideration of this article and then announce a recess. No objections? Thank you. 543 revisions. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u382	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it has long been clear to all that the very dangerous profession that will be after the adoption of this code will be an accountant. It's today to find an accountant. He's a candidate for jail time. A candidate for walking and hauling bribes is a candidate for mental breakdowns and reduction of his life. We have to predict it now, and this society has to accept it. As a result, my amendment is designed to soften their lives a little. Although it takes a long time for our tax and accounting accounts to match. But in this code, we do not agree with it. I propose that paragraph 21.8 be worded as follows: “Study and verify in accordance with the order laid down in this Code, stress, orderly terms defined in this Code, and then further by text, original documents, registers, accounting taxes, etc., and other laws.” Because if we let it happen in a different order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u383	I bet on the vote of amendment 543. [[13:57:01]] For-22. Correction not accepted. Amendment 544, Mikoli Catherinechuka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u384	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine My amendment relates to the issue of checking the taxpayer’s tax records to keep him in cash. There's a sense of control procurement. And Kabmin suggests that these control purchases have a fiscal direction for verification. But in all countries, control procurement is quality control, and in general, it's about protecting consumers' rights, not, say, fiscal burden. Because the tax office has other instruments for fiscal control. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to convey a statement from all the opposition, both united and unconnected, so that they can still turn on the broadcast, because people do not understand what is going on. For the sake of this codex, let people know how this vote goes. And I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, after a break, to turn on this broadcast. Request to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u385	I'm betting on a vote of 544th Mikoli Catherinechuk. [[13:58:25]] For-27 No correction supported. 545th Amendment, Sergey Vlasenka. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u386	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm not afraid of the term "in the established law of the law of the law," as opposed to my colleague Blackwolf, especially when we're talking about the rights of tax authorities. So I don't understand the logic at all. When I suggested that the words “to conduct checks” should read: “in order established by valid legislation”, why did the committee reject it? Other tests cannot be carried out only in the order established by valid legislation. And if this is not what the tax authority is doing in this order, then it's not essentially a control and accounting operation. So it's completely technical, and it's completely unclear why it's being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u387	Clearly, why. Because all of these rules are already laid down in this codex, the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u388	I'll bet the vote on amendment 545. [[13:59:46]] For-13. Correction not supported. Poluniev, 546th Amendment. Yeah, go on. Sphinx, 553. Bondarenko, 554. Sphinx, 555. Gritsak, 556. Koshin. Counted. The stork, 558th. Sphinx, 559. Pinchuk, 560. Theological, 561st. No, it's not. Falcon, 562nd. Sphinx, 564. Snack, 567. Sphinx, 570. A bat, 571st. Tishenko, 573th. Carmazine, 574. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u389	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I propose that paragraph 21, 28 should read: “Apply to taxpayers financial penalties as defined by law” by deleting the words “to withdraw to budgets and public trust funds the amounts of money and/or tax debt in cases, order and size established by this Code”. To collect amounts of outstanding debt owed by the parent to the State of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on loan by the State of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or by the territorial community of the city or under the State’s local guarantee, as well as by credit from the budget. This amendment has not been taken into account, although I believe it will significantly improve this codex. For this reason, I would ask you to vote for it, because it says here that this is the norm of the current law of Ukraine on the State Tax Service in Ukraine. That's a good thing, it's a code. This one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u390	I'll bet the vote on amendment 574. [[14:02:06]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Yes, dear fellows, we're about to finish and we're going to take a break, here's a few more amendments. 578th, Stanislav Arzvethin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment and my proposal to remove the rule of non-time execution, there, the court's decision and so forth. It feels like there's, you know, a lot of stuff in here just in case, so be it. But with regard to court decisions, for example, financial institutions should do so in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act. If, for example, there is a case in which a court ruled that a client should pay some money and not have the money to pay the bill, why should a banking institution pay pennies for failing to do so? Because according to enforcement, the enforcement of court decisions is carried out, you know, there is a executive service that should do so, has certain powers, and let it do so. Everything about non-temporary revaluations is clearly settled, once again, about payment systems and remittances. You should. There are laws that regulate this. Why do we have to go through with this? So my proposal is to delete all of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-16-m0.u392	I bet on the vote of amendment 578. [[14:03:42]] For-13. Correction not supported. Yes, Bully, 582nd. Chaplain, 585th. 586 Tischenko. So, dear fellows, I will now put to the vote Article 20. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on 20 articles. Please vote, article 20. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:04:25]] For 245 The 20th article was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the national party, there is a break of 16 hours. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
