ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:42]] There were 410 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, our colleague, Heller Evgeny Borisovich, and I would like to welcome my colleagues and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on May 11, 2010. Twenty-five questions of order have been considered, seven laws and two decrees have been adopted, one bill adopted on a basis, one bill has been sent for re-reading, four bills have been returned to the committee for re-reading, and seven bills have been rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for statements by the Ukrainian national deputies with announcements, proposals and messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Names of the national MPs, please. People's MP Petrenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Vladimir Karpuk will be next. Who, who? Serbin? Please, Serbin. National Deputy Serbin, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! We've been doing some very interesting work lately. We accepted the budget brilliantly. Instead of the presentation, they accepted the budget without discussing anything. In this budget, we have made a very brilliant decision that we do not need a budget committee and that we will not control the government's actions. Similarly, we want very important information now, because no documents are available to the government to discuss these agreements that could lead to Ukraine's loss of independence, and we haven't even gotten those documents. But I'm going back to the budget. There's this town of Six in Sumskie County. It used to be a city of about 100,000 people, four large businesses, and a large construction plant. At Leonid Danilovich Kuchmi, the “Svema” production unit was first cut out on scrap metal, although there was modern Japanese equipment, I installed it myself. But metal proved to be better for some people than to produce. And about 14,000 people lost their jobs. And now this business is under the control of the same Party of Regions, and it's continuing to cut out this company and there's no wages, no debt repayment. Worse yet, there were three defense companies in the town of Šstec. We have a closed-circuit manufacturing cycle. And now we're losing this sector again, we're losing people, we're losing currency. This began four years ago with the first government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. For two years, when the government of Timoshenko worked, we began to pull this enterprise out of the crisis. The full salary could not be paid, but part of the salary was still paid. We were able to enter into contracts for the supply of goods to this company abroad, and money was sent. After the election, the company stopped again. There's no debt repayment on salary, no money to support our defenses. I've spoken to the new Minister of Industry three times and I've heard the same answer three times that I'll figure it out, I'll figure it out. And that's what I'm going to do is we're going to lose the defense branch, we're going to lose our jobs, and we're going to lose our currency. So let's do this, if you came to power, if you said you needed a defense industry, let's do this and figure it out. You don't need a budget committee to figure out how much money you need to spend to function as an enterprise, to pay off your debt. Nothing prevents a reexamination of the government, a plan to bring this enterprise out of crisis in order for it to exist and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u3	Yeah, finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u4	Sadly, though, simple conversations continue, and there is no explanation. Here are your promises and here are your deeds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u5	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk refers to Vijacheslav Kirilenko, the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Leo Biruk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The world and Ukraine are still discussing the events of the “black Tuesday” on April 27 and what was unprecedented in the Ukrainian Parliament. Certainly, those events were far from parliamentary procedure and far from the relationship between the opposition and the majority. The physical attack of the majority factions on the opposition sectors is an unprecedented phenomenon for world Parliamentarianism. Therefore, our faction and the Zakrain delegation prepared an appeal to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to the European Parliament, to the organisations of security and cooperation in Europe to investigate the events that took place in the Ukrainian Parliament. I think the European partnership will give them a proper, not a unilateral, assessment. The other one. We believe that this agreement, in view of the fact that all the rules of procedure have been violated, has not been legally effective, and the position of our faction is that we consider the agreements on the establishment of the Black Sea fleet on the basis of which the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation should leave the Ukrainian territory by 28 May 2017. Third. We are extremely outraged by the humanitarian policy of the new government. There is an attack on the very heart of the Ukrainian people, our Ukrainian language. In fact, limited testing in Ukrainian when entering higher education institutions, essentially under the protection of foreign students, is limited, and then Ukrainian language in higher education is banned in general, and the onset of the lifting of Ukrainian duplication in cinemas and on television at all. These are unprecedented steps that so far have not been taken by any authority in Ukraine. Third. We are extremely outraged by the neo-Stalinistic ideology of the new power. And what Zaporozhye, in the vicinity of Ukrainian Cossacks, is a monument to the tyranny of the Ukrainian people, claims that the present authority is consolidated and has systematically embarked on the path of promoting the ideology of neostalinism. Whoever speaks, and without the support of the President of Ukraine, the Speaker of Parliament, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, all high-ranking Ukrainians could never appear a monument to the Ukrainian tyrant who is officially condemned by the Ukrainian court's decision and cannot be honored in Ukraine when it is an independent, democratic and sovereign state. And the last. The authorities think that we are not all, that Ukrainians are scattered, betrayed, and crushed. That's why we urge everyone who's expensive Ukrainian ideals, to hang on a jacket, to wear clothes, to his car, to his apartment, to the balcony of the blue and yellow ribbon, to put on a blue and yellow flag, to wear a blue and yellow badge, to wear all the colors of our national symbol to make the authorities see what the Ukrainians are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u8	In order for present - day authorities to see that Ukraine is, we are not crushed, we are many, and we will oppose. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u9	Please, the word Leo Biruk has to be prepared for the Flood.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u10	Instead of Biruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u11	Where's Biruk? I can't see Biruk in the hall. Yes, please, Potapov Vasil. Get acid ready. [[B in m in s a l in]] To whom do you give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u12	Please, Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, May 9th, May 9th, the whole of Europe celebrates Europe's Day. Europe Day, i.e. the birthday of the European Union. We didn't hear a word on TV on May 9. Russian soldiers marched on the Crusades, but not a word was said of Europe’s Day. Meanwhile, President Yushchenka's decree celebrates European Day in Ukraine every third Saturday of May. And that's why last year, according to the European Parliament's Euro-Atlantic course, we've certainly gone to Europe and we've become a member of the World Trade Organization, we've had fruitful negotiations on free trade zones, but along with President Yanukovic's arrival, it's very symbolically, very symbolically, that European flags, the Flags of the European Union at the Presidential Palace, at the European Square, and so what are we going to Europe Day, which in Ukraine would have to celebrate? Well, I fully support Deputy Kirilenka, who today spoke about the attack on the Ukrainian language of this quote by the deputy of Kolesnik's former, this cheap clown of the Ukrainian language, the Ukrainian culture. And I would like to fully support him about what he said about Stalin and what we are going with today to Europe's Day when all of Europe condemned Stalinism. Dearly beloved, and I show you, and I show you to all those who look at us. Here's the book, it's sold down there, dear colleagues, “The Things That Changed Peace. ” Please read Hitler's report in Reichstag, where he loves Stalin so much, where he gives the highest compliments to the deal between the Soviet Union and Germany, these are your documents. And when we see a monument in Zaporozhye today, I have this very, you know, naive question. If they wanted to keep such monuments, they should have placed them there on the bypass of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. Which I'm looking at right now, because the whole press has been writing, in particular the newspaper U.K., that it's a space of more than one hectare of land, that the building of a respected communist leader is a few floors, and his people call it a church, so if he were to put those monuments there, the place would be enough. For collaborationism, it is likely that such monuments can be placed behind collaborationism with capitalists. I want to talk about something else. We're going to Europe, yesterday's statement by Interior Minister Mohilov that let's take a seat in Kiev, get Kiev and let them hold a rally and yell and vote. This is the face of a new power. We're going with this not to Europe, we're going with this until we're past, we're going with Stalinism, but 53 percent according to a survey of the Ukrainian people for European choice and Ukraine's path is irreversible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u14	Please, the word Anatolia Kirilovich Kinah is given by Potapov. Get acid ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u15	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! In recent times, appeals for the protection of Ukraine’s national interests, the creation of relief committees, have been very common in Ukraine. I would like to remind everyone that both national interests and the effective development of the State are taking place only when the State has a consolidated power and society and, regardless of the economy, all are able to protect the strategic interests of the State. Of course, the state must be saved. In the past particularly two years, Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, has become hostages to the opposition to mutual destruction. And the indicators that Ukraine now has at the beginning of 2010 are the worst in Europe, starting with the highest price for natural gas in Europe at the beginning of the year on the border of Ukraine-Russia. The average monthly salary of Ukrainians is one of the lowest in Europe. The decline in industrial volume minus 20, the gross domestic product minus 15. Government debt has tripled over the last two years. So the way out of this situation, we're confident, is that only in consolidating the effort and shaping the decent place of Ukraine in the world includes the relationship between Ukraine and our strategic partner of the Russian Federation, starting with an energy complex, very systematic steps towards restoring the status of Ukraine's gas transport system. Discussion with our partners, including the European Union, about the need to suspend some alternative gas pipelines, a special southern flow. Airbuilding, which is based on a very deep cooperation, I remind you that the same aerobics are built by seven countries in Europe, Germany, France, Britain and others. Nuclear energy, diversification of fuel supply through the construction of a modern fuel plant in Ukraine. And many other issues that will be at the heart of both the crisis and the system of highly professional development in Ukraine. I would like to make it clear that an attempt to form the face of Russia as an enemy state will not pass. Ukraine and Russia are two friendly neighbouring states that will continue to develop their relations on the basis of an equal and mutually beneficial relationship, based on strategic cooperation. And to that end, the first system session of the Interstate Commission, chaired by the Presidents of Ukraine and Russia, was held on May 17th. I am confident that only the consolidation of the political will of all forces, as in Parliament and abroad, will create a decent place for Ukraine in the world and call on everyone to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u16	The word is Basil Kiselov. He'll be followed by Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u17	Respectable compatriots! In view of the fact that on April 27, the State Department and the Ukrainian Security Service, in accordance with article 28 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies, were unable to provide conditions for the people’s deputies to exercise their authority, since, under article 27 of the same Law, no one has the right to care for the personal belongings of the national deputies, even though the nards are being inspected at airports like all passengers. On April 27, the law allowed the opposition to move smoke checkers into the session hall and activate them. That is why today I will register a draft regulation that proposes to allow State Security and Security employees to conduct a review of the personal items of the Regulation in order to prevent the transfer to the Supreme Council's session room of items that may interfere with the normal work of the National Deputies and endanger the life and health of the deputies, the staff of the Secretariat and the technical staff of the Supreme Council. It cannot be allowed that the desire of opposition, at any cost, to stop the actions of the law of choice, would result in severe consequences. I would like to remind you that there was already an example of the opposition passing machine guns to the Armenian Parliament Hall and carrying a bloodbath. Who can guarantee that if we are brought in and activated by smoke, we will not be hit by a toll checkers? During the last presidential campaign, many of you, honourable colleagues, have found that when the leadership of the Party of Regions did not support me in the fight against crime, I took a clear stand. And thanks to you too, the situation in Simferopol is changing for the better today. Today, the will of the people of Ukraine has been chosen by the President of Ukraine, who acts on behalf of the people and on the basis of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, whether they like it or not. And if anyone thinks that the Black Sea fleet agreements are harmful to Ukraine, then the election should give us support, trust, power, and denunciation of such agreements. Today, the law does not prohibit access to the Constitutional Court, the creation of the TSC, and the conviction of society that the authorities are doing the wrong thing. And what the opposition is doing today is not for the interests of the Ukrainian people, but for the return to power. I inform you, fellow countrymen, that neither the Constitution nor the Ukrainian Law on International Agreements provides for a prior universal discussion of international treaties, except for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But if it is the will of the Supreme Council to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the contracts that are being made, it will be. But we have to understand that everything has to be a limit. Ukraine’s national interest is not about uniting the efforts of fraternal nations on a mutually beneficial basis in economic, aviation, energy, APC, missile, and agriculture. Unless some of us know that for decades we have been able to build the Hmelnicka AES, unless we are ashamed to say that the Moscals ate our fat, and at Yushchenka’s rule thousands of tons were imported from Russia and Poland. In February 2007, I came from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u19	In February 2007, I asked you from this rostrum to support the government in creating a gas transport consortium, because there is a threat that in 3-5 years our GTS will become a huge pile of scrap metal, because it takes billions of dollars to modernize and reconstruct it, without which it can happen, that it will not make it dangerous to transport, but it may not be possible to transport gas. Instead of creating a GTS and getting permission on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u20	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u21	adopted an amendment to the pipeline transport law, which I'm going to propose so that these standards can be abolished and a gas consortium can be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u22	Thank you. Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u23	And to the end. Last Thursday, I took part in a political debate on “What to Do After the Ratification of the Agreement”. The broadcast took place in eight parts of Western Ukraine. And I was impressed by the fact that by not adding any arguments, but by simply making assumptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u24	Thank you, Vasil Alexiovich. Too bad, that's all. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction. And please, Your Honor, speak within three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected veterans! Three days ago, Ukraine, along with all of Europe, celebrated a great holy date — 65 years of victory in the Great Homeland War. And on behalf of the Communist faction, on behalf of the Ukrainian Veterans, I would like to thank once again the fearless frontal veterans, the heroic partisans and the underworlders, the famous rear guards for this immodest human feat, for this great victory over fascism. Once again, the celebration confirmed the people’s wisdom: it is largely visible from a distance. Communist MPs are convinced that if this golden generation of victorious frontalists had done only one thing in their difficult lives - to break their backs to Hitler's Fascism - each of them deserved a personal monument in life. Fortunately, you have done far greater things, and so your great feat, dear veterans, will remain in the memory of the people for ever. Thank you for him. But developments are forcing me to say, about this holiday and one more. Veterans, those who were respected, and those who were given many good words in advance of the festival. The vast majority of them spoke honestly, from a pure heart, with love. But not all of them were sincere. We found that out again yesterday, the second day after the holiday. It is my opinion that, speaking many pleasant, beautiful words to veterans on 9 May at yesterday's plenary meeting, Mrs. Timoshenko did not give up the BUT faction, in which more than a hundred deputies, I stress no vote in support of Ukraine's law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War. However, this law has established an official procedure for the use of a copy of the Victory Mark. This is the deepest gap between empty words, cynical words, and real, practical things. And this politician thinks of himself as a national leader! Woe to you, Ukraine, if you have such good things! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u26	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u27	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, First Deputy Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Kljev! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Ukraine there continues to be a massive violation of the constitutional requirements of Ukraine. I am referring to the illegal stay of over two and a half years of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Sergio Demchenka. What else do you want to take, Your Honor, from your position?Oh, my God! Unlawful position outside the Constitution of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelmak. I want to draw attention to what is being violated in this country, in our country, in Ukraine, even the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the immediate admission of the President of Ukraine from the human rights issues of Nina Karpachov. Ladies and gentlemen, is it enough to trample around the country?Oh, my God! When we talk about what's upsetting in the hall, in the community about the Black Sea Treaty, I suggest you, ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes, open the Constitution, and find out, show yourself a physical lease agreement. You can't go on what doesn't exist in nature. There is no lease agreement, none of the 4,500 facilities, nor two airports, there is nothing. Including illegally occupied lighthouses. This is evidence of a decision by the Supreme Court of Ukraine that has not been annulled today. We are already used to trampling on decisions and the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Moreover, the authorities went on to conclude that, by Presidential Decree of 16 April 2010, members of the Council of the National Bank of Danilenko, Onichtuk, Polachenko, Sabluk, Fedorenko, Yatsenuk, were also dismissed for seven years. Other people appointed instead are more obedient, but this does not fit the Constitution. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that we have the Law, which is called “On the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine”, which determines that national security is ensured through the implementation of balanced public policy according to the doctrines, concepts, strategies and programmes adopted in accordance with the established order in political, economic, social, war, environmental, scientific and technological, information and other fields. That's what I'm warning you about: if you're breaking the law, you're giving me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u29	I will conclude with those honourable national MPs who would like to either distribute you or print to all the national MPs the text of the National Security Fundamentals Act, and especially to make them study every minister, every government official, every nine of them, at such short notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u30	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Well, ten seconds, please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u31	To give an article to this law is once. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you promised everyone, all of Ukraine, that you would sign a statement about. the decision to set up a commission of inquiry on the Interior. I'll tell you that the state of affairs is not yet published and is not yet available. Please take steps to implement the requirements of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u32	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, next will be Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u33	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. In recent times, the press has been actively discussing the texts of treaties between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, which, unfortunately, no one has really seen among the legislators. And today, what we've been given is some kind of purpose, some direction that is completely incomprehensible about what parameters are going to be implemented. I would like to point out that one of the most actively discussed issues is the problem of the possible creation of a Ukrainian-Russian joint venture in the aviation sector, that is, aviation. I would like to point out that at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union in Ukraine, there were 90,000 people working in Aviaprom. It was a complete system: the Kyiv Aviation Plant, the Kharkiv Aviation Plant, 410 factory in Kiev, a helicopter assembly in Zakarpat, a helicopter repair plant in Konotap. These were serial companies that produced technology, and so did Aviaprom, which includes the engine building that is now actively passing through Russia and selling our engines there. We have our own aluminum industry, we have composite materials, we have Anton's KGB known in the world, we have a lot of teaching institutions and so on, we have a whole complex. And when it comes to what we can or cannot do today, I want to say, over 90 percent of the aviation industry's location in Ukraine exists. We've got gains, we've sold Iran's equipment kit to get them to release planes according to our technology, we've got an active move to the Chinese market today. We're doing the latest AN-148 technology today, AN-170. And here's the question, why do we have a union, where we have 49 percent, and it's clear that the whole industry is being passed over, and Russia is giving, or Russia is going to have 51 percent, and it's not clear what the contours of the part that is being given to Russia are going to be. What is more, I would like to ask everyone with common sense — and what is called for by the Russian side to be the leader of Russia’s citizens. Not a talented engineer, not an outstanding inventor, but a citizen of Russia. Do you not feel that there is a very specific approach here: to seize what was created in Ukraine, to take away and forever to take away our state, one of the seven world powers that are releasing planes, that possibility. So I would like to quote the end of the statement of one person who ruled Ukraine for a long time and who had already evaluated the gas agreements, about, I think, and here he would say: “This is the kind of chat you need to have in order to go to such agreements, depriving your own state of such outstanding technical achievements and possible, and today existing enterprises, as well as huge profits.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u34	Yuri Gnatkevitch, faction of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It is difficult to be a speaker in the Supreme Council when a national deputy speaks, while other national deputies do not listen and engage in what he wants: they sit around, they wander around the hall. I had already had the opportunity to say that I was a member of the Supreme Council for the first time, when the Communists were actually in power, we had silence in the hall, everyone was sitting in the hall, and the opposition was sitting in the hall, and no one was interrupting, and everyone was visiting, like the students were being disciplined, the Supreme Council meeting. And there was one tool in the opposition: it was a protest to get out of the hall. No balloons, no balls, no flags, no checkers, nothing else. But these are such good memories. And now, as my constituents tell me, you have in the Supreme Council a mess, whoever wants to, who does what anyone wants to do doesn't come. I'll explain why we covered the flags last time. It's not because we're so undisciplined. We have noticed that a number of our deputies who have entered the coalition are not in the hall, and their cards are voting. This indignant us, and we covered the flags. What logic is there between the fact that when a deputy comes out of a faction, he is deprived of a parliamentary mandate, and when he becomes a coalition, that is, in power, that he will do even worse, more immorally, he will not be deprived of it? Dear colleagues, President Yanukovic seems to want to put the state in order. I think order should be given from the Supreme Council. I have noticed one interesting thing, that the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy states that he swears to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, and KZOT, is that not the law? What, it does not say that the working book of the Ukrainian National Deputy should be in the Supreme Council? And as it turns out, the work books of the National Deputies are in the Supreme Council, and they're in business: who are calves, who are chickens, who are lambs, who are metallurgy, who are coal industries, who run whole industries. How can this be so, fellow believers?Oh, my God! I read in KZOT that if a man didn’t go to work four hours a day, we can let him go for a walk, and some not for months but for years! And a few men were present only at the acceptance of this oath, which they so successfully violate. By the way, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have heard that I have read more faithfully in the Rules that the appearance of the deputies is provided by the Chief of the Supreme Council and that every MP should report in advance whether he will come to the meeting or not and why he will not come. So I think if you're told, and if you're on the board there, you have to let us know who there is, who there is, what there is. I think, your honor, that we may no longer be able to communicate with such a Supreme Council? Maybe we can change the law and not choose capitalist deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u36	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u37	The Communists were up against the capitalist ministers. Maybe they'll support us so that there won't be any capitalist deputies here and that MPs, like one, will go to the meetings of the Supreme Council committees and be disciplined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. With regard to the suggestions made in the presentations, the secretariat is requested to prepare appropriate assignments. During Teren’s performance, Peter Simonenck’s name was, please, a microphone, the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u39	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues have apparently recognized that the Great Victory is inextricably linked to Stalin's name and the role of the Communist Party in the organization of victory and victory, not only in the Great Homeland War, but all have recognized that the Soviet Union has won the Second World War. Stalin's role as the organizer, as the leader, as Stalin's role as the person who showed a personal example of how it should be done. Why are they so afraid of Stalin today? Stalin is spoken of by those whose political idols served Hitler, whom the Red Army, under Stalin’s leadership, broke down miserablely. And the world has recognized that these are Hitler's captors, who are now setting up in Ukraine without asking the people of Ukraine, the monuments of Shuhević and Bandera. Europe has already collapsed, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has taken decisions condemning this. Why are you afraid of Stalin? If Stalin had seen what you had done with Ukraine today, you would have improved the well-being of the Ukrainian people with saws and axes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you about Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin's statement on the need to sign the decision to create a TSC. This is about the honourable colleagues who were voted on by the TSC to complete their work by April 28, 2010. There is nothing to sign, for you are well aware that the commission will no longer have any authority. At the same time, I ask the Secretariat to prepare a written reply to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin on this matter. In accordance with the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable national deputies, we turn to the question: Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the course of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled to be signed on 17 May 2010. The rapporteur is Ukraine's First Deputy Prime Minister, Andri Petrovich, who heads the Interstate Commission for Cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 240 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules for Information, are given up to 20 minutes to answer questions from national deputies to 20 minutes. If he's willing to speak to the committee, I mean the Foreign Affairs Committee, within 10 minutes, and then we accept the information. Please, Andrew Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine informs the Supreme Council of Ukraine about a series of Ukrainian-Russian bilateral documents prepared for signature during a visit to Ukraine by the President of the Russian Federation, Dmitri Medvedev, from 17 to 18 May this year during the third meeting of the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission. The projects have been prepared for the development of agreements reached at the level of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine with the President of the Russian Federation, Dmitri Anatoliyevich Medvedev, on the basis of an official visit by the head of the Ukrainian State on 05 March this year to the Russian Federation, a working visit by the President of the Russian Federation to Ukraine on 21 April this year and further high-level contacts, as well as the Sixth Committee minutes on Economic Cooperation of the Russian-Ukrainian Inter-State Commission of 30 April 2010. . The issues related to the problems of expanding cooperation between the two countries for signing at different levels have been addressed by 5 draft documents, namely: First. Draft agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian state border. The other one. Draft agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the use and development of the Glonos navigation satellite system. Third. Draft agreement on interbank cooperation between the “Ukreximbank” and the VAT bank of the WTB. Four. Draft agreement between the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation on the first priority measures for the development of scientific and educational cooperation for 2010-2012. And the fifth. Project of the Cooperation Programme between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine and the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation for 2010-2014. Closest overview of the projects mentioned in the document. First. To date, the only inter-State document to be signed by the parties is the draft agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian state border. The agreement is to create legal framework for demarcating the land of our state border with the Russian Federation. The issue arose from the acquisition of Ukraine’s independence and the need to properly shape and equip the state border. It belongs to the competence of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the practical implementation of the relevant decisions of the higher authorities, the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The majority of those present in the National Deputies Hall know that the issue has not been resolved for years. The conclusion of this treaty is a priority issue for our nation and has been constantly placed in the order of the daily Ukrainian-Russian relations. However, due to political circumstances and the absence of a constructive interstate dialogue between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, the signing of the agreement has been continuously delayed in recent years. Last but not least, the responsibility for this rests with the previous authorities, the authority that essentially destroyed and destroyed by its public statements and the destructive actions in the Russian direction, to undo the practical issues that are fundamentally important to Ukraine. Chronology of the question is next. In 2003, an agreement was concluded between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border, which laid the basis for the transition to the next phase of demarcation. In May 2005, Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko invited Russian President Putin to begin the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian border and to form a joint Ukrainian-Russian demarcation commission. On December 17, 2005, the Ukrainian side officially informed the Russian side of the signing of the relevant decree of the President of Ukraine. In November 2006, the first session of the International Cooperation Sub-Committee recorded the achievement of agreements on the transition to work with the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian State Border and that a joint Ukrainian-Russian demarcation commission should be established. In June 2007, the Russian side confirmed the proposal to establish a bilateral Ukrainian-Russian Treaty on the Demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian State Border. In 2008 and 2009, there was an exchange of relevant diplomatic notes, but the work related to the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian border was not carried out. It is now that, thanks to the efforts of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there are serious positive developments in relations between the two states, both sides can begin the practical process of demarcating the land area of the State border. In accordance with the agreements reached during the expected visit of President Medvedev to Ukraine from 17 to 18 May this year, the agreement is scheduled to be signed. To mark the State border in the area and prepare the demarcation documents, the draft agreement provides for the formation by the parties to the joint Ukrainian-Russian demarcation commission. The agreement will allow: first, to initiate the process of completing the contractual and legal framework of the State border with the Russian Federation; to carry out tasks and ensuring sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of the State border; third, to ensure compliance with the State control regime; and fourth, to promote the prevention of illegal migration, drug trafficking and other illegal activities related to the crossing of the State border. This is evidence that Ukraine and Russia are ready for serious work and are able to resolve all the issues that primarily suit the interests of our party in a constructive and practical way. The other one. Draft Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use and Development of the Glass Navigation Satellite System. The agreement foresees the implementation of a project from the creation of the Glonas system, which will allow for the integration of the scientific and technological potential of both countries and a global technological level in the field of satellite navigation. Both Ukraine and Russia are equally interested in this project. This, by the way, is evidenced by the minutes of the third, fourth and fifth meetings of the Committee on Economic Cooperation of the Russian-Ukrainian Interstate Commission held by the previous government in 2008-2009. Ukraine’s navigational equipment needs up to 100,000 units a year. In the future, this need to take into account proliferation, the use of space technology will increase. The main areas where satellite-navigation equipment will be used are transport, agriculture, nadra and land use, tourism and other areas. A plan of action has been developed to implement the project and work on its implementation has been initiated. But because of the absence of an intergovernmental agreement to create a legal basis for such activity, the Russian side had stopped implementing the plan of action. The National Space Agency of Ukraine agreed with the interested central executive authorities of Ukraine, and in November 2009 "Roscosmos" was sent to further develop and agree with the relevant ministries and departments of Russia. At the present time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's signing of the treaty is under internal agreement. The Russian side also completes procedures for internal state acceptance of the draft agreement. The signing of the agreement will accelerate the introduction into the national economy of modern technologies using satellite navigation systems created and adapted by Ukraine. Third: draft agreement on interbank cooperation between “Ukreximbank” and “WTB”. The agreement is aimed at achieving a long-term strategic partnership between both sides with a view to: the first is promoting export potential development in both Ukraine and Russia; the second is implementing international investment projects; the third is interaction in international financial markets. The agreement will allow for greater cooperation in the banking services market between Ukreximbank and the Bank of WTB, namely: firstly, the implementation of each bank's own projects and joint projects in the area of commercial and project financing; secondly, the comprehensive long-term cooperation and strategic partnership of banks in the Russian, Ukrainian and international financial markets; and thirdly, it will enable the above-mentioned banks to take advantage of the possibilities of participating in international financial markets for the implementation of joint commercial and investment projects for their customers. Today, the draft agreement is ready to be signed at the level of host entities. The fourth is a draft agreement between the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation on the first priority measures for the development of scientific and educational cooperation for 2010-2012. The purpose of this agreement is to ensure further development of scientific and scientific and educational cooperation in directions of mutual interest. This will be achieved through the joint preparation and implementation of bilateral projects, as well as the regular exchange of information on public policy in the field of education and science in both countries. This agreement will contribute to the expansion of direct links between the higher educational institutions and scientific institutions of both countries, the expansion of exchanges between teachers and scientists for joint scientific research, internships and higher qualifications, the implementation of measures aimed at substantially increasing the admission of citizens of both countries to the higher educational institutions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The signing of this agreement is planned at the level of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The text of the draft agreement was transmitted to the Russian side after the third meeting of the Subcommittee on Humanities Cooperation of the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission. The agreement procedure for the draft agreement is currently being completed and transferred to the MSA. This agreement is expected to take effect from the date of signature and will be in effect until December 31st, 2012. Fifth is a project of cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine and the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation for 2010-2014. In connection with the completion of the previous interim agreement on cooperation in the field of culture, the Russian side approached the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine with a proposal to develop and sign an updated project on cooperation in this area. The proposal was supported, after which the parties developed a new cooperation programme between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine and the Ministry of the Russian Federation for 2010-2014. The programme foresees concrete projects and directions for cooperation between Ukraine and Russia in the fields of culture and art, as well as the creation of favourable conditions for their implementation. This refers to the development of cooperation in the sphere of stage art, cinematography, library and museum affairs, decorative, self-active and circus art, folk industries, the preservation of historical and cultural heritage objects. In order to establish direct contacts between music institutions and concert organizations, there is an exchange of performers, music teams and specialists, an expansion of links between the creative associations of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, and other measures. Ukraine's Ministry of Culture and Tourism has received confirmation of Russia's willingness to sign an updated project of programmes. Dear National Deputies! All contracts prepared for signature are aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of bilateral relations in the areas indicated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! The statement is complete, please sign up for the question, if any. It's a recording. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u43	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Anatoly Petrovich! Ukrainian society is concerned about previous information on the signing of energy cooperation agreements, such as “Rostom”, “Energo Atom”, NAK “Naftogaz” and “Gazprom”. Yet today, no words in your information about this have you informed the Ukrainian community. So here's the question. Does this mean that the Ukrainian side has refused contracts that severely restrict Ukrainian independence? Have you decided in any other way not to do so in a public way without informing the Ukrainian public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. The five agreements I have made will be signed. As far as energy is concerned, these agreements are being worked out, and they will not be signed on May 17-18. And our Cabinet of Ministers is public. And this is what you see, I'm going to report all of these agreements that will be signed by the Supreme Council before they're signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u45	National Deputy Perestenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u46	Please give the floor to Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u47	Alla Alexandrovska, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u48	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Andrej Petrovich, I would like to say frankly how proud the Harkovchant is that Harkov has taken such a serious step towards strengthening the real good-neighbourly relations between Russia and Ukraine. These proposals, which you are actually informing the Supreme Council today, indicate that we have begun to implement specifically those statements that have been made. That's exactly right. I see here direct benefits, including economic benefits, for Kharikov and for Ukraine as a whole. We'll teach students from Russia, it'll make it easier for them to join our colleges. In short, it's all positive and positive. But. I'd like to ask you a question. Today there is a border issue. Border areas enjoy preferences: residents can easily cross the border. The border areas are deprived of such opportunities. Please consider this question and address it positively with the Russians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u49	This issue will be addressed during the work of the Boundary Demarcation Commission. And we've restored our interaction with the border regions of Rossi, as it used to be. That is, the interaction between the border regions of Ukraine and the border regions of Russia will be simplified, of course, and the people's pass, and the region as a whole is an area. So, I think we can solve all these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u50	Igor Greene, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u51	Andrew Petrovich, can I ask you a question? Here. Andri Petrovich, a Russian press report by Russian experts that, in parallel with the agreement on the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Russian border, is preparing a review of the delimitation of the maritime border in Tuzla, Tuzla. I have the first question, do you know what the negotiations are about the border in the Kerchny Strait area and what the state of the negotiations on this issue are? And the second question is, it refers to wish rather in Ukrainian-Russian cultural exchange or convergence. Unfortunately, very often under the so-called convergence of cultures, you know, as John Duba said: “There is not internationalism, there is Russianism.” What concrete steps for development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. After the signing of the agreement on the demarcation of the state border between Ukraine and Russia, a group will be established on this issue and within this group and will deal with issues including Tuzla's hair. As for cultural exchanges, I don't see any problems, Ukrainian cultural singers, actors, will be speaking in Russia, Russian in Ukraine. What kind of problems? I don't see any problems with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u53	John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u54	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Andrew Petrovich, Medvedev just won't come. And you notified the deal today, as you said, which are prepared for signature, even though you rejected this thesis by those who are undergoing internal procedures. It is not clear in these agreements what conditions are laid down, what Mr. Greens asked today. And it's not clear what the context is. We understand very well that Medvedev will be looking at questions and high-intellectual enterprises and other things. So I want to ask you, won't it work out like it did with the sugar factories and the milk factories when the Russian business came in, destroyed as competitors, and destroyed our businesses? And do we not tie ourselves to Russia dead because of the information network? If we want to integrate, let us integrate ourselves into European space, which is the impression that we are only going to bond with one Russian system. And then we're really going to get influenced, just like in banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. We're going to integrate into the European Union, and you're going to see it, maybe in May, maybe in June. As for businesses, I don't see any problems in these agreements regarding any state-owned enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u56	Vladimir Polochalo, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u57	Dear Mr. First Vice Prime Minister, I am referring to the draft Agreement between the Ministry of Education of the Russian Federation and Ukraine. It's about scientific cooperation. What kind of scientific cooperation are we talking about? When this year's budget, this millennium, if you want, the lowest rate in the history of post-Radians Ukraine is 0.43 of GDP. At a time when the Russian Federation is funding very actively programs such as nanotechnology and nanomaterials, implementation. Technology. You've cut 20 times the funding of these programs. The Academy of Sciences did not receive one billion 200 million dollars, for which was the Academy of Sciences punished? What kind of cooperation might there be in such unforgivable financing? That's the first question. And the second. Does this covenant mean that Russian historians of Ukraine’s history are supposed to write for our schools, as mentioned earlier? You know, this idea has already been rejected by Ukrainian historians as impossible and simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u58	The history of Ukraine will be written by Ukrainian experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u59	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u60	Andrew Petrovich, I have a question of the following character. In the framework of the prepared document, which you have enlightened for us, there is a question about the cooperation of the “Ukreximbank” and the WTB Bank. You know, Ukraine, well, I don't think I have statistics, no enterprise that would transfer its production power from Ukraine to other countries, and thus win markets for its own production or export its own production, no example of me, unfortunately, I don't know except for certain private enterprises. Why, in my opinion? Because there are not enough cheap credit resources to stimulate support for Ukraine's export capabilities. Like what? In Italy, the company “.”, there’s Hermes, an insurance agency or other agencies that operate in most countries. Is it not envisaged in the framework of cooperation between the Eximbank of Ukraine and the World Bank of the Russian Federation to create special funds that will allow for the export of technological capabilities and transfers, including to the Russian Federation of Ukraine, and thus enable producers to grow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. This is precisely what is envisaged to create such conditions for our Ukrainian enterprises to enter not only the markets of the Russian Federation, but also together with Russian enterprises to enter third-country markets. And one example is going to be, one of the first examples is the Novokramator Machine Factory. You know, we had a joint meeting of the Ukrainian-Belarus Commission about two weeks ago, and one of the questions was the supply of walking excavators to Belarus. And we are now working on the issue of guarantees, State guarantees for the Novokramator Engineering Plant for that. In order to obtain sufficient credit resources for him to start issuing, he continued to issue the doors, and it is 14 or 15 stepping excavators, here, and to supply Belarus to the markets. The same projects are now being prepared for our machinery companies, chemical industries, supply to the markets of Russia, Belarus and third countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u62	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u63	Dear Anatoly Petrovich, I have a particular professional question for you. Was there a point in the gas agreements about Russian property immunity in Ukraine, its int touch within Ukraine for joint ventures where there is a share of Russian property? Or are such appropriate conditions with Russia being prepared? Why do I ask that? If such agreements have been signed or signed once, then any enterprise created with a share of Russia's state ownership will automatically fall within the jurisdiction of the Russian Federation and become completely unmanaged and unmanaged by Ukraine. So these discussions about us creating any business that benefits the Ukrainian economy don't make sense, because we're legally losing it. I ask you whether these agreements have been signed or are they being prepared in the future? I mean, there's no jurisdiction in our courts of Russian-owned enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u64	I got it. Such agreements were not prepared or processed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u65	National MP Krawchuk passes the right to ask Victor Terrence, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u66	No, well, Andrew Petrovich, you know, I like you, an honest word. Well, that's the cynicism of saying that the government is transparent. The tatemna, as in the game of preference, was then prepared and signed by the Treaty of the Black Sea Fleet. What did the public know about this? And so, I have a very simple question. If, on May 17, or a week later, completely different agreements will be signed: agreements that destroy our hydropower, our atomic energy that destroy the aviation sector will be signed something else, it doesn't mean that it's very simple that all agreements are written in Moscow, you bring them here ready, you take them under the cards, and you forgive me, it's just, you know, you sign it with the Lakeside smiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. You know, there's a lot of speculation going on about the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. Let's face reality, reality. Let us consider the issue of energy, here is one question. Construction of two atomic blocks at the Hmelnick nuclear station. This issue was raised by our Government as early as the sixth to seventh years. Then went, contractually trained eighth to ninth, the beginning of the tenth year by another Government. We're finalizing these contracts now. It's a two-block construction at the Hmelnick nuclear station. The terms there, that's credit, that's clean credit. No transfer of property, it's not signed in 17th or 18th. Therefore, there is no surrender of Ukrainian interests. Because these issues were handled by both Governments. And so on each of the questions you have raised above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u68	John Kirilenko refers to the question of Vladimir Yavorowski, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u69	Dear reporter! Well, first of all, I'd like to ask you as First Vice Prime Minister. Only a foreigner can call it Ukrainian. Remember, the Ukrainian people are right. That's just the way it is. We listened, not to your performance, but to your advertising break. No specifics. I have a specific question for you. Please tell me, where will the Kerchin Strait go? Don't tell me this is going to be decided by the commission. This must be decided by the government and the Ukrainian Parliament. Where will the border of the Azov Sea go? Second question. You kept talking about what the previous authorities were preventing you from signing there. Can you give me one of the anti-Russian words of Julia Timoshenko? And the last. I'm in charge of the Committee on Culture. As the story will be copied under the dictates of such professionals as you said, Tobacco, Toločko and others, we already understand. But what can cultural cooperation agreements be signed today? Today, as you said, Russian singers do not come off Ukrainian scenes. Today, Russian cinema has actually flooded Ukraine, and so be it. Russian today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u70	Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u71	But you're an expert in culture. Ukrainian singers in Russia will now perform. What kind of problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u72	Irina Heraszczenko, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u73	Dear Andrew Petrovich, I think you were sincere when you said that the Kabdin was preparing agreements for Russia and trying to be transparent, to be transparent with the Russian side. But here the Russian side is scared because, indeed, the Ukrainian Kabmin didn't know about the Black Sea Fleet agreements, and so the full expert for our Prime Minister was Putin's statement about the merger of Naftogazu and Gazprom. Would you like to know if Medvedev's exhibits arise, how will the Ukrainian side work here? The second question. Please tell all the leaders of the countries that visited Ukraine to visit and place flowers in the monument to the victims of the Holocaust. Is there a Medvedev program that honors the memory of the victims of the Holocaust in Ukraine? You were talking about history textbooks that would be written by Ukrainian experts. Does this mean that the common textbooks of history written by Ukrainian experts will be in Russia? And one last question. Will the Ukrainian television channel finally be included in the cultural program, as promised by Mr. Medvedev Yanukovic, in Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u74	Thank you. You've asked me a lot of questions. You know about the Medvedev program. I don't know what his program is, it's still working. As for the expert, only those documents that have been processed at the state level will be signed. There won't be any exhibits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u75	I'll tell you about the textbooks. Let's write textbooks and publish, because I want to tell you that the history books of Ukraine I've been breaking through the Ministry of Democracy to give you a three-year graph. Here's the whole question. And we had a democratic government. And I'll bring it to you myself. I'll get it on the manual. Upstairs, “Blood of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u76	I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u77	Oleg Lazko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you'd be better off for the Academy of Sciences to break through the one billion two hundred that the Yanukovich government took from the Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u78	There's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u79	And you're vice president of the Academy of Sciences, and you didn't break that money. Instead, they have broken in other directions that they know here in Parliament. Dear Mr. Kluv, I have specific questions for you. The last issue of the “Whistle of the Week” published papers on the expansion of Ukraine and Russia's cooperation in the field of energy. In particular, what the Russians are offering, these are the letters signed by the Russians, the orders of our government officials to process them immediately, are in fact the deposit of Ukrainian energy -- both atomic and hydro -- and heat stations -- under Russian, they say. Please tell us if the Ukrainian society can be sure that, like the devil of a cigarette case, during a visit to Medvedev, this deal will not come up again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u80	Please answer, Andrew Petrovich. We have an agreement, Your Honor, within a minute, you need to form a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u81	I told you there wouldn't be any exhibits. All questions are dealt with at the interstate level.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, please, we're not discussing publications in the newspapers, we're discussing a report and we're asking questions to the First Deputy Prime Minister, we're discussing information. Let's get out of this. Alexander Goodima, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u83	Alexander Goodima, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, I won't be on any other subjects, I'll be on topics you've already dealt with in your interview. You are the author of the idea of transferring the legislative regulation of the Ukrainian gas transport system to the Russian Gazprom concession. You even promised that those changes would soon be made to Parliament. Do you still think that the transfer of Ukrainian GTS to Russia in any form is a good thing for Ukraine's national interests or its energy security? That's the first question. The second question is the area of electricity. Russia's proposals have a common generation and a common export. We know that in the last couple of years, we've been getting huge amounts of money from the export of Ukrainian electricity. Don't you realize that a Ukrainian gold chicken that gives Ukrainian golden eggs purely to Ukrainian businesses is a good thing? And if we run into the Ukrainian export potential of Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u84	We worked with you for quite a long time on the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee. And you know my position, everything about GTS and electricity exports. I understand you're in opposition now and you're taking my word for it. I will make it clear that if there is a question of a gas transport system, it will not be possible to transfer the gas transport system to the Russian Gazprom. If it comes to the future fate of the GTS, we will ask about the establishment of a gas transport consortium, the more triangular gas consortium, the countries of the European Union, Ukraine and Russia. We will then bring the issue of the operation of the gas transport system to Parliament, the Ukrainian Parliament and the transfer to concession. The law on concession and transfer to our consortium's GTS concession will be passed, and the issue will then stand. They won't, then there won't be a question. Everything about electricity, you know very well my personal position: that energy and electricity exports to the European Union are a great prospect for Ukraine, and it must be clearly developed. And what we created once with you, the Burstin Island, we created with you these hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u85	Thank you, Andre Petrovich. Time's up. I now invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Today, Europe and the whole world celebrate Europe Day, the United Europe Day, the European Integration Day, which gives Europe the greatest chance to save and secure development in the 21st century not only for the avant-garde countries, but not only for the globalizers, the representatives or the liberal total globalism of pan-American or Asian globalization, or for the Eurasian countries, which are essentially ultra-modern forms of imperialism. And today, more than ever, Ukraine and its citizens are thinking about the historical destiny of the Fatherland, what is happening and what might happen to Ukraine in the first quarter of the 21st century. And the Ukrainian Parliament, as the higher branch of legislative power, should answer these questions, because it is the Supreme Council that is responsible for the formation and control of the principles of internal and external policy taken together. Today’s discussion shows once again that in an era of globalization, the world has changed. And foreign policy, foreign policy, external economic interests and factors have priority, imperative importance, and predominant internal development factors. And I have the first question for the government: does the Government understand that in Ukraine, the Constitution, too, the National Security Principles Act 2003 treat these national interests of Ukraine that way? And does the government of Ukraine take fully into account Ukraine’s national interests by going to a massive, external act of signing a whole series of contracts? The Committee on Foreign Affairs, other branch committees are either free to discuss the matter. I will not rely on the media, but every citizen knows that no initiative from Ukraine has been taken in the negotiations in Kharkiv, or in the negotiations that will be held in Kiev, no initiative of the Government of Ukraine of these 17 expected agreements, these are all the initiatives of our great neighbour. And the question is, is that normal? Does Ukraine not have its own initiatives? And does it not have proposals to protect its national interests? Regarding the information provided, the committee had no opportunity to consider it, although it insisted on how it was promised that the information would be provided for consideration by the committee. Today, the committee will consider the matter in more detail, but it is surprising that all citizens know about the 18 contracts that have been prepared, and we have been given the shortest information, in fact a five - treaty advertisement, which is not the key to Ukraine’s development strategy. This was the question of demarcating the borders of Ukraine and Russia, and the question is: Why did our neighbor actually deny it for 19 years and not allow it to demarcate and demilitarize borders? Why has the government not reported demarcating just the part of the Ukrainian-Russian border today? Why is it not about demilitarization, demarcating the final maritime border in the Azov and Black Sea? And why is not demarcation even on the land section of the border in seven years? Even after the war between nations, the demarcation and demilitarization of borders is three times faster. And why is there a need for a joint Ukrainian-Russian demarcation commission today? Why are we walking along the line "dance the enemy," as the master says, who will run this commission? And the main question is, what did Ukraine lose, which is more than $100 billion, because of the lack of demarcation of state borders? Of course, it's about the navigational system. This is interesting for Ukraine, but this is the neighbor's first priority. And where do Ukraine get massive investments in this very investment project? Why do we call interbank cooperation commercial when it comes to "eximbank" as a state bank, and we subordinate it to the Bank of Foreign Trade of the Russian Federation? Here's a question. Scientific and educational cooperation. Is the government of Ukraine going to make sure that at least one or a dozen Ukrainian schools where millions of Ukrainians live were created and operated normally, as we have Hungarian schools, Romanian schools, Moldovan schools, and schools of other national minorities? The question was whether other agreements would be signed. On this issue, the esteemed first vice-premier gave such an answer that these agreements would not be signed. That is why we accept it in faith, and if these agreements are signed, we will consider them secret. It's about both thermal energy, and hydropower, and nuclear energy, and uranium industry, and aviation industry, and shipbuilding, and space industry, and gas-fired gas-transit*** a global European actual*** network that has a length of 44,000 kilometers across Ukraine only in its territory. In particular, the initiatives taken by the neighbouring state to develop the internal market for gas, such as gas, and gas storage, which is a strategic object for defence security, are of particular concern to the defence industry. But the biggest concern is that in these agreements it is about the expansion and development of the neighbouring state of the vast, existing technological and technological potential of Ukraine. How can we appreciate these initiatives? Clearly, Russia seeks to protect its strategic national interests. Many of us know that there is a program for the use of Russian energy as a means of political pressure on so-called energy diplomacy. Clearly, there is a strategy in Russia called “the last battle for Ukraine”. We call on the Ukrainian Government to be a Ukrainian government and to protect all available measures of national interest in Ukraine. Without that, there is no need for a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the matter. Apparently, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did the right thing when it brought this problem to the fore. Obviously, we should always do this because we are the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is responsible for the formation and operation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, it would probably be good if we kept talking about the national interests and interests of the country in front of the parties. Obviously, we're on our way now. Question completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, what's the procedure? Well, please, in a minute from the faction, let's now express your thoughts. Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u89	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I am addressing you and Andrija Petrovich, Andri Petrovich, I am addressing you. I would like today's meeting, the information of the Cabinet of Ministers, to conclude that there are no other issues that may be being prepared in Moscow today, as was the case with the Black Sea fleet, that cannot be signed. This precludes the possibility of all signed documents on May 17 of this year in connection with the arrival of the President. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to make this conclusion to some extent today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u90	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Andrew School, Mikhailo Chechetov, Oleg Zarubinsky, and Mikola Kravchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u91	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I haven't been able to draft a regulation on information, but now I want to propose a draft decision on this information. It's very short, I'll read it. Order of the Supreme Council on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the course of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. After hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the progress of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled to be signed on May 17, this year, the Supreme Council decides: First. Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the progress of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation is considered incomplete and insufficient. The other one. In view of this, it is considered premature to sign agreements with the Russian Federation on behalf of Ukraine during the official delegation of the Russian Federation to Ukraine from 17 to 18 May 2010. And the third. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. Please put to the vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u92	Yes, Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Well, I'd like to, first of all, we've listened to and read that information that can't really raise any more serious questions, it's loyal enough. The question is that from the rostrum, Andri Petrovich said that the Kerchen Strait would not be surrendered, that the Ukrainian Airway would not be surrendered, that the Ukrainian Atomic and Hydroelectric Powers would not be given. Andrew Petrovich, you're ready. I'm addressing you, Andrew Petrovich. Andrew Petrovich, listen, can you hear me? Are you willing to resign, or are you willing to resign, in the event that the air traffic will be turned over to the Kerchen Strait, Ukraine’s energy supply? You are willing to resign because you guarantee that this will not happen. You're an honest and decent man! You have your word! Give it to me now and retire when your boss doesn't listen to you. So basically, I think it's perfectly normal. Do it now and we'll see if you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u94	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Do you know the difference between us? You're ruining it all the time. You destroyed the economy. You've ruined your relationship with Russia. You destroyed the country's image in the international arena, dropped it below the plituse. And we're recovering. We're restoring the economy. We're building a friendship between Ukraine and Russia. We are normalizing our relations with other countries and are now referred to as partners of the largest nuclear Powers. And one more thing. It was quite true that there was no reasonable alternative to Euro-integration. But in order to minimize both financial and temporary costs, it is necessary to maximize the potential of our normal, good-neighbourly trade, political, cultural and humanitarian relations with our main strategic partner and eternal neighbour, Russia. Here's the key to success and we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u96	Oleg Zarubinski, then Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I'm, indeed, on the point of procedure, because this question has now been asked from the procedure. I believe that the procedure today is well-kept, and I believe that the procedure for public information through the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be followed for the future when such resonant issues are being considered and when enough serious agreements are envisaged. As far as this is concerned, I would like to ask those people who are saying it today to be consistent, because they did not say it when in January 2009 it actually seemed like a Ukrainian economy with a little bit, when 50 billion cubic metres of gas were to be taken to Russia for much less, but to pay for all this gas, and when the base rate was not defined as Russia and Ukraine but as Italy and other countries, $450. That's when it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u98	Mikola Kravchenko and Alexy Kiselov and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u99	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Unlike you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think we've shown weakness as a coalition in relation to the national patriots who were given the opportunity to drown today, as they wanted, in Russia. And I'm surprised that they didn't think that Russia was a state that had a sense of dignity, and it could send us along with these national patriots for allowing themselves in the Supreme Council Hall. They kept quiet about the positive, no one said how they handed over the gas island to the Romanians, no one said a word. I want to say that the positive thing is that Russia has finally seen the blunt damage of national patriots, who today are stupidly leading, continue to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u100	Aleksium Acid. From the non-faulty.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! First, according to the current Rules, the information is accepted as being known. Period. The other one. Neither the laws of Ukraine nor the Constitution of Ukraine provide that every international treaty must be in line with the Supreme Council. It may be ratified or not ratified. It's also a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Let me summarize our discussion. First of all, let's make a deal today, now that we're removing all grounds for mutual accusations of national interests. That we will defend these nationals, we will defend all national interests. Because we have in practice that no one is so well aware of the fact that it is Ukraine’s national interest that it is the people who are in opposition. So we switch places in diameter. Let's remove that and move away from the mutual accusations. I'm gonna say it again. Obviously, we did well when we decided to listen to this information. And now finally. Dear colleagues! Every one of you has an official document signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I read: “In preparation of mothers for hearing at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 May of this year, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the course of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the preparation of bilateral agreements, which are scheduled for signature on 17 May 2010, we send a reference to the issue mentioned.” Signature: Prime Minister of Ukraine. What else do you need? What other guarantees are needed? I hope, and I believe, that all that's been said here, and that's the only thing that's going to be the subject of signing. Next question. Viacheslav Kirilenka’s proposal, proposed by Viacheslav Kirilenka I must say that according to article 240, paragraph 6, after the matter has been concluded, the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decision if it has been prepared in due time. So now it's out of voice, to be too sorry. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, now out of voice, unfortunately, and we have decided that the Rules are the law, and we will act in accordance with the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I think you and I are the only ones who understand this problem. And to put it to a vote now, not to make a decision, and to blow up the hall again, I don't think we need it. Dear colleagues, so we heard the information. Question completed. Let us now turn to the following questions. I am announcing a draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] [[Registration number 3037]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Is it possible that under a reduced procedure, you need to consider the matter? Dear colleagues, the reporter suggests that we address this issue in a simplified manner. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[11:39:36]] For 235 Decision taken. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Honorary National Deputies, the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transport and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is called upon to improve the standards of the current Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transport and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 31 May 2007. During the period since the adoption of this law, Ukraine has completed the process of entering the World Trade Organization and has been forced to do so, as has every country that joins this influential international organization, to take steps to protect its internal market from dangerous and invalued products, in line with WTO standards and principles. This is the situation that requires us to review urgently the Ukrainian Law on the State Biosafety System in the creation, testing, transport and use of genetically modified organisms, which are one of those regulatory acts that regulate the safety of production and which, as demonstrated by the practice of its application today, is imperfect, because beyond our consideration as legislators, there are a number of important problems. Since time is very short, the reduced procedure, I'll say it's about changing the introductory part of the law. Paragraph 5 is supplemented by the mandatory labelling of GMO products with genetically modified organisms. The law is complemented by Article 11.2 ‘Risk setting’, which defines four levels of risk for the detection and assessment of the potential impact of genetically modified organisms on the environment, taking into account risks to human health in the execution of gene-engineering products. I also propose that we address the issue of whether an organ should be authorized for the safety of genetic engineering. I see it as a national commission to be set up at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I also propose to supplement the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u104	Please finish, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u105	I'm done. To supplement the law by Article 15.1 “Victories to the control system”, which determines that control of food products other than food and feed produced, consisting of or containing GMOs shall be carried out by means of mandatory transmission by the manufacturer, supplier, importer in written form of information, declaration of availability of GMOs. What I'm saying is that this approach, taking into account the observations that are made during the consideration of this issue, the previous, and the expert conclusions, will ensure the protection of Ukrainians, our children, the generations to come from not getting sick, from the fact that genetically modified organisms don't form from us any other substance than human, not the one created by the Lord. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u106	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, chairman of the committee Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, reviewed the bill and supported the need to amend the Biosafety Act aimed at improving the use control system in Ukraine for products containing genetically modified organisms with a view to avoiding harm to human health and the environment. At the same time, the bill contains a number of shortcomings that are highlighted by the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of our apparatus and ministries. This applies to the establishment of national biosafety committees, the requirements for improving the level of risk and the requirements for control systems that cannot be subject to this law. But the project also contains a number of reasonable suggestions that enable it to be supported. This is the author's proposal to define the powers of the executive authority in terms of technical regulation and consumer policy to ensure uniformity of measurement when defining GMOs in food products, raw materials and so on. The bill also proposes to introduce labelling requirements for GMO-containing food in accordance with the European Parliament and the Council of Europe Directive on genetically modified products and feed. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee considers that the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the National Biosafety System in the Creation, Testing, Transport and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, submitted by National Deputy Carmazin, can be accepted on the basis of further work on the Committee. Thank you for your attention and for your support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u108	Anatoly Ivanovich, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Gregory Smythech, please, from the rostrum. Or a microphone? From the rostrum? Yes, please. Then Vladimir Yavorowski will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The problem of genomically modified organisms that spread in Ukraine, if you at first think it doesn't exist, I'd say it doesn't just exist, and it's a menacing character. Unfortunately, no one in Ukraine today knows how many products are imported, which are grown, which are distributed, how they are processed, and so on. No one has this particular number, no one is monitoring it, no one's counting on it. If you think that Ukraine should have a clear register of these products, unfortunately there is no register, and if you actually do, take such products as corn, for some information, up to 50 percent of all the corn that is sown is a genetically modified product in Ukraine. That's why. And on the other hand, no one knows the consequences of using these. and the processing of these products, both by animals and by humans. Unfortunately, such a safe attitude towards such a problem on the part of the legislative body, because the bill has long been in place, and I support Karmazin's initiative in that part that this problem should be discussed long ago, should long be tightened and placed under control, unfortunately, this issue has been very prolonged. So don't go there. Considering the shortness of procedure proposed by the author, and this should have been considered in full procedure, I believe that this issue should be considered and taken into account today. Why on the Basis? Because there are some shortcomings. But between the first and the second readings, this bill should be further worked out with regard to these years that have passed, in these last two years, which the bill is in the Supreme Council, and then worked on and adopted. Because I'm stressing that this is a problem that is relevant to Ukraine and it's getting terrible size, and the state can't stand outside and not look at it, and then we'll do some.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u111	So I support this bill in the first reading, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u112	Vladimir. She's passing on the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! I wanted to draw attention to two problems that our colleague Karmazin's bill raised. Strategically, or by content, there is no doubt that we need to define a further strategy, how we can act and protect our citizens from the worsening situation in the consumer market. But tactfully there are a few questions that I think might be worth discussing and perhaps these questions will be the subject of a discussion between first and second reading, if the bill is adopted in the first reading. First question. The law seriously expands the authority of the central executive authority on technical regulation and consumer policy, which is logically correct. But I'm going to give you my own experience of communicating with this body over the last few months, which in 30 days has not been able to answer me why they don't check the implementation of valid laws in the Queen, or in the Queen, for example, restrictions on the sale of alcohol or tobacco. Let's expand them another ten times, and they'll only work depending on who gives them bribes or who doesn't give them bribes. Obviously, not only authority but also responsibility should be foreshadowed. With regard to the second position of the special body of the new National Commission institution, I am absolutely convinced that this is the wrong way, if we don't force those institutions to do this, to exercise their powers, and to add new structures. I would support the position of our scientific expertise and our lawyers, and I would position this National Commission as an advisory advisory body at the Cabinet of Ministers. What would that do? The Cabinet of Ministers is fully responsible, the National Commission determines those priorities and draws attention to those institutions that do not comply with existing legislation. And directly, the State Committee on Technical Control of Consumer Policy, and others are responsible and they're doing what we predicted. So with such warnings, I think you might want to think about further work on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u114	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u115	I object for one reason that the law is clearly lobbyist. You will note when it was submitted and who was in power at the time and who headed the State Standard. And everything will be clear and visible right away. And the second. The problem needs to be addressed more broadly. Because we're not assessing our entry into the S.O.T. We refuse, however, to take Petnicki, deputy minister of the former, who in due course has been breaking into and talking about the amounts of money that will fall on Ukraine. And now we're creating parallel legislation to prevent the STO from polluting our territory. The point is that we need to resolve and cancel those items that Yushchenko secretly signed when he joined SOT. It was about the main that the certification of the products was prohibited. That's it. And we need to dance from here, not create extra laws. So if we look at the problem of the SOT and say, we recognize that we have entered it by non-equitable members, that we have entered it as a State that has been dragged into it, and we have opened up a territory to import all the debris. And everything that's happening today is ultimately the result of our joining the STO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Yuri Carmazin, please. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to pay attention to the question of conscience -- who sees what kind of lobbying stuff. But I would like to draw attention today to the fact that the law in force provides for the state health and epidemiology expertise of GMOs to be carried out, this is article 10. I'm asking you, it's coming true today, isn't it? The ones that are used in open systems. It's not happening. Is there a state oversight and monitoring of biological genetic security measures for man in the creation, research and practical use of GMOs in the open world? It's not happening. And that's not how things work out. That's why I'd like to get out of this position and I'd like to propose any kind of commission, whatever advisory body it is, whatever it is in Kabmin, you're creating. Well, we have to let it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is proposing to re-read it for the first time. Thus, the draft Law will be put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Security in Creation, Testing, Transport and Genetically Modified Organisms. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] Registration number 3037. Please vote. [[11:53:59]] For-126 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion for re-reading the bill, registration number 3037. Please vote. [[11:54:25]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the next bill of 2537 is the amendment to the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on guarantees of social protection for Ukrainian citizens outside Ukraine]] Registration number 2537. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Feldman Alexander Borisovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz. Is there a Kulczynski?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u120	Yes, perhaps we should put him under a reduced procedure, do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u121	No, it's not. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:55:26]] For 259. Decision taken. Mikola Georgievich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u122	Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine”. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, submitted by the National MP Feldman, and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. [[on guarantees of social protection for Ukrainian citizens outside Ukraine]] The bill proposes to exclude a general government pension insurance provision that provides for the termination of pension payments for the entire duration of a pensioner’s stay abroad and the payment of pensions while abroad, if provided for by the International Treaty of Ukraine, from the obligation given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft Act is to ensure the realization of the right of Ukrainian citizens who are abroad to be appointed and granted a pension in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. The Committee agrees that the right of citizens to a pension is usually based on their work or other socially beneficial activities in Ukraine. Therefore, the question of the assignment and payment of pensions while abroad requires a solution to their constitutional rights. At the same time, it should be noted that the exclusion of these provisions will not ensure the achievement of the stated goal, since they need to settle the issue of the order and the payment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens who are abroad. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the legislative proposal can only be supported through the development and consolidation of an active mechanism for the payment of pensions abroad, similar to those provided for in international treaties and agreements. I don't think there's going to be any objection to the national MPs to support the bill in the first reading. And by the second reading of the National Deputies and the Committee on Retirement Issues, develop an active one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u124	In addition, this bill is essentially directed to the Constitutional Court’s decision on this issue of October 07, 2009, which declared these articles of the Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance unconstitutional. I'm hoping for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u125	Thank you, Milo Georgievich. Dear colleagues, there is such a request. We will now conclude this consideration and then announce a recess. No objections? Please sign up for a bill if you need to discuss it. Please give me the names of the national deputies on the board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u126	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of, in fact, providing, at least, at the level of the countries where these pensioners, who come from Ukraine, live. It is more moral satisfaction or moral requirement that they have worked for many years in Ukraine and for Ukraine’s sake. After all, many and wartime frontists, children of war who have completed full - time service and who have been retired for more than 30 to 40 years under different circumstances do not receive such a pension. Of course, there's no register of those people, there's no amount or amount of what should be paid to these people abroad -- it's a difficult question. But at least not to consider this issue, not to find a mechanism for implementation, a mechanism for paying off these pensions that are actually made in Ukraine. Therefore, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u127	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u128	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, I would like to say that there is no such problem in Ukraine, but, unfortunately, I can't say, because, indeed, this problem is, it exists. People, citizens of Ukraine have found themselves at different times and for different reasons abroad, and the problem of pensioning this category of citizens exists. And I would like to draw attention to article 49 of the National Pension Insurance Act, which is called the “Stopping and Repayment of Pensions”. Retirement is terminated by the territorial authorities of the Pension Fund or by the court’s decision, a colon, and here comes the list. Well, let's say that if the pension is based on documents that contain unreliable data, it's understandable. In the event of the death of a pensioner, that's understandable. In the event of non-retirement for 6 months, it is also clear. But when we call another norm, for the duration of a pensioner’s stay abroad, unless otherwise provided for by an international treaty of Ukraine, we agree on the duty given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the point is that there are certain things in the law that really need to be improved. But I'd like to say something else. This problem, this bill only solves part of the problem. We need to go wider. I mean, the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should work more actively with their colleagues in countries where Ukrainian citizens live in order to make bilateral agreements on this problem and solve this problem, because by removing this standard, we are taking some step and creating some kind of vacuum, and we really need to fix the problem. So once again, I stress that this problem really needs to be addressed. And for this to happen, you have to adopt this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u129	Mikola Tomenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, there are two injustices today in pension insurance that need to be settled. The law only raises questions, but it does not yet settle. The first injustice. We have Ukrainian citizens who have moved to 20 countries where the issue of their pension is settled well or poorly. So it's not settled in all other countries. There are different principles in these 20 countries. Or on the basis of international agreements where we pay their pensioners, they pay our pensioners. Or, let's say, on the basis of another type of so-called proportional principle, where there's the same element of accounting as paying them pensions. Now the question is. If we automatically say that our nation is going to pay pensioners in the other 20 countries, this is obviously another principle that applies to these 20 countries. And so I think that by supporting this idea, the law won't work if we just listen to the author and we just delete part 1, paragraph 2, of article 49. What should we do next? So if we're supporting this first-reading bill, then we have to think about how will it really work? Or let's say that this principle that works for our pensioners in 20 countries makes us imperative. But even then, we won't have to force the signing of interstate agreements in a short period of time. Because those countries, for example, would not agree to sign. Or then, we're saying that these 20 countries, let's say they operate in a coordinate system that's going to be distributed to all pensioners who are citizens of Ukraine. So in any case, it's direct, direct support for the proposal of the National MP Feldman doesn't solve the problem he's preparing for. So I think we should do it the next way. The first reading should be accepted. And to involve professionals, especially experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and people working in interstate relations today, so that this is not just a declaration that we love Ukrainians, pensioners who live not in our country, but a real mechanism that we are helping them in a social sense. So I think that in the first reading, we should vote and work actively for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! We have 49 articles that change, and in 51 articles, there's the first paragraph, there's the second paragraph, and in the 51st whole part, they just don't fit the Constitution. Why? How can the pensioner’s body be determined by the law to stop following the decisions of the Pension Fund authorities in the case of a person living abroad? And if she's being treated there for any other reason. It's not a big deal. He's a Ukrainian citizen, he earned that pension. Now we have a discriminatory norm of 51. And it's absolutely right here that Feldman stressed this, and it's bad that we haven't seen this before that when we're abroad, the pension is paid if it's under an international contract. It's a violation of the Constitution again. So I would ask that we all join in adopting this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is making a warning about this bill. Therefore, the voting order will be similar. First. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on guarantees of social protection for Ukrainian citizens outside Ukraine]] [[Registration number 2537]] [[12:06:12]] For-119 The decision is not taken. I'm declaring factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 67, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 24, Communist faction – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 1. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading. [[12:06:48]] For-149 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 74, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 28, Communist faction – 27, "Litvina Block" – 18, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I warn the secretariat that there may be exclusively Ukrainian national deputies in the session room. And I'd like a government representative to know his place. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of Wednesday’s schedule. Now I'm going to ask you a question, and you're going to consider it. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on overcoming social orphans in foreign-worked families]] [[Registration number 2578]] The proposal is, your honor, to consider this bill in a simplified manner. For this matter, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u135	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to say our position on the previous bill that was discussed in the Supreme Council for the lunch break. This is a bill that was intended to be removed from the Act “On mandatory State Pension Insurance” by the law on the termination of pension payments to Ukrainian citizens, which has been registered in Ukraine for the entire duration of their stay abroad. There is an appropriate decision by the Constitutional Court, which stipulates that this rule, which terminates the payment of pensions to citizens when they leave abroad, is discriminatory. And to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court, this law, which today was proposed to support the Supreme Council, was also drafted. Unfortunately, the majority, with the exception of the smallest fraction in this majority, did not vote in favour of the adoption of the law at least in the first reading. What is it? The point is, millions of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to review the reduced procedure for the draft Law, registration number 2578, for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on overcoming social orphans in families working abroad. Please vote. [[12:43:20]] For 211 Decision taken. Elin Viktorovn Shishkin, both from the committee and as one of the authors of the bill, will present the report and the co-report. So four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u137	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! To your attention, a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on overcoming social orphans in the families of citizens working abroad, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexander Feldman. Today, there has been a critical situation in Ukraine where children who go abroad to work as well as children in single - parent families, where parents, again, have to pay considerable attention and a considerable amount of time to earn livelihoods, cannot take sufficient care of their children and raise them at the proper level. Such children in Ukraine are called “social orphans, ” that is, in the case of living parents, they are actually left alone. Moreover, in such a situation, a person who looks after such a child without care or care may not be able to protect his or her child’s rights or legal interests in certain cases of crisis. Such a problem can be solved through the introduction of a temporary care and care institution that is proposed in the bill. Such an institution already exists in a number of countries, such as the Republic of Lithuania, where the Civil Code provides for temporary custody of children whose parents are going abroad for a long time. In particular, it is suggested that a number of articles of the Civil and Family Code should be amended, and I stress the amendment to article 151 of the Family Code, according to which parents have the right to contact the guardianship and care body with a joint application for the appointment of a caregiver child for a period when, for good reason, such parents are unable to perform duties regarding the child and the appointment of a guardian or caregiver. In this case, temporary care is provided. If the child lives with one of the parents, the parent with whom the child lives makes a statement. At its meeting of January 15, 2009, the Legal Policy Committee considered the bill. In the Committee’s view, these changes will contribute to the protection of the rights of a child under the care, care, and supervision of the custody, upbringing, and training of such a child by the custody and care authorities. With regard to the protection of the child’s interests, in particular, the committee supports changes that presuppose that the guardian has no right to commit crimes on behalf of the temporary caregiver and that the caregiver cannot consent to the commission of the actions of the defendant, who has been placed under temporary care. The implementation of the bill will not result in additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis, as well as that it should be delegated to the Committee to further develop it and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. In addition, I will point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has expressed its support for this bill and its adoption as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Thank you, Elina Victorian. Please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u139	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. We support the idea of adopting this law in the first reading, because in the case of a large number of people working abroad, there is a situation where many children become orphans when parents are present, at best care for their grandparents or neighbors. And of course, the legal protection of such children should be as an organ and care and. Ask a loving school principal or go to school, how many children are in each class, who are far away from home and practically have no share in the educational process, except that they send some funds that the child uses on his own. Thus, the creation of such a system in Ukraine is a real emergency. And we can thank the drafter for that idea. We will support it in the first reading. And thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u140	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u141	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! We sometimes consider laws that are very eloquent. In particular, the draft law on the elimination of the effects of social orphans is very eloquent, as it is the result of the work of today’s authorities. Because it is also deeply symbolic and that the author of the document is represented by a representative of the political forces who, while in power, produced this social orphan very actively. I understood the situation with the orphanage that followed the Great Homeland War. Because people died on the fronts of the Great Homeland War. I also understood other situations related to orphans. But today’s situation with orphans, what does it result from? And it is due to the fact that the political forces that were in power until recently, not only destroyed the economy, but also pushed our citizens abroad in search of a piece of bread. And their children, who remain in Ukraine during this period, are shown to be social orphans. And that's why the state has to normalize this situation, look for weights in order to eliminate this situation. Of course, the appearance of this phenomenon does not add honor and humanity to the state. Nevertheless, the consequences of the domination of certain political powers must be eliminated. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this document in the first reading. Of course, there are some warnings about him. It needs to be improved. But nevertheless, in principle we support the line of acceptance of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u142	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! There are different statistical estimates of how many of our citizens work abroad. The least is 2 million people, most of them are called 7 million people. There are sociological surveys, studies are serious enough to show that only 6 percent of those abroad who are forced to work outside their homeland have no children. Others have children, and in most cases two or three or more children. Thus, even taking an average of 4 million people who are abroad and counting those who do not have children, it turns out that more than 3 million families remain in need of, indeed, special attention. And one more moment. And that's what the explanatory note says is pretty solid, by the way, to this bill, that out of the 10 teenagers who are called, out of the 10 teenagers who are in the criminal police force on minors, they're the ones whose parents or parents are abroad and they're missing for a long time. And another number, I think it's important because only 2 percent of those who work abroad work there legally. All of this creates the problem that colleagues have already discussed because parents try to compensate for the inability to raise a child and to perform their social function and mission by sending money. Money, as evidenced by the discussion, by the way, does not always go for positive purposes and is used positively by teenagers. Hence, this bill must be adopted, perhaps really today. And in this context, I would like to say that it's the right thing to do is to point out the science and science, where it's said to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u144	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u145	That the Institute of Temporary Care and Care for Children is in place, it is not entirely correct that is proposed in the bill. Because automatically, according to current legislation, care stops when a minor is handed over to adoptive parents, and, in this case, it automatically stops as I said, care. So I suggested, this is a fundamental moment to rule out this "temporary care", "temporary care". In principle, the basis is to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u146	Orestes Mutz. Microphone, please. Well, on the rostrum, please, on the rostrum. One minute from the factions that didn't come forward, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Today, we are considering two important drafts, based on which a common social problem is forced to bribe our citizens abroad. But I would like to point out to my colleagues that we are now talking about overcoming the consequences of what the previous authorities left us: Prime Minister Timoshenko and President Yushchenko. Despite the crisis, workers did not return to Ukraine, for in Ukraine the crisis was deeper than in Europe. This is confirmed by the figures. Over the course of 2009, about $3 billion was transferred to Ukraine through a system of money transfers. Despite the financial crisis, the flow of money entering Ukraine from abroad has proved to be record history. Yes, last year, with the help of Western Union and other operators, almost $3 billion went into Ukraine, 16.25 more than a year earlier. This increase in an uneasy crisis year is explained by an increase in the number of Ukrainians who have made their earnings abroad. There's a lot in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u148	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u149	It is known that a large number of employees have left Lviv, Ternopil and Ivano-Frankiv regions. As far as the Ternopil region is concerned, the main reason for my income is that the average wage remained the least in Ukraine. So more than half of the population in Ternopolska is rural, which is the highest unemployment rate in the village. In order for our citizens to return to Ukraine, our President Viktor Yanukovic’s program, one of which is the return of migrant workers to their families. If the standard of living of Ukrainians on the land of origin is worthy, they will hardly be able to make a living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u150	Thank you. The bill is closed. From factions, who has not spoken, insists on speaking? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u151	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our faction will vote in favour of this law. We're hoping that a Communist colleague who told us that the previous authorities have given birth to this social orphanage, so you, as today's participants in today's government, hope you'll do everything you can to ensure that there's no such thing as a social orphanage. And in six months, when you lose that power, let's see how you've managed to do that. I'd still like to say for the previous bill. Millions of Ukrainian citizens who have worked their entire lives have earned a pension, but out of one life’s circumstances, they are now deprived of the opportunity to receive that pension. This is unfair to those people of a respected age who have worked their entire lives on “communism buildings”, on other large buildings – and today they have no opportunity to receive a pension. So I think the task of the Supreme Council's morals is to go back to this bill. Is it possible that the Party of Regions does not vote in favour of this law because they are not their constituents? Because these people are abroad and what is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, regarding the offer. There's already been a speech. Regarding the proposal for a return to the previous bill. Since the Supreme Council did not support him, he is regarded as being rejected. And we can go back, if the author works, to the next session. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing that the bill be based on registration number 2578. The main scientific and expert management agrees with the committee's proposal. So I'm putting to the vote, honourable colleagues, the issue of adopting as the basis for the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts, please vote. [[on overcoming social orphans in foreign-worked families]] [[Registration number 2578]] [[12:57:48]] For three hundred Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring their standards into line with ILO Convention No.87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, Reporter – National Deputy of Ukraine Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic. [[concerning the enforcement of trade union rights]] [[Registration number 1431]] Coroner is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Maybe under a reduced procedure to consider. May I? Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[12:58:49]] For 253 Decision taken. Mikhail Yakovich, please report to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Dear TV sets and radio audiences! Convention No. 87 of the International Labour Organization, which is ratified by Ukraine and is basic, provides that people of employment have the right to unite in their association to protect their own interests, and that is, these interests are organized to represent trade unions on behalf of the people employed. Employers have the right to unite in their associations, as in the entire civilized world, sitting at a round table. These are the principles of social dialogue and those that are not dealt with in the legislative order through collective agreements, agreements, and, or general agreements, all resolve issues, wage levels and so on. But at the same time, there are no balanced laws. And for example, the basic law on trade unions, which stipulates that trade unions acquire legal status from the moment they are created, and this corresponds to the ILO Convention, this bill contradicts the Civil Code, also contradicts the Law on Registration of Legal, Physical and also contradicts the Law on Public Organizations. In this way, I propose to amend these legislative acts. In addition, it is envisaged to simplify the taxation system for trade unions, simplify the reporting system before tax authorities, abolish the utility taxes for trade unions, as members of employees, employees are taxed when they receive a salary and, in this case, the second time they pay such contributions. There are also a number of issues that will unlock the work of trade unions and enable effective protection of hired workers. For this reason, the Constitutional Court ruled that Ukraine’s legislation should be brought into line with international standards. The decision of the Office of the International Labour Organization was also made in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u154	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u155	What we see, we have this unbalanced legislation, it fundamentally discredits our state at all international levels, and it does not allow people to feel protected. Please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report is done. Now, here's the report. Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! What is involved is a very principled one. Today, according to article 11, a trade union that claims its status, that it is either national or local, or regional, should legalize, that is to say, pass the registration in the Ministadt and obtain the right status. What colleague Wolintz has to offer. He suggests that article 16 be edited as follows: The trade union is formed. In her charter, she wrote that it was all - Ukrainian or local. And right now it's legalized and it's getting this status. So that's how this standard of legalization is reversed. Moreover, the issue of a witness is likened to a registration. It's a simplified system. It actually fits the 87th convention. I mean, the committee's offering to take it as a foundation. But as a person who worked for 12 years in trade unions, I want to say the following. That we now have more than 200 trade unions and trade unions, and instead of the fact that trade unions unite, consolidate, there will be more trade unions today, more loyal trade committees and leaders than members of trade unions. And this rule allows a loving professional to say that it's all-U.S., which means register, legalize me, give room, give room, give collective agreements and much more, bring it in, I'd say unorganized. But considering that this is the case in many countries and considering that our committee has supported this proposal, I simply have to make a decision to the committee, the committee proposes to take a stand on the ground, because there is a observation by the Executive Board that I propose to reject, from the Ministry of Justice with warnings, from the Ministry of Labor with warnings. And I think we need to take it as a base, and then we need to work on it, so that the unions really are consolidated, and not everyone is the master on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up to discuss the bill. If we do not want to discuss it, we will vote then. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u159	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Of course, there are different ideas today about how to view the role of trade unions in society, how to further develop them, whether to consolidate them, or whether to move on to a trade union-based really professional orientation. Previously, trade unions were created: the metal industry, the mining industry, the woodworking industry, and so forth. And that was true because it was a professional community of people working in one field, not just a set of different professional types of organizations that then unite and become a school of communism, as it was before. So what we're talking about today is that obviously we have to focus on the European traditions of the development of the trade movement when it's not limited in its organizations. And those to whom cabinets should be given, or to whom preference should be given, should be removed. The union itself has to organize all its infrastructure, including material and technical security. And what belonged to all the people when it was created as a professional property certainly needed differentiation and distribution. And that's why monopolization doesn't do any good. Because we can't have one of the unions that owns the health centers that own the camps there, including the children. Therefore, we would like to really support this document in the first reading, and we would like to find a formula for a fair treatment, as well as a tolerant attitude toward all the new trade unions that have been formed. Because we can't bring it all down to monopolization, as it used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u160	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u161	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The bill is useful. For that reason alone, I wanted to make a statement that, you know, our Constitution provides for equal conditions and rules of registration. I mean, if we're allowing this bill to facilitate registration of all-U.S. unions, trade unions and so on, why don't we write, why don't we mention social organizations, creative alliances and so on? [[I'm the one who's addressing the drafters.]] I mean, I'm for the equality of all the subjects in this market. So they want to -- let them form trade unions. So what we do know, even in this room, is that some of the heads of the unions, for example, the coal industry, are the NPH trade union, is the PRUP trade union. Can you imagine the head of an enterprise, which is a coal mine, where every day there could be death, and that's the kind of trade union he could make a deal with -- with PRUP or with NPH? So, really, a bill can be useful. But given what I suggested to the authors, if they're working on the first reading. I think I don't know the faction that this bill in the first reading can be supported by taking into account the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u162	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to hear that there are only 80 present in this room. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have to do something with an appearance, something to do. There is the Law of the Rules, and let us keep it. So there are national deputies who, apart from the oath in general, have never been in the hall. And they're in the factions that are now shouting. Well, then, dear friends! I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that now the tradespeople who are being told that there is a great deal to be agreed upon in nine establishments. That's tax, that's the Justice Department, that's three social security funds, that's the Pension Fund, that's the Registerer, that's how much bureaucracy is done. This is, of course, contrary to the International Labour Organization Convention on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, which is ratified by Ukraine and in accordance with article 9 of the Constitution is part of national legislation. Of course, we're being shown as savages abroad because they can't understand. I'm going to tell you that the actions of the authorities are now directed at a solid illustration based on the party sign and the fact that people are being expelled and offered to write statements. The last stock of trade unions, I got from the Belgrade-Dniestrowski port, where they're just asking question-port unions. We say we're going to be jamming bulldozers and so on, and it's more than one port. What if this redistribution is made. It is good that this law proposes amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. Where it is complemented by a new article 186. 7, which provides for sanctions in the event of a breach of the law of the trade union. Because that's what we need to do. I'm in favour of adopting this law and against those conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to reject the bill. The proposal is put to the vote and the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring their standards into line with ILO Convention 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise. [[concerning the enforcement of trade union rights]] Registration number 1431. [[13:10:16]] For 133 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u165	The factions? Please. Region Party 5, Timoshenko Yulia Block, 115, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 13, Communist 0, Litvina Block 0, non-fractional 0. I'll put the second to the vote a motion for re-reading the draft law, registration number 1431. [[13:10:56]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Bill, bill rejected. [[Registration number 1431]] I'm announcing a draft decree to mark the 450th anniversary of the Pésopnic Gospel. Registration number 4391. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. The focal point will be the head of the Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich Committee on Culture and Spirituality. And, dear fellows, let's say that the proposal is: to consider the simplified procedure of this document, which we are all the only ones in what needs to be accepted. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to support it. [[13:11:54]] For 276 Decision taken. Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u166	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues! Your opinion is on a bill for the adoption of a decree marking the 450th anniversary of the Transsplendent Gospel. In August 2011, 450 years of age have been completed since the completion of the Pésopnic Gospel — an outstanding manuscript of the Old Ukrainian language and the sixth - century art, one of the first Ukrainian translations of the Canonical text of the Four Gospel. In March 2009, I and the group of deputies representing Equality addressed the leadership of the Plain District Council and the district administration to make such a decision. [[Head of Mikola Svintozelski]] [[Mikhailo Nikituk]] The purpose of this bill is to ensure proper institutional, financial and information conditions for the implementation of a set of measures related to the preparation and celebration of the marked Jubilee, to support the State-level initiative of the Plains District State Administration, the Plains District Council and the Plains Region to mark the 450th anniversary of the Przespnic Gospel. Generally speaking, when it comes to such a monument as the Pésopnic Gospel, which has been in existence for five years, I want to say the only thing that is the basis for this decision to be supported. It is on the Pésopnic Gospel that the oath of allegiance is given to the Ukrainian people and the oath of observance of the Constitution by all the Presidents of Ukraine. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u167	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u168	so that they can imagine here those present in the hall, which today represents the popular point of Perezpnica, which was once a city, a historic city. I invite everyone to Equinox, right there, to Perez. There's no museum, there's no stone, there's roads broken down, there's no gasification, there's nothing, there's no museum, there's an old house. So I imagine how all the presidents who swore allegiance to the Ukrainian people and the observance of the Constitution refer to this particular historical document. Therefore, our good will will will change the situation in order to give due consideration to the first memory written in the English language and to what is the Ukrainian Transspite Gospel. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u169	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u170	Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! Indeed, we Ukrainians have a unique historical monument, a remarkable monument that may not have other nations. Indeed, the beautiful woman of Anastasia Zaslavsky came up with the idea of translating the Gospel into the English language of the day. And this idea was brilliantly realized, showing the level of our culture back then, not only of the translation culture, but of the language culture, but it's a wonderfully crafted book. That's different. Such books then went nowhere — virtually nowhere. The Bible’s fate is also deceiving. It began to be written under Isiaslav, in the village of Dvorec, now the province of Ravenna. Later, it was transferred to this town called Pésopnice. Then she disappeared for a while, and she did not know where she was. Then, with the efforts of John Mazepa, she reaches Preyaslav, where she was held in her arms by Taras Shevchenko. Later it is passed on to Poltava. Today it is stored here, in Kiev, in the library of them. Vernadian. Here the author of this decree spoke of the fact that it is on this very book that our presidents take an oath of loyalty and Ukrainian ideas and the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian people. And, of course, it would be most appropriate for at least one of them to think that this book should be revised. To be overlooked as a rarity and perhaps even to give it to others, for today it is not just pieces of paper and so forth, but it is a unique, wonderful book. Of course, our presidents could take an oath and, let's say, the Constitution of Philip Orlik, the first constitution in the world of democracy that was written. But since it happened that it was the Perspicious Gospel that became what, then, was the place where the hand was laid.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u172	That's why it's hard for me to imagine now, among the regionals, and among the communists, people who don't vote for us to celebrate this amazing book next year. Once again, I emphasize that it would be expected that each president would then be reprinted with a thousand copies of this book so that it would not be in this single copy. As a result, we will now see how you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u173	Thank you. I'm only asking without calling "I'll see" and all that. Come on, we're all aware of the need to make this decision. Is there a need to discuss it? Let's, if there is, sign up, please. Please put your names on the board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u174	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. We support the adoption of the Order on the State Level of the 450th Anniversary of the Transsplendent Gospel. This is a testimony to Ukraine’s high culture. At that time, the small town of Ostróg, Perezpnica, Vladimir, and even others were overly high in culture, copied with the kings of Europe, and demonstrated their high art. And this is indeed a masterpiece, this book was passed on by a small circulation of the Moscow Patriarchate. And so the suggestion that we should do a reprint of this book deserves attention. This is indeed a masterpiece that the Ukrainian people are proud of. And a high witness is the acceptance of the oath of the presidents of Ukraine right in the Peresupnic Gospel. So these acquisitions are, in fact, high, they need to be supported. At the same time, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no way we can take a decision to mark the memorable dates in Ukraine. We lose a lot every month because of the Jubilee. For example, May 10-11 was the 80th century of the Council of Sperms in Volodymyr-Wolinski. Such architectural structures may not have other European states. Therefore, in the next plenary week, we need to return to this issue without politicization, confirm these memorable dates, and be proud that our Ukraine has such monuments of culture and such people, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u175	Thank you. Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Catholic Church has not translated the Bible into national languages. In Western Europe, in the Middle Ages, if a third - timer tried to study the Bible, he could be charged with heresy. Unlike them, the situation in the Eastern Orthodox and Greek churches was quite different. The Greeks actively promoted the translation of the Gospel into national languages in order to make it easier to Christianize Gentiles who were then in the darkness of ignorance. And the fact that the Gospel has been translated in Ukraine is a fact of our history, a fact of our culture, a fact that testifies to the high spirituality and culture of our ancestors. Therefore, I think there is nothing to discuss here, but all necessary measures must be taken. And perhaps not only the current document, but all necessary measures to promote this fact of our history, our culture and the proximity of our church to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u177	Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u178	Please tell Michael Kossev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u179	Mikhail Kossov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u180	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear colleagues, I am entitled to a small memory. Just as preparations were being made for the acceptance of the oath by the first President of Ukraine, Roman Lubkovsky, then MP, and I, Mikhailo Kosov, were proposing that, apart from the Constitution on which the President was to take an oath, the book of the Pésopnic Gospel was also introduced as the largest shrine, historical, spiritual Ukrainian people, and at this shrine the President was to take an oath. So I think there is no reason, as it were, not to vote in favour of holding this Jubilee on a national level, for it is also related to many other aspects of our history. Well, first of all, it's printing, and in general, bookmaking, book decoration. And second of all, it's about making the right kinds of paper, parchment and so on. There, a museum of cultural history is formed by forces, including a well - known actress, scientist, and cultural figure, Olga the Mantis. And I think that if we take this decision, it will help because it will move away from the place, a matter that needs very broad state support. Because once again, it's a history of culture, printing and bookmaking, it's both landscape and other such problems of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. If you allow me, I'm going to read a text that's more clearly worded, less emotion, less just a document. [[I'm going to the drafters.]] And I would like to think about it properly, considering that we should not write "recommend the Cabinet of Ministers," and this document should be, let's say, binding and twice we should not advertise in 2011 the Transspective Gospel. If the Supreme Council has fixed it, there is no need for the Cabinet to announce it. In this regard, I will read the text and ask to take it as a tribute. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the observance at the national level of the 450th anniversary of the Pésopnic Gospel. In August 2011, 450 years of age have been completed since the completion of the Pésopnic Gospel, an outstanding manuscript of the Old Ukrainian language and the 16th century art, one of the first all-U.S. translations of the Canonical text of the Four Gospel. Taking into account the unique social, political, historical and cultural significance of the Pésopnic Gospel, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: first, to mark at the national level in August 2011 the 450th thing of the Pésopnic Gospel. Declare 2011 the year of the Ukrainian Book of First Instance. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within one month of the date of the adoption of this decision to form an organizational committee for the preparation and implementation of the measures. [[on the observance of the 450th Graduation Gospel]] To provide for the State Budget of Ukraine for 2011 funding the preparation and implementation of measures to mark the 450th item of the Transspice Gospel. Third. The State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine to provide wide media coverage of measures to be carried out in connection with the 450th anniversary of the Transseptic Gospel. Organize thematic television and radio broadcasts dedicated to this event. Four. To recommend to local government administrations, local government authorities to prepare and conduct in cities and other populated locations arrangements for the 450th anniversary of the Pésopnic Gospel. Promote participation in national and local cultural and artistic activities related to the celebration of this anniversary, youth and studenthood. And the fifth. Control over the implementation of this decree is to place on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on cultural and spiritual issues and on budgetary matters. Is there no objection? We're voting on the basis. I am betting on the vote on the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as set out in the proposed text. [[Registration number 4391]] [[13:27:26]] For 376 Decision taken. Paul Silent. Microphone, please. You probably don't have a card there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u182	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! George Prokopchuk pointed out a few very important points in solving this topic, which is called the epiphany of this great historical event and its significance in the spiritual life of our nation. The first was the idea of creating a museum of the Perez Gospel, a museum of “One Book”. In view of the fact that I was directly involved, as a member of Parliament, in the markings of this event, the idea of the "One Book" museum is urgent. And that's why right now you have to write it down in order to do that. Now you need the project documentation, and everything else you need to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u183	Yes, please, Oleg Lazko. Now we're going to agree that we're not going to make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u184	Oleg Lazko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I don’t think there will be any MPs in the Supreme Council who won’t vote in favour of this decision, since it is a remarkable monument to the history of Ukraine, the printing of first editions, and so forth. I have a specific proposal for a draft ruling. That's where you propose to put control of the committees on spiritual and budgetary issues, we need to remove the Committee on Budget Affairs. What to Control? We have the government's mandate to anticipate the expenditure on this date in the 2011 budget, and the other cultural measures are the Committee on Culture. What's the budget committee for? When we look at the budget, then we'll see if it's a line or not. That is, to remove this rule of control from the Committee on Budget Affairs. Moreover, when the 2010 Budget Act was passed, all that could be taken away from the budget committee, the control functions, the government of Azarov took away. Do you understand? So there's no actually a budget committee today, and it's disgruntled and deprived of the control functions that are provided for by the Law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u185	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I fully agree that this is a really great date, and this date has to be perpetuated in a different way. I'm just suggesting here in the draft decree. No, but it's very important to me. It's a coin scraping. Coining by the National Bank of Ukraine with gold and silver that would perpetuate that memory. Because we used to carve coins from all over the place. I feel that this must be done. Not only a Jubilee but also a fine exchange coin that would be. Because we have to have dates that unite the hall, and this is a testimony to the fact that voting for a given decision is a testimony. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us do this and thus demonstrate that there are things and there are milestones of history that unite Ukraine, make it whole and monolithic, and will always be remembered for this remarkable and uninterrupted spiritual event in the life of the Ukrainian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u187	Paul Sulkowski, then Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u188	Thank you, Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of Regions, Equality. You know, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, these patriots, nationalists, Democrats, who have been around for five years, have not hit their finger on this inhabited site and museum, and many other social issues need to be resolved in that populated area. And so I'm convinced that today, really, me and Easy spoke, there's not going to be an MP who doesn't support this position. And I'm more convinced that President Viktor Yanukovic and the government of Mikli Azarov will do their utmost to carry out this date at the right level. Because guests come from other parts of the world each year, and especially on this date, there will indeed be many guests. And lastly, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to make your proposal there, all the points you have read, one point I ask you to correct. You say you count.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u189	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u190	take into account government funding in the 2011 budget. And that's why there's going to be social issues, which is going to be a little bit of time in 2011. So to anticipate funding, I'm making a proposal, in the second half of 2010 and the 2011 budget, and then there's really going to be full-time arrangements for this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u191	Please, Peter Cibenko, then Mikhailo Chechetov, then Yuri Prokopchuk, and we will determine the final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u192	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I will not engage in self-advertisement, as my predecessors did. I propose to take a decision as a whole in the form in which it is accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u193	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u194	You really know about the significant events, you can unite the nation and consolidate society, unite the Power, but not around the conceivables. Last year, the last year, power was trying to unite, consolidate around the intended date of genocide, the deliberate genocide. Divided society, isolation in the international arena, and others. And Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, President, as a true statesman and a new governor, appointed President Yanukovic, as a public figure. It is indeed suggested that the nation should be united, that society should be united, that the State should be around the date of the 450th anniversary of the Pésopnic Gospel. Yeah, it's really a state date. These are the days we need to unite, not those that corrupt society. And so on. As President, Janukovic will unite the country there, around the dates that are supported by all society, all people living in different regions, in different areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u195	Thank you. Yuri Prokopchuk, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I want to say that this position is absolutely accepted, where the word “recommend” is completely removed and it is made mandatory. In doing so, the principal performer should be, indeed, a government that is spoken of there. I want to remind my colleague, Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski, that he is in the first decision, which was presented by a group of deputies, where you, Mikola Haritanovic Shershun, and Sergey Koshin, and Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevitch and others, then the Party of Regions only voted for this decree, unfortunately. So I remind you that it's not the first time it's been considered. And that's exactly what makes it impossible to prepare all of these things today. So I fully accept the position of colleague Sulkovsky today, who says that it is necessary to anticipate this in the second half of 2010. So, honourable colleagues, let's act and hope that the extreme president who gave up on these historical, bibliographic, well, in general, is saying, the memories of our history of Ukraine are not the only ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's keep that construct and there's a number of suggestions. We could have gone that way. All the recommendations that have just been made, yes, in an appropriate letter to the government and to make sure that they are taken into account in the arrangements that will be prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If such an offer is not accepted, I will put each one to the vote. So let's do it this way. Let us prepare a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and clearly define our view of what positions should be anchored in action. (Just a minute.) One way is to carve a coin, create a museum called the “Ukrainian Book” or “Ukrainian Old Printing”. Let's move on. Changes to the budget. Changes in the budget will provide the appropriate funding for these measures in 2010. That's why it's an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u198	Society, I made an offer, and I ask her to join in. This book just needs a facsimile reprint. Let's write it down, let's do a little circulation, but let's do it. And I think that it is purely a moral obligation for those who take an oath in the Perez Gospel to read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u199	I think we should start by rereading those books who will publish them. Dear colleagues, after a brief notice, published the edition of the Persopnické facsimile. The Gospels. So let's think about it this way. Now we will not vote on these amendments that have been proposed, we will vote on the text that has been read. At the same time, we will send a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not only by sending these but also other measures that will come to the Committee on Culture and Spirituality that will come to the Supreme Council, and we will remove from the fifth paragraph the mention of the Committee on Budget Affairs on what it should exercise control. We're going to have a committee of professionals on culture and spirituality. Is there no objection? So I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a ruling by removing the reference to the Committee on Budget Affairs in the fifth paragraph. [[Registration number 4391]] Please vote. [[13:38:48]] For 382 I'll take the order. The factions, please. Region Party – 166, “Timoshenko Block” – 128, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 38, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, “Afterfractional” – 3. At the same time, I ask, my fellow Members, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to generalize the proposals for action, and I ask all of you to make a statement in order that, at the same time, we will direct these proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues! I am announcing a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violations of water and forest legislation]] Registration number 4460. At the same time, there is a letter from the national MP, the author of the bill on the transfer of the matter. But given the situation that this is already a document of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is needed. So I'm going to put it to a vote with the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the transposition of the draft Act, registration number 4460, amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violations of water and forest legislation]] [[13:40:29]] For-195 The decision is not taken. I invite you to address Mr. Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich, head of the committee's committee on law enforcement. Dear colleagues! I'm suggesting, and I think it's a common position to look at the simplified procedure of this issue? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:41:03]] For 252 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u200	Yuri Prokopchuk, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Committee of Law Enforcement. Dear colleagues! Our committee discussed a draft amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, which was submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Hubski. [[on responsibility for violations of water and forest legislation]] Registration number 4460, from 12.05. In 2009 The purpose of the draft Ukrainian Law is to ensure that the provisions of the Ukrainian Water and Forest Codes are implemented in order to establish responsibility for illegal restrictions on citizens’ access to water and public and municipal property. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with two new articles establishing responsibility for illegal restrictions on the right of citizens to reside freely in the forests of state and municipal property and to have free access to water objects for cultural, recreational and water-related purposes. In support of the whole purpose of the bill, the experts and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture Policy, Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the National Academy of the Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine, the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenk and many other scientific and scientific institutions. The result of the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. During the discussion by the Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee unanimously expressed their support for the bill. As a result of the discussion, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. In particular, I'll note that in the explanatory note before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u201	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u202	Reference is made to article 110 of the Water Code of Ukraine and article 105 of the Forest Code providing for administrative responsibility for violations of relevant water and forest legislation. But these articles do not contain provisions that provide for the responsibility for illegal restrictions on the right of citizens to reside freely in the forests of state and municipal property and to have free access to water for cultural and other purposes. So I would like to now vote on this bill in the first reading so that we can re-check for second reading whether it is consistent with the practice of law enforcement. In general, if he speaks, and what is being done today, even who once studied Roman law, yes or no, there were so - called,serviture law other rights when even the great patriots of Rome and were obliged to pass through their lands to water objects of all who wanted, that is, the citizens of the Romans and even slaves. So what is being done today on the banks of Crimea, on other lakes, where the owners have simply blocked access to water resources, is also causing dissatisfaction for our citizens and in general violating their constitutional rights. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. He is, indeed, objective, and, in view of the amendments and suggestions that will come, he can then be accepted as a whole. Now I ask you to support the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u203	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss, please sign in. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs. Oleg Lazko. And Yuri Karmazin is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u204	Oleg Lazko. This bill is extremely important and relevant. And it's very important that we accept it. Because this bill applies to those people. Well, we just had May Day. Thousands of people, our Ukrainian citizens, as opposed to the rulers who have their hands on the shores of Dniper. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is about the heads of the state who rest in the houses, in the woods, on the shores of Dniper. Thousands of people in Ukraine have been deprived of such opportunities to go out on a wild trip, to go out for a nap, or to take a bath in water. 'Cause wherever you go, there's a sleazebag all over the place. I realize that those who live on houses for the rest of their lives do not vote in favour of this law, for this law may also violate their rights there. After all, with their masters, the mortals will walk about, and they will hunt for the water of the cattle, or they will want to gather mushrooms in the forest. So, by the way, notice who is not voting today in the Supreme Council for this law. That's a very eloquent fact. That's why we have to vote for him, and we vote for him. To ensure the access of ordinary Ukrainian citizens to national acquisitions. The Constitution states that it is a national acquisition, and no one can forbid people to go through the woods, to pick up mushrooms, to rip flowers, or to catch fish. Therefore, those who violate these rights need to be held accountable. And this law must be voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u205	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u206	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Honourable National Deputies are, of course, article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which determines that land and its navel, atmospheric air, water, and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, the natural resources of its continental shelf, the sea economic zone, are subjects of the property rights of the Ukrainian people. [[exclusive]] This suggests that the Ukrainian people should use it somehow. Well, how to use it, we've seen it through the "Majigree". And even, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we were deprived of the public, of the report of the constitutionally created body, the commission of inquiry. I would like us to start to respect the Constitution not only by amending the Code of Administrative Offences. By the way, here are the comments that are serious to the second article: 60 prime. It needs to be seriously examined, what is being done. But the changes that are said to indicate that the illegal restrictions on citizens' right to reside freely in the forests of state, municipal property, I am writing more than one appeal, not one request for the forests of Kiev. We're just losing them now. I'd like to draw your attention, I'd like to draw your attention to the Uniatures, the vice-premiers of the numbers that now exist: the forest right now, where there's so much defence, where there's still leftovers of the military that aren't properly buried, where our party activists are still working, they find people, they find remnants and weapons, and everything, they're now going straight to the woods. And because other legislative acts are ineffective, we have given the right of the prosecution to have a general review of the changes to the relevant ones. There is no general oversight. The district attorney's office doesn't work. The law needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u207	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee recommends acceptance as a basis. A number of comments were made by the main scientific and expert management. But the main thing. and the first to vote is the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law. [[Registration number 4660]] Please vote. 4460, excuse me. 4460. [[13:49:43]] For-147 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal. By factions, please: Region Party Two, Timoshenko Yulia Block 105, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 23, Communist 15, Lithuanian Block One, non-fractional one. I am betting on voting for re-reading the draft Act. [[Registration number 4460]] Please vote. [[13:50:21]] For-137 The decision is not taken. There's no motive under the abbreviated procedure. Dear colleagues. “For” – 137, the decision is not taken; the bill is rejected. I have a proposition: let us now, dear fellows, continue our morning session for 15 minutes. We still have a number of bills pending, as well as the inclusion of bills in the agenda so that the committees can start a fruitful work on them. [[B in m in s a l in]] For 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman has the right to continue the session for 15 minutes. I'm going to continue it for 15 minutes. One minute to 14, I'm entitled. Dear colleagues, Bill 4617 on the introduction of additions to article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[on credit and housing improvements for many children]] There is also a letter from the author of the bill to postpone the consideration of this document. I'm voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 4617]] Please identify yourself. [[13:51:52]] For-0 Now, honourable colleagues, let's go to the bill, and consider it in a simplified manner. The rapporteur is deputy head of the Committee on Health Care, Korz Viktor Petrovich. I'm putting the vote to a reduced vote. Please vote. Dear colleague! All social laws, please just make sure people sit in the hall. That's a shame. [[13:52:21]] For 199 199, please. Let us keep our tolerance. Decision taken. Victor Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u208	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care at its meeting considered the bill submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Hubski. The bill complements article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which provides for State assistance to children and families with children. The purpose of the bill is to provide additional social guarantees to large - scale families, particularly with regard to extended loans to improve the living conditions of many families, as provided for by valid legislation for young families. Article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act proposes a supplement to which the benefits and guarantees provided for in article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Social Development and Development for young people in Ukraine are distributed to many children. The main scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council's apparatus has made quite a number of observations and the proposal to reject them. People’s deputies, members of our committee, also made some comments. Attention was drawn to the fact that in resolving the issue of mortgage credit for the improvement of living conditions for many families in the way proposed by the author of the legislative initiative, which is limited to article 10 of the Youth Welfare Act, would not be sufficient for the full state support of families. In particular, this bill foresees helping young families with age restrictions, that is, up to 35 years of age. And you and I are well aware that many families are formed after we reach that age. And in this way, the proposed social guarantee will not be distributed to a large number of Ukrainian families. So it is, in our view, primarily legislative to regulate the granting of loans and their repayments to many families and to take into account differences in the treatment of these laws. In summary, we would like to say that from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u209	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u210	On the basis and work further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u211	Thank you. Please sign up to discuss the bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Evening, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like to say that this bill is very important for the social population of our country, especially for many children. But I pressed the "yes" button because I and our faction believe that this bill still needs to be finalized. Indeed, many families are born after 35 years. It is therefore necessary to finalize this law in its entirety, all the points of study and re-examined in the conference room. Our faction will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u213	Ivan Hare, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u214	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! This law can be spoken of ambiguously because, on the one hand, it seems that opportunities for many families are expanding. Young people, on the other hand, we have young people who prepare themselves for this function, for this duty to society, and there is no question. So it's not very simple for young people in general. What's it say? The benefits and guarantees provided for in article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Social Development and Development for young people are being extended to many families. To what function?Oh, my God! Maternal function, reverend, is one of the main functions for you to know, for human beings. So let us take a closer look at the matter in order to shape our attitude. On the one hand, it is as if it were good, and on the other hand, we are narrowing down opportunities for young families.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u215	Vladimir Bondarenko passes on the right to speak to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u216	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our faction will vote in favour of this law. In Ukraine, nearly 100,000 multi - child families are in need of government assistance. And I think that there are a lot of national deputies in this room who have helped with their own resources so that these many families have 8 and 10, and 12 children, so that these families can have a place to live. And I think that for many of you, this problem is known, and that's why we don't need it, as national MPs in private, we're going to help out there, we're going to help someone, we're not going to help thousands. At the national level, it is necessary to settle this issue so that many families can benefit from State support, have the opportunity to receive a mortgage to buy a house, or take a loan to build a house. Not like today, 10 children in one room are in three - year - old beds, and I have had to see them in many parts of the Chernigian region. So our faction will vote in favour of this bill. And I would like to say separately, because the last bill was being considered for a reduced procedure, and so the chairman didn't give me the opportunity to speak out of motive, and I would like to remind you that the previous bill envisaged, they proposed fines for not allowing people to go to the river, to the forest, and so on. A party of regions did not vote in favour of this bill. Apparently, it's this party that's been putting up these fences, the woods are surrounded by fences, fences on the water, private beaches, and millions of Ukrainian citizens across from the Water Code, in spite of the Forest Code, have been deprived of opportunities either in May, or on any other holiday or weekends to go to the river, to the lake, to spend their leisure in the woods. And those who illegally deprive citizens of this opportunity today have no responsibility. And for the bill that sets out this responsibility, the party of power does not vote. This is the protection of Ukrainian citizens, this is their improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u217	Thank you. Peter Cibenko. One minute. Then Bondick, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u218	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Company faction will vote in favour of this document because it is a form of support for many families. And actually, the change in volume itself is even smaller than the size of the bill itself. So we're definitely going to support this document because it's socially oriented. And as for the previous bill, my dear colleagues, I would like to say that obviously part of, well, first of all, the faction of the Ukrainian Company voted for it, and secondly, some of the colleagues did not vote, probably because they did not believe in the author's intentions. You know, there's a famous saying: "the thief himself screams louder than anyone else." And a person who is one of the largest landowners may doubt the sincerity of his concern about the accessibility of citizens to water and forest resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u219	Valery Bondick, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u220	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, great colleagues and, even, the speaker. Well, you didn't make the bill that was reported to our colleague Korgem. The protection of motherhood and childhood has no bearing on forest farming. Therefore, according to the Rules, I do not have the right to make a comment to you, but I ask you to make it a chairman. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, enough politics. The bill is reported and the speaker gives a speech on the previous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u221	Names. Dear colleagues, well, please calm down. The last name wasn't called, it would have been called the last name, it would have been a replica. Dear colleagues! The bill has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. At the same time, I am voting on the first proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act on Supplements to Article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[on extended credit to improve the living conditions of many families]] Please vote. [[14:02:07]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region 4 Party, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 109, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 21, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 1, non-fractional – 0. On re-reading, I'm putting the motion for a re-voting. Registration number 4617. Please vote. [[14:02:45]] For-164 The decision is not taken. There's no motive. Dear colleagues! I have a proposition for you. We need to be united, calmed down. Let us now vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bills so that the committees can work on their preparations for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then we'll take a break, and then we'll have a 15-hour parliamentary hearing. There's no motive. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Support the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill of Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on anti-fraud. [[Registration number 6045]] Author of Anatoly Gritsenko's draft law. Please identify yourself. [[14:03:57]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-12-m0.u222	There's no motive. Well, please, please. For -130. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" - 100, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 24, Communists – 4, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, "Club of Lithuania" – 1. I now put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. [[about tax pressure reduction]] [[Registration number 6163]] Please vote. [[14:04:50]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 92, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 19, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 1, Postfaction – 0. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Corporate Income Taxation. [[on tax reduction]] [[Registration number 6166]] [[14:05:34]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 91, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 20, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, "Club of Lithuania" – 0. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Higher Education Act. [[Dear colleagues, I'd like to take a very careful approach here, as well as the previous ballots.]] [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6194]] Please vote. [[14:06:19]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 102, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 25, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 20, non-fractional – 1. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Small and Medium Enterprises Promotion Act. Registration number 6207. Please identify yourself. [[14:06:56]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. I'm sorry I didn't name the author's last name. Oleg Lazko. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 96, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 23, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 0. The bill was rejected. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent and combat corruption. Author – Roman Zvarić. Registration number 6279. [[14:07:50]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions? Please. I'm asking you, well, respectable colleagues! You vote first and the decision will be made. Why don't you vote? Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 92, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 23, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 1, non-fractional – 0. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. These are all to Adam Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] An interval of 15 hours is announced. Parliamentary hearings will begin at 3 p.m. to discuss the electoral system for the local elections. And from 15 hours, there will also be a committee meeting.
