ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[15:59:36]] Cards were registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. Evening meeting. Dear colleagues, there is someone to add. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we organize our work in this way. Now we're going to look at the bill, then we're going to look at the issue of the release and the granting of consent to serve as an antimonopoly committee, and then we're going to look at Bill 7450, and then we're going to follow the text. [[Registration number 7115]] Is there no objection? Therefore, I am announcing a draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws on natural gas and electricity calculations. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Martinenko. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on December 1st this year considered a comparative table for the second reading of a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on natural gas and electricity bills introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7115]] The text adopted in the first reading received 12 suggestions from four national deputies, from whom it was rejected. I'd like to move on to a comparison table. With regard to the amendments made, particularly by me, I will note that these amendments form a legislative basis for the mechanism for the application of distribution accounts similar to those already in force for almost 10 years in electricity. This mechanism allowed a high level of monetary discipline to be raised on the energy market. So there is no need to create a new one, but we can apply what we have already done correctly. The proposals are in line with the NCRE, which currently has the functions of the National Commission for the Regulation of the Local Services Market in Ukraine. Now we can move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u3	People's deputies! After the repairs, let's go. 4amendment of the People's Deputy, Sphenov Dmitra. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Next. Correction of Voropeyeva, 6th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please, Yuri Voropeyev. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u4	Would you like to draw your attention to the following: What does the law propose? He said that all revenues coming from heat or water to utilities should only be paid to special accounts. And they will come from the special accounts, primarily to pay off the debt for electricity and gas. It does not determine how much they are going to go? Whether wages will be paid, whether such costs will be paid for enterprises, utilities, for the creation of this thermal energy or for the creation of water for the population. So here's my 6th draft, which provides for the possibility of using these funds not only for electricity and gas costs, but also for other costs that accompany the establishment of this facility of consumption for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u5	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u6	Thank you. Amendment number 6 in the first part is precise for other calculations. But the committee prefers the direction of spending to be laid down in the legal acts emanating from this law. The amendment is therefore proposed to be rejected. Also, in the second part of the amendment, the authors propose to introduce into the law the term “economically sound expenditure”, which does not correspond in full to the same meaning as the term “costs included in tariffs”, as defined in the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. This law is fundamental to natural monopolies and its terms must apply to all natural monopolies, so this amendment is rejected. We had a discussion on the subject in the committee, and the decision taken was unanimous to reject the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote on Amendment 6. Please vote. [[16:05:30.]] For the 220. Correction not supported. Yeah, let's move on. Amendment seven. Voropeyes. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u8	I'm paying attention, well, it's related to the previous six amendments. If you don't take the 6th, the 7th won't work either. I'm just asking you to pay attention to the following. Electricity and gas charges for these utilities cannot be subjectively set. At that time, the State, in the presence of the Cabinet of Ministers, must assume responsibility for the provision of water and heat to the population. No problem, then everything will be fine, fair and fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u10	Vladimir Mikhailovich, the correct author of the amendment, said that the 7 amendments contained the same references to economically sound tariffs, in which I argued why the committee had taken such a decision on the 6 amendments not to support it. Therefore, the proposal does not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, we can do this by simply not considering this amendment, since it has to do with the 6th amendment. Or so do: put to the vote a return to consideration 6 of the amendment. If there's support, then we'll have a logical view of the 7th amendment. Is there no objection to such an approach? I'm voting on the proposal to return 6 amendments. [[16:07:37]] For 237 We're back to six. And now I'm voting on the proposal to take 6 amendments into account. Please vote. [[16:08:00]] For 232 Correction accepted. Now logically, honourable colleagues, put to the vote the 7th amendment. I'm voting on Amendment 7. Please vote. [[16:08:26]] For 229 Correction accepted. Next amendment, Voropeyev, 9th, please, microphone. Are you going to insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u12	These amendments are interrelated. They determine the cost-effectiveness of these enterprises and the ability to set tariffs at a normal price.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u13	Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u14	The problem 9 of the amendment is this: it does not contain the mechanism for determining the fuel component tariff for the heat supply to be allocated to the special-account costs and for determining them correctly. Thus, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u15	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No.9, the author is Voropeyev and Korge. [[16:09:38]] For 211 Correction not supported. Yeah, next amendment 10. Spinov, are you insisting on her? 12th, Spinov. No, it's not. Mikola Volodymyrovich, can we put to the vote in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u16	Other amendments are taken into account and may be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u17	What, is there a suggestion to vote on the 9th amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u18	11th, yes, 9th, 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u19	I am voting on the proposal to return to consideration of the 9th amendment. Please vote. [[16:10:28]] For 240 We're back on track. I'm now voting on Amendment 9. The proposal to consider Amendment 9 shall be put to the vote. [[16:10:55]] For 238. Correction counted. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u20	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. All the adjustments are taken into account, we've all made them. You can put the law to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law in the second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal office has certain observations that the committee disagreed with. That is why I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft law “On amending certain laws of Ukraine on natural gas and electricity calculations”. [[Registration number 7115]] Please vote. [[16:11:50]] For 272 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u23	Mr. Kostusev Aleksija, President of Ukraine, from the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, and the appointment of Tsushka Vasil Petrovic, President of Ukraine as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. You have the documents you need. We are moving on to this issue. The procedure is governed by article 211 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Economic Policy Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u24	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 24, of the first article of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted an application for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Alexia Alexiyovich Kostujev from office of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine in connection with the election of his Odessa city head. Please support this submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u25	Okay. Dear colleagues, don't you have any questions for the reporter? None. Thank you. Sit down, Yuri Romanovich. From the committee, please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered the President’s application to release Kostuyev Alexiyovich from office as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee in connection with his election as mayor of the city of Odessa. The committee reviewed the submission and unanimously decided to support the President's appointment of Comrade Kostusev from office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, then you will be presented with a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the granting of an agreement for the release by the President of Ukraine of Kostusev Aleksija Alexiyyyovich of the post of Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:15:16]] For 301 Decision taken. Now, let's go to the second part of this question -- to grant approval for the appointment of Tsushka Vasil Petrovic, President of Ukraine as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 24, of the Constitution, the Head of State submitted an application for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Vasil Petrovic Tsushka as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please support the appropriate submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u29	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the profile committee, please, Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the committee considered the appointment of President Tsushko Vasil Petrovic as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. The committee considered the issue, heard Vasil Petrovich, made his suggestions, remarks, and considered it possible to support the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u31	Thank you. Wait, there's still time for the performances. Please say sit down, Alexander Mikolaiovich, are there any questions before the candidature? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u32	No presentations are provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u33	There is no talk and discussion on 211 articles. Please look, Baby. Questions to Tsushko? Please. Five minutes is enough? That's enough. Vasil Petrovich, please to the rostrum. Sign up for questions. Please, Hellcat. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u34	Dear Vassili Petrovich! I think you've left a good mark on all the sites you've been assigned by the country. After a professional, thoughtful person who can pay off a team. I have no doubt that in a new place you will be guided by this philosophy. What do you think you have to do in your new capacity today? What will be the philosophy of your work and of your team?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u35	Please, Vaszczuk. Huh?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u36	Thank you for asking. I think that today the Antimonopoly Committee should do what concerns every citizen. This is a question of price stabilization, consumer prices. I'll give you a quick answer, as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u37	Please, Vaszczuk Katerina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u38	We can only advise you that a serious area of work is about to take place. But I have this kind of question. In recent years there have been such inflows and outflows in the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. You know very well how a good economist, who is an important member of the Antimonopoly Committee in the fight against monopolies in different markets. And it hurts especially every time in the country. When conspiracies and processors go in one direction or another, or grain traders. As you can see, the role of the Antimonopoly Committee is to show for once in history that the State protects the manufacturer, not all those who follow him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u39	Katerina Timofeevna, thank you for your kind words. I. This is a new case for me, but I will make sure that the Antimonopoly Committee exercises all the powers provided for by law. And on the issues you raised, I'll always be as open as I've always been. I think that together with you and the people's deputies, we can make this body, the constitutional body, carry out the tasks that you have just raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u40	Mankovsky, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u42	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u43	Vasil Petrovich, I can only confirm the words of my colleagues that you are truly a decent and courageous man. And we have in this room, of course, representatives of the legendary black-toothed cohort, you just ignore them. You're Ukraine's national MP. You're not the only one calling. You know very well who's worth it. I have a specific question for you. Today, more than ever, the problem of monopolistic conspiracies is the antimonopoly of manufacturers of goods and products to which such a conspiracy can be extended. You also understand very well as the Minister of Economics, as the former governor, that without this disaster, we will never make our economy competitive. If there's no competition, if there's no need to fight, then the economy will. Do you have any work done by your governor, the minister of the economy, to work for legislative initiatives to strengthen antitrust?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u44	Thank you. I've already spoken to the Antimonopoly Committee employees. I have my ideas. But again, I'm very seriously counting on the MP Corps, because every month you have the week you go to the district, and you see it and you talk to business leaders and our citizens who are consumers of all these goods and services. And I think we're gonna have to upgrade something together. Now to say that I'm ready to put such a document on the table, no, for me, this is a new matter, we'll find out, I think, and we'll make a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u45	Sergey Pavlenko, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u46	Sergey Pavlenko, faction of the People’s Party, Kiev Please pass the word to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u47	Oleg Zarubinski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vassil Petrovich. You know, the Antimonopoly Committee or in different countries is called, but the body that does antimonopoly activity and does not allow monopolies is the second Ministry of Finance in power. For example, Yetz's capitals were divided because the U.S. Antimonopoly Committee so wanted, and there was nothing he could do, this stronger man, and he divided his capitals. Clearly, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine today needs to modernize it, it has to occupy that niche that any monopoly would fear. What do you want to do, what do you do to modernize it? Because he's not just another Minfin today, he's not the tenth Minfin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u49	I agree with you that in the market economy, the Antimonopoly Committee is an important authority. And again, I'm not going to talk about big plans and so on. I repeat, for me, this is a new case, and I'm going to come in, and I think, personally to you as a scientist and an expert in this legislation, I'm not going to forget you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u50	Vassili Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u51	I mean, I'm going to ask Zarubinski for help as a wonderful specialist in this field.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u52	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on granting approval for the appointment by the President of Ukraine of Tsushka Vasil Petrovic as head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7434]] Please vote. [[16:24:35]] For 272 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome Vassil Petrovich, on your behalf, to the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given consent to his appointment as President of Ukraine as head of the Antimonopoly Committee, and to thank Alexia Kostusev, our colleague who has so far worked fruitfully in this office. Well, we won't applaud, will we? [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other legislative acts is being announced. [[Registration number 7450]] The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Anatoly Merkowski, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valery Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other legislative acts, which provides for the harmonization of the provisions of the new Budget and Tax Codes, as well as amendments to some other legislative acts aimed at resolving specific issues of the budgetary process. This bill is prepared for the implementation of paragraph 4 of the Tax Code. Changes to the Budget Code include: a change in the names of individual taxes and congregations, including taxes on the income of natural persons, as well as the logical tax, excise taxes; a collection for the first registration of transport taxes; a collection for the special use of water; a collection for the introduction of certain types of entrepreneurial activities; a removal of separate payments in connection with their cancellation, namely: a collection for geological exploration and a collection for gastronomic measures; a calculation of part of the environmental tax, except a tax for the formation and temporary storage of jet waste with the aim of financing targeted projects for the green modernization of enterprises. In particular, some will be included in the special fund of the Minerals or Minecology, while others will be aimed at financing targeted projects of environmental modernization. As well as complementing the state budget's protected expenditure by spending on jobs and actions of the State's programme of decommissioning from the Chernobyl AES operation and transforming the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system and work to reinforce the barrier functions of the alienation zone. At the same time, the provisions of the bill provide for changes to the Code of the Nadra, the Oil and Gas Act, the State Geological Service of Ukraine, which will provide adequate revenue from the assembly and issuance of such special permits at the 2010 level and which are already included in the draft Law on the State Budget for 2011. [[on the implementation of a transparent procedure for the sale of auctioned-out special-licensors and the setting of maximum cost]] There are also changes to the laws “For Economic Societies”, “On Shareholders’ Associations and Management of Public Property Objects” in the part of the establishment of compulsory dividend payments to the State and. As a shareholder and as part of the net revenue of state-owned unit companies, which will also provide adequate income to the budget, particularly in 2011, this is about 2.1 billion dollars. Amendments to the Law, the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, are also being made on competitive grounds for transfer to the arena of state and municipal property, which will ensure that in 2011 the government will receive about 700 million dollars from the rent. Also before the Radioactive Waste Management Act, the funding of radioactive waste management resulting from the Chernobyl disaster was financed by the State Fund. Amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges are also envisaged in part of the definition of the state administration, the chief budget manager, and the settlement of issues in 2011 on the basis of a judicial award. In addition, some other legislative acts are being amended to allow us to balance the 2011 budget figures and what standards we have previously taken into account in the State Budget Act itself. Taking these provisions into account in the basic laws will allow us to bring the State Budget Act into line with the norms that we have every year, and I pay attention to the Constitutional Court in considering the conformity of such norms with other laws and the Constitution. The bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, supported by the Government, and proposes that it be considered by the Supreme Council. And if there is such a good will, accept it in general as a law. This will allow us to unify the legislative base and prepare for the second reading at the next Thursday of the State Budget Act, which takes account of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u54	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please sign up for the question. Please, 10 minutes. Please, Pritica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear reporter! I see in your amendments to the Ukrainian Courtship and Status of Judges Act you predict that for 2011 you stop the action of articles 129 and 130 on judicial remuneration and relief. You know, every day in the Supreme Council, there's a problem of judges and judges. You know what the salary is, especially in the judges of the first instance, especially those who came first, up to five years of internship, so to speak, they have 2,000, 2,000 and a half. And this whole paycheck is sticking out of all of these things that are predicted: reward and so on. It doesn't make sense. We accept the budget, I don't see you anywhere else in law enforcement. And once again, you insult the judges, and then you regret that they make the right or wrong decision. That's why I'm asking you, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u56	Thank you for asking. Just today, we were discussing the draft State Budget Act 2011 and the report was the Minister of Finance, in which he made such a statement that we agree with the Committee on Budgets within the framework of the 2011 general expenditure balance to return to specific proposals that relate to increasing expenditure on certain areas, sectors or authorities. So in this context, I think we're going to look at the 2011 budget figures for overall expenditure on the judicial system, including their payments. rewards for their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u57	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! I see that your so-called draft of this law, amending the Budget Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine, is a continuation of that policy that the government is currently conducting, a continuation of the attack on all citizens' conquests, an attack on, I would say, the material part. And in particular, I'd like to ask you. Right now you're not responding, I understand, to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that prohibited you from reducing constitutional guarantees to the same judges, to other categories of citizens, to children of war and so on. And now you're ignoring that decision by the Constitutional Court. Why is the government doing this now?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u59	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that the submission of the bill was related to some of the issues raised by the Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutionality of the State Budget Act 2010 which dealt with issues, such as the coming to the State Budget or the cessation of the rules of those or other legislative acts. And it was to implement this decision that we prepared a separate bill that we settled in 2010 on the conformity of individual laws. And we're also proposing for 2011 and on a permanent basis that we establish certain standards. In addition, the bill provides for the introduction of the Tax Code with valid rules. with the Budget Code, which will take effect on January 1, as tax names have changed. And this bill will also ensure that revenue is guaranteed, for example, taxes on oil and gas rents.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u60	Please, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u61	I would like to ask about changes to the Shareholder Society Act. This is page 34 of the tables. I've been giving it to you orally. I don't understand the logic of the proposal you've written here, as far as dividends go only the profit of this year and there's no sharing of profits, the unallocated profit of previous years. What the benefits of the Cabinet of Ministers are, I cannot understand. If he receives his share of dividends proportionally, of course, the number of shares owned by the State, at the expense of previous years, he is likely to win, not lose. If shareholders receive their share of dividends in previous years, if they do not share this profit, they will also benefit from it because the advance payments will go on dividends. Why does the Cabinet of Ministers want to delete that? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u62	It is meant that income in past periods should be distributed according to the mechanisms and standards that have worked for past periods. I mean, so that we can't apply the law backwards, that's the idea of government. If you think there's a case there, we're ready to go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u63	Hell-bent Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u64	Anatoly Ivanovich! I have no big questions about this bill, almost you said in your report that the law is designed to balance and harmonise legislation with a view to increasing budgetary revenue. But because of a number of circumstances, I and my colleagues have not been able to speak today under the Basic Law - budget, the 2011 draft budget - so using the moment and opportunity, you, as a person always at the centre of all budgetary processes, should understand that the process needs to be harmonized with basic, socially acute things. First. The school bus, please note, we're not going to agree with the 50 million. Second. School textbooks. And the third is, of course, the many-suffering firewall bridges. Please, this is black humor, 200 million, the minimum that our countrymen can accept is 500 million. Please remember this figure and come next time with this number on the bridge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u65	Thank you, Alexander Nikolaevich, I know you always make very constructive suggestions. We will therefore consider them on the Committee on Budgets. And I think we're going to find a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u66	Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u67	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! Today, when we look at our nation's budget, we have repeatedly talked about that the rate of rising expenditure on the force structure is significantly higher than the rise in social expenditure. In addition to this draft budget, the possibility of funding the police from local budgets is foreseen. This may result in local police officers demanding their wages by blackmailing local officials with criminal matters, while officials, in order to remain calm, will turn local budgets for the benefit of law enforcement officials, reducing the share of local, educational, and medical institutions. It is known that in the preceding version of the Code of Budgets, it was prohibited to simultaneously finance the police from the local and state budgets. Do you feel that it is necessary to amend the Codex Budgets in order to restore this standard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u68	Thank you. I think that your proposal for an article of the draft State Budget Act, which relates to the possibility of providing financial support to the local budgets of the militia units, which actually performs certain functions for local self-government, I think this proposal will be considered. But I would like to tell you that the Budget Code, which was adopted on July 8, has a rule that allows, if local governments have over-planned income or surpluses that have been inactive since the previous periods of this budget period, it is allowed to channel such funds to regional programs financed from the state budget. So I think we're in the process of redesigning the budget for second reading, this rule and this colossal arrangement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u69	Grabrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u70	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, in fact, we've already spoken in our budget review about what you're proposing, the changes to the Budget Code, in fact removing 50 percent of the income tax from Kiev citizens for the central budget, is not fair and is ruining local self-government. You can delete some amount in the elimination budget over a period of time, some years, some amount, but you're here to stabilize the situation for years because you're writing it in the Budget Code. Next. When, in fact, land between municipal and state property had previously remained 10 percent for the development fund of local self - government authorities. Today, 100 percent of the budget goes to the central budget, and you leave nothing in the local budget. And the third question. Anatoly Ivanovich, isn't it time for us to stop flapping holes? We've stopped by the judges, we'll stop by someone else tomorrow. It is time to review social policies at all and monetaryize the benefits so that only those who need them will receive the benefits, rather than slap holes and roar again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u71	Thank you for asking. The main task, one of the main tasks of the President, is to optimize debt policy. You know how much it's got on it, the pressure on the transition payments. And the government has to take into account the exact need to reduce the debt burden on the budget. And that's what all the other positions come out of. What about social indicators or social support mechanisms? So the budget declaration and the Kabminu programming documents have such standards, so we're asking ourselves to move on to a more effective social support system that would include the mechanisms for the monetaryization of benefits. By the way, we have this experiment that we're doing in some areas, we're already doing these experiments today, we have a government decision on this. In addition to providing benefits, it means taking into account all factors that affect the property status of the recipient. But this is the perspective, this is the development. I think you and I are going to work on them. What about the issue of the distribution of public taxes and congregations? A tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u72	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u73	I would like to point out that the tax on the income of individuals refers to public taxes. And the state right in accordance with the Constitution is the norm, which is what we have to do in shaping the budget as a function of distribution of resources between regions, between population categories and so on. So to achieve the budget balance and to optimize the movement, the flow of funds, I think that's the best offer we've offered. I think I'm going to prove to you in an individual conversation that this is better than what it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u74	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, sit down. For the benefit of the judges, there were a lot of questions here, you just remember when they came in, and how they came in, these benefits that the government owed them to cover things up. Please, Baranov from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u75	Honourable deputies and invited! Draft Act No. 7450, which has just been submitted to you, should certainly be considered together with the draft State Budget Act for the following year, since its main task is to reconcile fiscal and other legislation to ensure adequate resources for state and local budgets and to effectively implement expenditure. The legal basis for such a draft law was the adoption of the Tax Code, as well as the adoption by the Constitutional Court of individual decisions concerning the subject matter and content of the State Budget Act. The Budget Committee considered the proposed draft law following the submission of the State Budget Project Committee for the following year and noted that the proposed changes were directly related to the formation of State and Local Budgets for 2011. It should therefore be processed simultaneously with the draft budget in order to ensure the legality, consistency and correctness of budget planning. The basic provisions of the bill relate to the normalization of terminology and to taxes and to congregations, the refinement of their censuses and compositions, the identification of protected expenses for measures to convert a shelter into an environmentally sound system, and so forth. The changes to other legislation have regulated a number of issues that have led to the strengthening of the public budget's resource base, the avoidance of its loss of income, the simplification of budgetary procedures for individual funds managers. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the first reading should be based on the adoption of the bill. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget and some other legislative acts of Ukraine, No. 7450, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Instruct the Committee on Budget Questions to finalize a draft bill that takes into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators ’ right to take the initiative into account and to introduce it into short periods for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u76	Thank you, Valery Alexiovich. Any questions? Please sign up, five minutes. Please, Kulikov Kirilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u77	Thank you very much, Valery Alexiyovich. I have a few questions. First of all, it's an important position that taxes on natural persons should shape local budgets. That's the logic of this tax, that's understandable. The second issue, which is, is the law that changes other laws. We have been told several times by the Constitutional Court. It's impossible to do that. So we're adopting changes to the Budget Code, other laws, we're adopting changes to them in our own way. Here we take everything in a bag, we can't do that. And the third question. It states that the experts issue, according to the Law of Ukraine, in addition to the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. When the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers became higher than the law of Ukraine. That should change, we're members of the budget committee. Three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u78	Well, with respect to the income tax, it was different in different years between different budgets. But as the reporter of this law said today, he refers to public taxes and the state has the right to regulate it. As far as the comments you've made are concerned, we're going to have time together with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance to find an understanding to fix as many of the problems as you've pointed out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u79	Nigga Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u80	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Don't you think that's how many problems we've had with this budget, and with these changes to the Budget Code, because we're not looking at it in time? We had to do it on an old tax base, probably do it, then we wouldn't have any problems. Including, I still want to go back and get everyone to hear my position on the elimination of half of the city budget in a very strange way, by adding to the taxes paid in Kiev to the state budget, half of them. This has never been the case in Ukraine. I hope that never happens. Why is this done, why is it done for the city of Kiev? Why is today’s authority so common in the city of Kiev? It's already, well, ridiculously, to remove 7 million, then another one-and-a-half billion, then another one-and-a-half million, and leave less than that in the big problems that are in Kiev. I think the position of the committee should not be allowed. And I'd like you to confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u81	Well, you're right that this is a novelty that you called, and today there's a debate and a consensus is being sought, because today both the city's or the head of the city's administration was in the head of the Supreme Council and there was a conversation with the minister of finance. And I know that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is involved today. So among all those who have a share and a certain attitude, there is today a discussion to find some logical solution to this problem, and it is, this problem and you have rightly identified it. With regard to the budget adoption procedure, but unfortunately, the Ukrainian tradition is that almost all budgets are not accepted by procedure, and you and I, as members of the committee, are not able to listen to budget managers today, and we are forced to do so, and we have no other way out. I am sure that the following year of September 15, we will have a fruitful implementation of the Ukrainian Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u82	Yes, please, Paul Sulkowski has waited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u83	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, when you listen, people today are mostly in this room, our colleagues, from the past power, and the power that they haven't done. She had caused so much trouble in Ukraine that it would take years to correct the situation she had left behind. And that's why today any empty words, so to take the time, to invent different things, and just to deceive, and to lie to all of Ukraine. We just have to finish, your honors, finish this lie and this lie. Just whatever it is bitter, sweet, but you have to say real things. And so I support, and I propose to support the committee head, and the committee's decision needs to be supported. We have to end up here saying empty words, and just make that decision. This is in favor of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u84	That was the wish. Carmazine, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u85	Yuri Carmazin. I have two questions. First question. How do we, if we want to bring the rules of the Budget Code into line with the provisions of the Tax Code, leave references to standards that are no longer valid. And the Science and Experimental Authority has given you over 20 laws. You're probably seeing this. The government wrote it down. And we've been paying attention to this over and over and over again. That's the first question. And the second question. How do we feel about the fact that these changes are now about selling land rights not only for non-agricultural purposes, but about selling rights to any land, including agriculture, which is not for sale today. How can it be that this is, in fact, perhaps specifically done to make the land simple?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u86	If this is a question, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you know that I am not the author of this budget, but as of today we are starting with all the deputies and factions to work on agreeing on this and the Budget Act. And I ask you to make your written comments so that we can consider them and, if possible, consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u87	Yes, thank you. The questions came to an end. Please sit down, Valery Alexiyovich. Is there a desire to discuss whether we will make decisions? Yeah, except for Easy, who else wants to talk? Please sign up for factions. From factions first. The factions have signed up. Now I ask the MPs. Yes, please, that's when the faction got us 2, 6, 15. So 25 minutes is taken for discussion. Please, Vladimir Karpuk. I'm asking for a microphone from the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u88	Dear National Deputies! I want to draw attention to another interesting novel introduced in part 14 of the amendments to the Budget Code and some legislative acts. This is about changes to the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in connection with temporary employment and funeral expenses. It is foreseen by this novelty that if the budget of the fund is not accepted by 1 September of the year leading up to the adoption of the new budget, such a budget is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. We know that the budget of the temporary disability fund has a pretty big budget, it's a couple of billion dollars. And of course, by September 1st, it doesn't get to approve the budget because it's being adopted on a tripartite basis by insured persons, government officials and employers. And in the second and third quarters, they only accept those principles of paying contributions to the state fund. And these are completely different principles, completely different methods of work. And I think so. And this is a proposal, I'd like you to consider this a suggestion for change to exclude this standard from the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u89	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. From where? A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u90	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yuli's Block Timoshenko. Dear friends! In considering this bill after the first reading of Ukraine’s budget, a question arises, and on what basis was the budget approved? Well, the head of the budget committee here said that we've always had some kind of misperforming practice in the adoption of the budget. I mean, we've never had that kind of practice. When one law is approved and based on it, what is it built on? On the basis of a law that does not yet exist, which is then approved? So I wonder when he'll be signed? And won't it be signed later than the whole bill on Ukraine's budget will be passed. Earlier, when the Budget Code was being passed, well, when it was being dealt with quickly very quickly, in a few minutes in this room, I was paying attention to the full leveling of the role of the Supreme Council and of the Budget Committee in particular. We were put out of work on this bill. Well, now, in the second reading, the law will be considered in the Cabinet of Ministers and any amendments from the deputies will actually be very difficult to read before that. This is already the property of the Cabinet of Ministers. And on the Committee on Budgets today -- whether we've considered or not -- it's all going straight to the Hall without taking into account the thoughts of the MPs again. So this is how the leaders of Parliament can act, and they just waved at it with their hands. They just fell under the structures that decide today both for the legislative authority and for the executive power, and above all for themselves. So when we saw the budget we gave us, we were very surprised, especially in my direction of work, I noticed a sharp decline in local government funding. The distribution of subsidies is unknown on what basis. Why does the Brovarsky region of Kyiv get tens of millions there? There's obviously someone who has a cabin or they're going to build, or whole latifunds. Of course, today’s approval of this or other law no longer plays a role. All decisions have long been made outside this room. It demeans me as a deputy. And I think it's not just me, it's everyone else. Here we find out the problems of the former authorities. After all, she was decent, she brought papers to the hall, they were considered, they came back then without justification, the opposition at the time. And it's all the same, but the authorities were acting by law, and this one is acting outside the law. So, let's, let's just say whatever you want, we're not taking part in this, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u91	So I realized that they were illegal, and these were outlaws, or what? Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Actually, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to welcome you. I want to welcome Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin and most of them. In fact, you've had a 20-minute big victory back. In the Supreme Administrative Court, where the so-called Keeler Chamber refused to recognize the unlawful actions of the Supreme Council on the adoption of changes, anti-constitutional and illegal changes, before the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council. There's something about this kind of thing that we're looking at right now. It's about the same thing: we're looking at the budget first, and then we're looking at the changes to the budget code. In addition, we love local self-government, which we then take from the authority of local budgets, local authorities, and corporate income taxes. Now, we're seriously thinking about the development of cities and the basic villages of the basic level. That's serious. I was thinking, frankly, maybe in the Party of Regions something would work out so that at least the names "regions" would be affected by the region? Nothing worked. Now in this project, you're also proposing to actually violate the legal situation under which we banned the sale of agricultural land. This is obviously for the same force again. Now you're in the pocket of the dividends, that's a change to article 30 of the Shareholder Society Act. You can't do this anymore. Profits will be made by the decisions of the general congregations. You are now stopping for 2011 the operation of article 129 and the operation of article 130 of the Law on the Status of Judges. What are you doing? You step in and reduce that judge's reward and say, "Judges, take bribes," "Why?" "Because everything the state has guaranteed you, we are now stopping for this year without motive, unlawfully, against the decisions of the Constitutional Court." You just take it, you signal all over the country for feeding, for local feeding. And we're going to have this legalized. Because of this, dear friends, there are still countless comments to this bill. It is completely unconstitutional, does not meet a dozen valid laws and must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u93	Paul Ivanovich of Zebrovsky has a different opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, in fact, people come to Parliament to write down the rules of social life. And power is strong when it starts to work with itself when the authorities start to follow the laws of Ukraine. BUT was critical of the regions yesterday, today the regions are critical of BUT, and they have failed, and these are not yet going to comply with the laws. We are amending the Budget Code, I'm sorry, but the budget was not allowed to form on a new tax basis, because we have just adopted a new Budget Code that prohibits the adoption of a budget in principle under this Tax Code. There is said to be a Supreme Council decree. Friends, yes, the Supreme Council's decree cannot eliminate Ukraine's law, but it's the Budget Code. Now the changes to the budget code are being made today. Well, they don't really like Kiev, they don't like China. There is a person appointed who, unfortunately, is a decent, good person, but not an independent one who does only what he is told from two offices: Bank and Gruszewski. But clearly it can't stand, because it's not chosen by cyanide, it's spaced somewhere in space. And today from Kiev, they're just always taking 50 percent of the income tax from citizens into the state budget. In fact, it was predicted that cities or settlements could be eliminated when there is a substantial excess of income and that the budgets of various cities and settlements could be aligned. Today, in fact, 50 percent of Kiev’s income, 75 percent of Kiev’s income, has been taken away from the budget code forever. And not in operational mode, it's not written down, it's just going to be wanted and taken away. Dear friends, let's take a look today, and although Anatoly Ivanovich said that we're going to fix it all, from the distribution there on the ground to the separation, and if we're going to fix it, I think it's going to be okay, because there's also going to be a substantial removal from the local budgets of the funds. If we are really ready to work with this, it would be very good. And once again, I emphasize that the benefits of today’s service to judges are cared for by others. What about the poorer people themselves? Are they the most socially vulnerable people? Grants and benefits should be given only to those who need them, not to some categories of people. I would like to remind you that the benefits were accepted when the state was unable to provide a decent life for all, and the more deprived categories of the population were just foreshadowed by the benefits. We went through the aids today by category: miners, teachers, regardless of theirs. Come on, come on, I think we need to work on that. If there is such a program, we are ready to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u96	for reform. But actually enough raw changes, and I think that either we need to work on them, or this bill needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u97	Vyziewsky gives the Blackwolf a word. Please. Get ready. Arjovitin. No, it's a little different.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u98	Dear friends, on behalf of the opposition, I would like to pay my respects to our government. In a difficult situation, he found himself. You see, he was preparing the Tax Code, tax reform, and he wrote down that it was necessary by July 15. If everything that's been adopted since July 15th is no longer included in the next budget, but only in a year, in this case 12th. This is where the President picks up and says, "No, that's not good, that's not good." They're preparing another one. You're finally taking everyone in. It's autumn, it's late, but there's still a little time. But the President takes and vetoes. Well, they've already vetoed it, like everything's okay, and it's starting to happen that they're still budgeting. And on the night of the budget, the president starts administrative reform. That is, the abuse of both his government and his majority in the Supreme Council, because some ministries are in the budget and others are in the reform. One function before the reform was carried out is recorded in the budget and the other comes out. So I think that's the only way to explain it is that the government once again went to a breach of existing legislation and prepared a budget on a new tax basis, even though the Budget Code required an old tax base. But I'm surprised why the government didn't make this proposal -- changes to the Budget Code, so please, let's put everything -- this is my official proposal -- all that was adopted by January 1st, into the budget next year. Let's not say we're very smart. Let's just say that they're stupid, but they're honest, that's all. It's like a cowboy, you know, picking out a girl for himself, a wife, and saying, "How many twice?" She says, "I don't know." He says, "Holy honest. Silly, though honest." So let's say we can't. And secondly, dear friends, well, what we're taking everything in the city of Kiev and most importantly, it's already been an attempt. Again, let's go back to the Tax Code. It was my amendment to remove 50 percent of the income tax from this item because the Tax Code was written down. You all voted not to delete it, you accepted it. Then the president took, vetoed, and you voted, that's why you took this stupid thing away. Now we are offered this again in the budget and now the changes to the Tax Code, to the Budget Code. Why do we have to go against the Presidential veto again? So let's do this, and we're not going to take the basic tax on local self-government in Kiev. Because no city, no village, no village of the district, no area, you take it to Kiev. Well, you can't do that. You're already out of Donbass. It's time to go to Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u99	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. And finally, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly concerned about the standard that has been introduced regarding the change of authority of the National Bank of Ukraine and the transfer of these functions to the rule of the National Bank. So if here, in the Council, we've talked a lot about what it is that MPs who represent those or other factions on the National Bank Board, the experts who work on the National Bank Board, they sort of control the National Bank's activities, working on the council because they approve the National Bank's spending and income, report to the Supreme Council. It would seem logical, and we were proud that there was supposed to be control by the Supreme Council in relation to the National Bank, to the rule of the National Bank. Now this function is transferred by this law from the National Bank Board to the National Bank. And now the cost of spending and income will form the very government of the National Bank. I think so. That this is in principle wrong. Why, then, is the Board of the National Bank as the main governing body that reported here to us. I think there's something about that. It's a big idea that doesn't make sense. So I think it needs to go back to the way it worked today. It is the National Bank Board that must approve the cost and income of the National Bank. That makes sense. And wages, and all the other forms of incentives to pay at the National Bank, it's someone who needs to see, at least, the National Bank Board. We destroyed another mechanism that predicted that the exorbitance of income, the cost of the National Bank's income would be directed to the Cabinet of Ministers only after the financial year had been completed, an audit would be done, and then, as a result, the funds would be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers. We've done and broken this string system that worked, and now every quarter we're going to count in the Cabinet of Ministers from. the excess of the National Bank's income over expenditure, which is not logical, there is no such practice, i.e. payment in advance. Remember, the National Bank is reporting that we're going to have 600 million overruns, and we're writing down whether, more faithfully, the Cabinet of Ministers is recording 10 billion, because we have to send it to the Euro, we have to send it to the swine flu. It was funny. I think it's all wrong. Further, I would like to go back to the Cabinet of Ministers: all the cities and schools are now swimming again, especially in Zakarpatta. And where they shared why they disappeared, I didn't find them on the program. In the press of the Cabinet of Ministers, anti-removal programs, integrated protection programs for the Tis River, and so on. It's gone for a while. Please return these programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u101	Yes, Easy, non-factionable. After him, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u102	Adam Ivanovich, what did I do to you that you're so sad to call my last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u103	No, I'm calling it your non-fractional membership with sadness.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u104	This isn't for long. This isn't for long.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u105	You were more active in your future.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u106	As to the substance of the bill under consideration. The Minister of Finance will be here by noon. Your honor, Fedor Alexiovich, may I have your attention? By reporting on the State Budget Bill this afternoon, you told us how much you love Kiev, today’s government. After lunch, you report a bill that takes billions of money into Kiev. By lunchtime, when you were introducing the budget law, you said you were giving 16 billion dollars to the local budgets. After lunch, you will consider changes to the Budget Code, which takes resources from local budgets. You must have been from your Kiev offices long ago going to the village, going to the wrecked rain centers, towns, cities, and not seeing people living there. There's no roads, there's no FAPs in the villages, there's no drugs to buy, there's no kindergartens, there's no schools to shut down through one village. And you're taking money from them. There's no heat at the club, there's nothing to buy a music center for, and there's young boys and girls out there who talk without a job, because the government can't do a job, they're sleeping. And your birth allowance doesn't make them have these kids, because they don't have a job, they don't have a salary. But you have pensions, 20, 30 thousand dollars, you have hundreds of thousands of wages, you have Mercedes, you have cabinets, you have government houses. And you have treatments, and you have sanatoriums where you rest after the hard work of breaking up the country. You have money for everything. But you don't have money for citizens of the country. I want you to know that you, the government, the Ministry of Finance, the current government, are personally in charge. You're responsible for the fact that grandparents can't buy medicine in the village because they can't teach their grandchildren, because they're taking money from PTU. Because instead of investing money in creating new jobs, you're eating them, you're stealing them into Euro, into other objects that the country's not actually holding on to. The basis on which our country is based is agriculture, it's industry. You don't support either. You're protecting the interests of importers who don't need to be brought here, you're cutting up cattle, you're taking people's jobs, you're taking two bracelets a liter. And the cheese in the shop is a pound, 70 bucks a pound. This is your work to the government of importers, who is rooting out production and depriving Ukraine of development prospects, cannot vote in favour of this law, nor of any other government that submits today's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u107	Dear colleagues! For help, although my colleague Lazko was in the session before lunch. The first bill was reported by Finance Minister Jaroshenko, and the second was his deputy Merkowski, so don't have a claim on Jaroshenko. Please, Kirilchuk. From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u108	Thank you. Kirilczuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Adam Ivanovich! I want to go straight to you first. I respected you and a lot of you in this room, because you're a man who's always looked at the letter of the law and tried to keep it, and what are you doing now? Why have you changed now? What happened to you? You see, there is a violation of article 140 of the Constitution by this law. And that's what our administration of the Supreme Council writes about -- you don't pay attention. You know very well that in order to look at the State budget, the budget of the Supreme Council should be considered on the profiling committee, both on the budget committee, and in the budget committee room, you closed your eyes on that. The National Bank's monetary and credit system has not submitted, is not available, cannot be considered at all. Next. If you look at the local budgets, you voted personally to impose a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, it is now deleted. You know that this legislation says that land and tax on them go exclusively to local budgets, it's all crossed out. Thus, for land problems and for the reduction or transfer of income tax, and for individuals, and for the pollution of the territory from local budgets, 11 billion dollars were taken from the paper. As a result, such a low percentage has never been before in the local budgets of the budget. You know all this, you see all this, but I know you're not speaking to the deputies in the hall, but Chechchev's raised hand will solve the question of how the House votes. But if there weren't for these "shows" in the room, no amendment, no law would have been passed. Why would you do that? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u109	Please, is there a need, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski, a closing word? Anatoly Ivanovich, won't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I once again want to thank you for such an active discussion. And this is where Easy came in, very much criticized, but I want to say, very little read the State Budget Act and the speech is very weak, because it's completely cut off from real life. I'm not torn up, I'm walking around the territory, I'm looking at how the development is going, I'm balancing. And Bill 7450 doesn't exactly take the money, and it just adds the money. Please read the explanatory note. So I think the proposals that you're going to make, we're also going to work on them, and in the second reading, we're going to have a balanced, harmonious law that will let you resolve all the problems that you're saying. Thank you for your attention. And please support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u111	Yes, do you have a need for Baran? Microphone, please. If the MPs are called and the guests are not allowed to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u112	Adam Ivanovich! I don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u113	Yes, dear fellows, come on. You know, I'm pretty much in solidarity with everyone who's been here. In that respect, unfortunately, from the year 2000 onwards, despite the government's budget, we are always faced with such a budget problem, with a budget change of half a hundred or a hundred laws, and we are faced with it. We're in front of the fact. And so, the honourable colleagues, the accusers of today's government, I repeat, starting in 2000, this know-how has been established. After that, after the Constitutional Court has finally adopted a decision last year and this year, including that it is clear that the Law on State Budget cannot amend other legislative acts, for the first time, I repeat, for the first time in the last 10 years, we are considering the Law on State Budget, and the Law on Amendments to the necessary laws relating to the Law on State Budget. Although I am here, colleagues, supporting you in one, and I would like to ask and point out the Cabinet of Ministers that it would be very good if we had considered this law some month ago, adopted it so that you would already be able to form the State Budget Act peacefully on the basis of this law. But we have what we have. I therefore propose to support Bill 7450 of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other Ukrainian legislative acts in the first reading. Please vote. [[17:22:30.]] For 259. Copy that. And there's another proposition, dear colleagues. He'll be in factions. The factions, please. Region Party - 173, Fatherland - 0, Our Ukraine - 20, Communists - 26, People's Party - 20, non-fractional - 20. There is a proposal to make a decision to shorten the deadline for the second reading within 7 days so that, as stated in the decree, we, along with the budget, will adopt this law. Please vote. [[17:23:13]] For 269 Decision taken. The factions? Well, it's the same thing as factions. Let's do the factions. The Party of Regions - 178, Parenthood - none, Our Ukraine increased 21 and Communists - 26, the People's Party - 20, the non-fractionals also increased 24. Dear colleagues, we should be looking at Bill 0884 right now. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the regulation of the activities of banks]] [[second reading]] But there is one but. In view of the fact that this law of years 6 or 4, when it was prepared for second reading, was totally out of line with 116 articles, if I am not mistaken, some more than 20 amendments were made here that had nothing to do with the bill. So one more time, I'm going to refer in this case to the Finance and Banking Committee, as well as to other committees. Please, when preparing drafts for second reading, do not allow changes to be made that were not considered in the first reading except for new drafts. When a new law is written, then it's clear that you can make any proposals. And when you make changes to the laws in force, the second reading only changes the articles discussed in the first reading. Therefore, I would like to request a review of the bill. No, we can't film it yet, I'm just asking the profile committee to do it quickly, and I think we're going to accept it soon. Stanislaw, we're not looking at it, we're putting it off, we're putting it off. And you work on the committee, and you're also a member of that committee. Work hard to get the 116. This is a special thought when we consider it, and we do not consider it. Well, please, one minute or you won't last.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has allowed me to speak with a special mind. I was going to say, the bill is four years old. Suddenly, with a delay of 4.5 years, very many proposals were made. New articles have been introduced into 22 articles. 9 articles concluded by the Legal Authority – direct violation of the Constitution is carried. Today, the National Bank has a legislative initiative to make these amendments. I'll just give you one example. Today there must be 500 million statutory capital under this law. In Europe, why 500 million? In Europe, 5 million euros, in Russia, 2 million euros. Today we already have 8 million euros. Why do we need 50 million euros? 70 percent of the banking system should die now? Somebody give me an answer. And these are small and medium-sized banks that serve small and medium-sized businesses. Who wants to destroy, along with small, medium-sized businesses, the financial institutions that serve them? Let them answer these questions. So I ask that our committee consider, break down the first law and actually the second law in the new edition, let the National Bank make proposals as a subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u115	Yes, dear colleagues, once again, please don't make any trouble about this. The only problem is to bring it in line with 116 articles. I think we'll look at it next plenary week. That's it. A draft Act amending article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration. Yes, please, this is Sweden written down. [[on take-up under guard]] [[Registration number 7084]] Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement in accordance with the Rules considered the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 155 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the reasonableness of the application of a charge under guard]] [[Registration number 7084]] The bill envisages a wider use of alternative precautionary measures, the establishment of clear formalised criteria for the application of seizure under guard, and the justification for such a step. In particular, article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code is presented in a new edition, which foresees the following novels. First, taking into custody as a precautionary measure can be applied to crimes for which the law provides for penalties in the form of deprivation of liberty for more than five years, in the event of the impossibility of applying a more mild precautionary measure. It used to be three years ago. In addition, only in exceptional cases can the taking of custody be applied to crimes for which the law provides for a term of imprisonment of no more than five years. The law lists six such exceptional reasons. The following is a very important situation. In cases of crimes that are punishable by law in the form of deprivation of liberty for no more than 5 years, taking into custody cannot be applied to persons who are suspected or accused of committing a crime for the first time, except those who are declared to be in international search, to women who are pregnant or have children under 3 years of age, to persons who, at the time of choosing this precautionary measure, are recognized by persons with disabilities and groups, to persons who in the established legal order are recognized as having severe diseases that are incompatible with the existence of a person in custody and require special treatment conditions. Third. Pretrial detention facilities for persons with tuberculosis who have been taken into custody as a precautionary measure are specialized antituberculosis facilities of the central executive body in the field of health care and the central executive body on the execution of sentences. In this way, we solve the problem of maintaining TB, which is not yet regulated by law. There were 12 amendments to the project. Of these, 10 are included in whole or in part. 2 overruled. Amendment No. 7 was rejected because the committee decided to leave the correct position in the first reading. The committee recommends the adoption of a bill in the second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 7084]] Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u117	Thank you. Honorary colleagues who have made amendments that are not fully considered or counted insist on their suggestions or who want us to discuss an amendment. Yes, Yavorowski, please. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u118	This is the 11th amendment. It provides an opportunity, protects pregnant women, here's the Oilman talking about it, and the first group's invalids, I think it's very normal, especially those who first got, let's say, arrested there. I think it's very normal and humane. It would be wise to accept such an amendment. It's partially accounted for. Even I find it difficult to understand what is involved and in what other article. As a result, I would ask Adam Ivanovich to put the vote to the vote and check on the national deputies for humanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u119	Yes, please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. What is meant by "partially counted", 11 amendments. Here we are talking, indeed, about pregnant women, about their previous imprisonment. Page six, page seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u120	11th, yes. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u121	There is, there is. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, up here on page six, see: in cases foreseen in part two of this article, taking into account as a precautionary measure cannot be applied to persons who are suspected for the first time, to women who are pregnant, or who have children under 3 years of age, to persons who, at the time of choosing this precaution, are recognized as disabled by the first group and so on. Your text is basically repeated here in the right column of page 6, just above your revision. So it's counted, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u122	Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u123	Then what other offer did the authors make? None. Then, with your permission, I'm voting on the second reading and the whole bill number 7084, namely the draft Act amending article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the basis of the application of the charge under guard]] Please vote. [[17:33:43]] For-129 Not supported. I understand the second one again. I'm just explaining that you and I often use the terms again first, second again with one goal: to delay time for reflection, and the Rules provide for a specific. When we take a second step, we should point out what we need to work on during the second. And this is what we're doing with you: we're sending you back to the second, the committee, I don't mean this, any committee in a week or two comes back to the session room with the same bill and offers it to us. But there's a second proposal, please vote in favour of sending the bill for re-reading. [[17:34:56]] For 327 Decision supported. But once again, committee leaders, committee heads, please note my words. So when we look at it again, we're going to redo the question. Please go to, yes, we have another bill. Draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on keeping periods under guard]] Bondica Project. Yes, that's the first reading. Registration number 7343. Please, Bondik, the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u124	Dear Chairman Adam Ivanovich! I ask you to withdraw this bill. Because I was assured that a parallel bill was being prepared that was absorbing this legislative initiative of mine. And I agree with that. So please remove it from consideration for a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u125	Yes, we, therefore, support the author’s proposal. And we'll take it off the table. And there'll be a new bill, a session soon, and we'll put it in the agenda. Please support this motion to withdraw the bill. Vote. [[17:36:30.]] For 247 Thank you. Dear colleagues! There is a similar request from the drafters. Baranov, Bebelzenko, Serbin, so that we can take a bill under number 6487 as well. Please support this proposal, take it off the table. It's about simplifying the decoupling of state and municipal property. Please vote off the motion. [[17:37:11]] For 271 Also supported is the offer. Yes, here we go to the section entitled “Re-examination of issues with proposals from the President of Ukraine”. Bill 5497 of the Ukrainian Law on amber with proposals from the President is under consideration. Please report to the First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection of the Romanov Environment. Get Scoobenko ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u126	Where's it written? The president asked the deputy to report. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Ukraine's Law on amber on 9 October this year, which was signed by the President of Ukraine. The preamble to the Ukrainian Law on amber defines that it aims to prevent unsanctioned amber-sort mining, to ensure environmental protection, to develop amber-serb processing, to increase employment. At the same time, the analysis of the law’s text shows that it does not define a mechanism for the systematic solution of existing problems in the field in question. The law proposes to settle only individual issues of concern. The main points made by the President of Ukraine to the law are this. Articles 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Act, which reveal the content of government administration and regulation in the field of mining and treatment of amber and raw material. In addition, the law does not provide appropriate mechanisms to stimulate, encourage and treat the development of drilling for raw amber, and develop competitive relations in this area. The other one. The Ukrainian law stipulates that the approval of district councils is referred to as the granting of temporary use for the development of rustic-sort crops in ancestry and non-industry sites; the granting of special permits for the use of amber nadramas in genera and non-industry shows. [[Article 12]] However, the assignment of district councils with the designated powers is contrary to legislative acts, since only local significance is involved in the recognition of district councils. Regarding the beneficial fossils of national importance to which amber has been placed in the established order, the Codex on Harassment has given the district council only the authority to agree on the problem of giving gifts for use in this beneficial mine. Third. It should also be noted that this law takes effect from the day it was published. Article 22 of Ukraine’s law provides that the payment for the issuance of special permits for the use of nadrama is only included in the local budgets. At the same time, according to article 2, paragraph 22, of the Law on the State Budget for the Year and paragraph 31, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, part two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, one, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, It should also be pointed out that the President of Ukraine, following a work trip to the Plains region, has been instructed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on amber, which would provide a comprehensive solution to the problems of mining and dealing with it. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposed that the Ukrainian Law should be rejected, such as that that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, the basic legislative acts governing the protection of the environment, the production of beneficial fossils of public interest, which include amber. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u128	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u129	Yuri Carmazin. I certainly welcome the President's third veto to impose on these disadvantages that are allowed, but I would like to ask. You represent the government today, Mr. First Deputy Minister, you represent a government that somehow failed to send a minister who was here today, running, and written to us, representing the Minister of Environmental Protection. Obviously, Adam Ivanovich, it's a note for you to have the ministers report anyway, or they only have the first deputies to fight. And I have a question for the deputy minister. Why did you not explain most of the violations of both the Constitution and the Environmental Protection Act, and the Earth Code, and the Nadra Law, and all the other laws that the President has just reminded you of? Why didn't the government and the ministry do it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u130	When this document was directed to the Ministry, we also emphasized that these proposals must be taken into account. And as of today, three observations are not taken into account by the developer of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u131	Please, Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u132	Yuri Prokopchuk, “The House of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Father of the Father”, Ravenshkina. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, Ravenščina is in fact a monopoly on amber mining, namely Sarninščina, the Klesov genealogies. And this problem, unfortunately, it's been going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, because our amber is being exported to Poland, to other Baltic republics, including, then it's being imported in the form of ready-made production. We lose enormous resources, including for the development of local self - government and territory. So at the end of the day, will this issue be resolved, even though with the continuation of the law, it is possible to amend it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u133	Thank you for asking. I have already informed you in my statement that there is a President's mandate to develop a new Law on amber, which will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in January next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u134	Please, Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u135	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, “BUT – Fatherland”. I would like to thank the author of this bill, Shershun, who, by the way, is also in a serious position today, he has taken up some sort of order. But would it not be wise for the President to sign this law and immediately give instructions as to what amendments or amendments to this law should be made? Because you didn't say the president gave the order, but it's hanging in the air. When you, the Ministry, are given such a bill or something like that. I have such a specific question. Will we wait a few years?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u136	Thank you for asking. I've already said that in January-month 2011, this law will be introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u137	Yes, have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u139	From the committee, the head of the committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Vladimir Petrovich Skoubenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u140	Mr. Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine commissioned the President of Ukraine to consider the proposal for the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law on amber. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law as one that does not correspond to certain articles of the Constitution and basic legislative acts that govern it. The president's main remarks to this law were this: this is a position that reveals the content of government and regulation in the field of amber-cheese mining and treatment. The other one. The assignment of district councils to authorize the use of amber for the development of crops is contrary to legislative acts that are fundamental. Third. Under the Constitution, the law. Under the concept of law, all issues relating to the use of land for the extraction of amber cheese are resolved only by local governments. Four. Under the law under consideration, the city, village and rural councils are empowered directly to ransom citizens and users of amber nadr, which they accidentally found, as well as the amber-cheese extracted from them. And the fifth. The law introduces a special, unlike the general, approach to paying for the use of amber naphtha. According to the law under consideration, the economic activities of legal and natural persons, operators, and individual citizens involved in the production of amber cheese, processing, manufacture of products from it, amber products, are not subject to licensing. This is contrary to the Ukrainian law on the licensing of certain activities. On the basis of the statement, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Law on amber. This is also the conclusion given by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. All the president's comments were taken into account in the drafting of the bill. In general. The provisions of articles 5 to 9 have been specified in accordance with the Ukrainian Code of Conduct on the use of nadra. The bill complies with the rules of the Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government concerning the powers of local self-government authorities and local executive authorities in matters of land administration of state property. The bill complies with the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity and with the Ukrainian Criminal Code by deleting the relevant articles. Article 6 of the Code states that the introduction of beneficial fossils into state and local fossils is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been proposed in the drafting of the Act to take amber cheese, which is extracted from ancestry and non-industrial sites, to useful fossils of local importance. Such a proposal takes full account of the comments made by the President of Ukraine regarding the granting of district councils on the issue of the use of numerals. Taking into account the results of Ukraine's amended Law on amber, with a view to legislative regulation of relations related to the mining of amber-sort in ancestry and non-industrial manifestations, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support and accept Ukraine's amended Law on amber. And as far as the bill to be presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is concerned, it may be a complement to or a change to existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has acted wisely. But the president's proposal was to reject the bill. And you offer to accept it with the President's proposals. If not for the main proposal, he makes a comment and then writes: In response to this proposal, the bill is rejected. Here's if you didn't have the word "refuse," yes, then you've taken the President's proposals into account, and we'd have the opportunity to vote. Dear colleagues! I will now ask these questions according to Article 135 of the Rules, we will determine. The only thing I want to point out is what you've all been saying, and including introducing a bill from the President, is that we all understand that the real question of amber needs to be settled. And the President has commissioned us to consider this issue in January. So I'm voting on the President's proposal that the amber bill be rejected. Please vote on the President's proposal. [[17:51:22]] For 254 Decision taken. The Law on amber has been rejected. [[Registration number 5497]] The Ukrainian Act on Speedy Review of Regulatory Acts, Adopted by Authorities and Officials of Local Self-Government, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, is under consideration. [[Registration number 7030]] Report to the President of the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko, prepare for the Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u142	Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, on October 19, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted 241 votes in a second reading and in general the Ukrainian Act on Speeding Up Review of Regulatory Acts, adopted by Authorities and Officials of Local Government. The need for the adoption of legislation is defined by the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme as one of the main steps towards improving the business climate and creating favourable conditions for investment to come, and ensuring accelerated economic growth. The Head of State is convinced that the implementation of this law by local authorities will reduce regulatory pressure on economic operators by simplifying regulatory procedures and reducing the financial and other costs associated with them. At the same time, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by law, one of the subjects of the review of such regulatory acts directly identifies the heads of the district councils in Kiev, and the work of the review of the district regulatory acts in the city of councils is placed on working committees that are formed solely by the heads of the district councils in the cities. It is not taken into account that the decision of the Kiev City Council of 9 September 2010 on the organization of district management in Kiev, adopted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law “On the Capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev”, taking into account the changes made on 7 September 2010, the regional council in Kiev was eliminated on 31 October 2010. [[No. 7/4819]] Under such circumstances, a significant array of regulatory acts previously adopted by authorities and officials of local self - government in the areas of Kiev will not be subject to the statutory expedited review. In order to avoid such a situation, the head of State proposes to put appropriate work into the work of the city of Kiev on a working commission made up of the city’s city head. The submission of the general results of the work of the work commission to the Kiev City Head and the monitoring of the enforcement of the relevant regulatory acts in accordance with the principles of State regulatory policy in the Kiev City State Administration. Given the President's statement, he's proposing. First. The second sentence of part two of article 3 should be supplemented by the words “and the working commission formed by the Kiev City Head shall also carry out a review of the regulatory acts adopted by the regional councils in Kiev”; The other one. In the first part of article 8, paragraph 3, the following wording reads: “The Kiev City Head on the regulatory acts adopted by the regional councils in Kiev, their authorities, the officials, the heads of the district councils in Sevastopol, in accordance with the Kiev and Sevastopol City Administration”. To supplement paragraph 4 after the words “Kyivan City Head, as regards the regulatory acts adopted by the Kyiv City Council, its executive body, the Kiev City Head”. Please support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u143	Yes, are there any questions? Karmazin has a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u144	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Yuri Romanovich, you are certainly a talented man, but you can't help but realize that the elections and the city of Kiev were not unconstitutional. You cannot fail to understand and fail to understand that the authorities in Kiev have been usurped in this way and that the city’s head has been removed. But now you've voiced a proposal that's signed by the President, whether it's "faximile" standing, I don't know. I, by the way, ask the chairman and the Head to tell us when the facsimile stands and when the signature and the facsimile do not accept, out of respect for Parliament. But you suggest that the President proposes from you, and that the exercise of control over the taking of appropriate acts is appropriate for the Kyiv City Administration, or the Kyiv City Head's control body, to control how this, these regulatory acts, were conducted under his direction. What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u145	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I assure you that all the initiatives that come to Parliament at the signature of the President have been made by him personally and every decision he proposes to approve the Ukrainian Parliament has been personally considered, studied carefully and proposed in the Supreme Council. With regard to the mechanism being offered, it came about for objective reasons, and you know it. Since you and I have been in pain for regulatory policy to contribute to the development of entrepreneurship, according to the local self-government bodies that we have had to review a number of decisions with you, and in Kiev the circuit councils that have been eliminated, we have to settle this issue. That's what the President says in his remarks. It was on the Kyiv City Council that the decision was taken as a representative body in Kiev, the Kiev Territorial Society, and it was this body that would carry out the work. As far as preparation is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u146	Yeah, well, it's all written there. Natalia, you're about to perform. Yes, Queen, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u147	The distinguished representative of the President in Parliament, I have a question for you. From the time the President's proposals for the bill were received until its consideration in the Chamber, an administrative reform was undertaken. And I would now like to ask you how this bill will work, the essence of which is that the ad hoc authorized body, to which is the central body of the executive branch, which ensures the implementation of the public policy in the area of entrepreneurship, that is, the State Enterprise, which has been eliminated under administrative reform, will now implement this law. So this is going to be another campaign for deregulation and for setting up a business climate, what you've been talking about so well, or it's going to be another veto for this law again, and we're going to be finishing for another three months, and then all the local authorities are going to grow up with so many regulatory acts that nothing is going to deregulation is going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u148	Thank you. Thank you, Natalia Yuriovno. I am very moved by your concern for entrepreneurs, but as a lawyer, I would like to inform you that the constitutional principle of the continuity of power is in place in Ukraine. And regardless of the institution that implements regulatory policy, and now as a result of the optimization that takes place within the framework of administrative reform, these functions are transferred to the relevant ministry, the implementation of the law that we have adopted with you will be sustained. So regardless of what the central authority is called, the executive body that will implement this law will work. Deregulation is going to happen, and we're going to be with you, you're going to be in control, and we're going to be in power to provide deregulation, and we're going to be helping entrepreneurs together to make our economy grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u149	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Natalia Yuriovna, you have asked a lot of questions, and she will now speak from the committee forcefully and flamefully, and we will support their proposals. Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u150	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words in reply to the representative of the President. You know, today, entrepreneurs are asking for free, not to help them, not to interfere. And, of course, we are all happy that our power works without interruption, it may be better that it rests sometimes, because when it works, the regulation in our country increases several times. On 19 October, the Supreme Council supported the bill on second reading and in general, and the President made his proposals. The Committee supports these proposals. These relate to the characteristics of the review of regulatory acts in the city of Kiev and the town of Sevastopol. I will stress once again that local authorities print regulations that are sometimes totally inconsistent with the principles of public regulatory policy. The principles of public regulatory policy are, above all, the appropriateness of decisions, adequacy, efficiency, balance, predictability, transparency and consideration of public opinion. Regrettably, today most decisions are taken in the country without taking into account the principles of regulatory policy. It is also proposed to establish a 4th phase of the accelerated revision of the established common lists of regulatory acts adopted by local authorities: Analyse, prepare proposals on its results, compile consolidated conclusions and further monitor their implementation in accordance with the principles of public policy. Thus, the control of the deregulation proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers had to be exercised by the central executive authority, which ensured the implementation of the State's entrepreneurship policy. As you have heard, under administrative reform, this body has been eliminated. That's why we can understand that we're going to adopt this law, and then we're going to recommend that it be implemented. But there will be no one to control deregulation in the country. The bill provides an opportunity for a re-examination of the rules of the acts that can be carried out by a specially authorized central executive body on matters of public regulatory policy. As I told you before, there is no such body in our country, but the bill will now be with you, the Council of Ministers. the relevant local public administrations. The document sets a clear time frame for each phase. So you and I will be able to do this work as soon as possible if we have another organ. This law, which is largely without prejudice to the rights and powers of local governments, undertakes the task of carrying out all acts in accordance with the laws of regulatory policy. When the law enters into force, it is possible to carry out large-scale audits of local self-government bodies and decisions by their officials in Ukraine. Yeah, it really takes a long time to do that. Sadly, only when we reached that decision had such an organ been eliminated. It is therefore hoped that a new body will emerge and that the deregulation in the country will continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m1.u151	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Huh? No speeches, that's the President's veto. I emphasize once again, there are no speeches when the President's veto is under consideration. Please take a look at the schedule. Dear colleagues! We will now determine, vote. The only thing I would ask is, you know how many Natalia Juryian actively and other deputies raise these questions. But it is probably time to decide what to do in the complex. And so almost every day we're looking at some fuse, sorry I said that. That's the law we're making, then we're making it. There's something wrong with it, and there's something wrong with it. I think maybe you can put in a bill that solves these problems. Because for two or three years now, we've only been looking at laws on regulation and deregulation and visas and now there. And the car is there now. According to Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure, I am voting. That's the order. We will be, as the committee considers supporting all the President's proposals, I will put each of the President's proposals separately. The President's first proposal is put to the vote. The second sentence of part two of article 3 should be supplemented by the following words: “And the work commission formed by the Kiev City Head shall also carry out a review of the regulatory acts adopted by the district councils in Kiev. ” Please vote. [[18:05:53]] For 263 Presidential amendment supported. Another repair. In article 8, part 1, paragraph 3, the following wording is added: “The third city head of Kiev on the regulatory acts adopted by the district, in Kiev, the councils and their bodies, officials, district heads, in Sevastopol, council, in accordance with the Kiev and Sevastopol City Administration”. Please vote. [[18:06:32]] For 255 Supported. And 3, the last amendment of the President: to complete paragraph 4 after the words “the Kiev City Head” with the words “for regulatory acts adopted by the Kiev City Head, its executive body, the Kiev City Head”. Please vote. [[18:07:02]] For 263 All offers are supported. I now look at the adoption of the entire Ukrainian Act on Speedy Review of Regulatory Acts, adopted by the authorities and officials of local self-government, taking into account all the President's proposals. Please vote. [[18:07:33]] For 261 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, thank you for your fruitful work. We did a pretty good job with you today, gave the country hope for the 2011 budget. Tomorrow we're working on a day-to-day order offered by opposition representatives, factions. At this evening’s meeting, I declare it closed.
