ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:13]] The 404 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council declared open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the Supreme Council's work at the plenary meetings on March 2, 2010. 11 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 1 decree was passed, 3 bills were adopted on a basis, 1 bill was sent for re-reading, and 6 bills were rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the national deputies with announcements, requests, and information. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please give me the names of the national MPs. Yes, from Sergei Sas' procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would ask you, after all, that we have become the law, to carry out the provision of the second part of the first article 27, where the Chairman's duties are to report to us who is absent from the Hall for important reasons, who is ill, in accordance with the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council. And this list is to be announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u3	Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate messages. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the national MPs. National MP Danilenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Sphinx.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u4	Vladimir Danilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! My goal today is to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and you, honourable national deputies, to the problem of rehabilitating children with deafness. This problem is a national one and needs an immediate solution at the state level. Deputies! You may have been approached on several occasions by your parents to help you with treatment, or to resolve the issue of providing necessary implants. But maybe you and I got answers that referred to the fact that the state couldn't provide the child with the necessary implant. In order to prove the extent of the problems that have arisen in our country under the rule of irresponsible officials, I will provide you with such information. As of 8.02.2010, the State Institute of Otoloringology of Professor Colomaychenk of the Academy of Sciences is in line with the system of cohlear implantation at the state expense of more than 500 children of Ukrainian citizens under 5 years of age. Implantation is effective over a period of 3 months to 5 years. In the past 2009, only 14 implantation systems were purchased at the expense of the State budget, which, of course, does not allow the rehabilitation of children with hearing loss to be dealt with in a timely manner, nor does it allow them to be integrated into society. Institute experts are able to perform up to 200 operations a year. Imagine that the child who is now in the queue of 500, who is in an incorrigible situation, will receive this implant in 35 years. This is a disgrace to Ukraine’s health system! In 2008, the concept of the 2008-2012 State Hearing Program was developed and presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, which was supported by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, but was not funded. The funding and implementation of the program allowed for the organization and implementation of an early hearing system in Ukraine, namely the screening of hearings in newborns, an objective study of hearing of early childhood children, and the provision of children with profound hearing impairments. The Hearing programme would avoid the disability of deaf children, have an economic impact on the elimination of 56 schools and 30 preschools for deaf children. On the basis of the foregoing, I request the presiding officer to give the apparatus appropriate instructions so that my statement is considered a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care, to take immediate action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u5	Finish up, please. Thank you. National Deputy Safiullin, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! One of the world's highest sports forums, Winter Olympics in Vancouver, recently concluded. You're probably familiar with the performance by Ukrainian athletes. Without winning any medals, the Ukrainian assembly took its place among the outsiders. For the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence, Ukrainian athletes were not represented in women's solitary figure skates, bobsleys, equally sad statistics and sleepy sports. We are holding the Ukrainian Championship in the Baltic. We MPs see the outcome of the Olympic Games not only as the outcome of the professional sports forum, but also as an essential indicator of the state of health of the nation and the inextricably linked conditions for the healthy lifestyle of the growing generation. Today's outcome forces us to recognize that the problem of sport in our country has become systemic in recent years. Sports of excellence must be based on children's youth and mass sports, otherwise from where to take future champions. What are the results of the Ministry of Sport's activities in this regard? In recent years, the lack of a single Olympic training centre has not taken a single step towards the creation of a modern Olympic base and adequate logistics for the national assembly. A country with a population of 46 million has no Olympic sports base at the world level. Since 2005, there has been a trend towards a reduction in the cost of developing the logistics base of high-tech sports, and only 2007 has the exception. The situation of funding for its development in 2009 is generally catastrophic. No cash has been allocated to the reconstruction of the logistics base of the sport of higher achievements. In addition, in recent years, the Ministry of Field Affairs has not made any legislative proposals to address these and many other issues of high-level sport. And those laws that have been passed by Parliament and require immediate decisions at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers and Ministries are simply blocked for a long time. In addition, we are witnessing today that, without any analysis and expertise, school-level standards are being revised, the number of physical lessons is declining, children's sports schools are closing down, and the number of athletes is decreasing. Thus, during the 4 years of the Olympic cycle, the number of school students decreased by 15 sports in 15 regions. It is not clear how the number of teachers of DUSH will be increased by 20 per cent, which was announced in 2010. By suspending the financing and development of the logistics base of physical culture and sport, promoting the healthy lifestyle of an adult generation, the authorities have actually confirmed their indifference to the problem. Bottom line: failure at the last Olympics. The failure of Ukrainian athletes, who had already promised to punish the Minister of Sport, was a logical result of incompetent leadership and lack of leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u8	This is the result, the whole logical outcome of incompetent leadership and the lack of serious human resources policies, both within the Ministry and in the field at large. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u9	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun "Block of Lithuania" Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, we are once again on the threshold of an unprecedented spring - pollination phenomenon in Ukraine. Its difference from annuals is that the water is projected to be much higher. But even if the flood had been medium, the same part of Ukraine would have been submerged, some would have been flooded, and some would have been washed away. I'd like to give you a few figures that characterize systemic submersibles without spring or summer floods. By 2010, submerged areas in Ukraine had increased by nearly 1.7 times compared to 2004 and were distributed by 25 percent of the area. The impact of submerging the Mikolai region exceeds 52 percent, Odessa, and Hersonian 40 percent. The submerged areas are projected to expand by 30 percent by 2012. The elimination of the effects of existing submersibles, the prevention of submersibles, and the maintenance of protection systems in Ukraine as a whole require more than 10 billion dollars a year. The most threatening situation is expected in the Volinsky, Ravensky, Žitomirsky, Lvivsky, Kharkiv, Lugansk, Donetsk, Mikolai, and Odessa regions. We realize that nature is a great force, but it must be taken into account in its daily activities rather than grabbing pumps, excavators, and shovels when it is already destroying the house. One of the reasons why we have faced a situation is that we view it as unsatisfactory activity or inaction of executive authorities and local self - government bodies. There's a wide range of collecting and harvesting networks, a rainwater sewer. Floods of rivers built up up to the shore, often the possibility of flooding surface and groundwater covered by engineering and transport communications, and the management of coastal protection lanes is being disrupted everywhere. He doesn't work for prejudice and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, as early as 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended the creation of a government commission on these issues. The Cabinet of Ministers, however, found this to be inappropriate. And just before the water saw, he created a government commission for 2010. Where is the system? One more document to be mentioned is the decision of the Committee on Ecology as a result of the exit meeting recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop and approve by 1 July 2009 a State programme to prevent and combat land submerging. However, the Cabinet of Ministers has found the development of such a program to be of no use. As a result, before floods and catastrophic floods and submersibles are threatened, we try to make up for the damage, and we spend huge costs, human resources, technology, and often without special success.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u12	Therefore, the Lithuanian "Block of Lithuania" faction in the Supreme Council considers it necessary to warn such a situation, for the Cabinet of Ministers to proceed immediately to the development of the State's General Flood Prevention Program and to submerge the territory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Igor Skina, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Zinova Skutjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, Ukraine stands on the threshold of Euro-2012. Preparations for the championship include a significant increase in funding, the construction of new roads and the reconstruction of existing roads between major participating cities. We had five years in reserve. Of these, we have lost two years, thanks to the government's free policy in this sector. Over the remaining two years, we will definitely fail to implement all the projects that have been planned, even with 100 per cent funding. In the past year, less than 10 kilometres of roads have been built — all over the country. Even more critical is the ongoing repair of existing roads. If the repairs required 300-400 thousand square metres of road surfaces in recent years, this figure is now estimated to be about 1 million square metres, an additional 15 billion bracelets. The government doesn't know how to take them. It was planned that the oil excise assembly would be the source of construction financing. Experts estimate that the figure was to be around 10 billion bracelets in 2009. Kabmin did not respond to numerous requests for how much money had been received from petroleum excise duties. The funds were no doubt collected, but the “Kravtodor” did not see the money. There is another non-earmarked use of Kabmin's budget, which once again demonstrates the style of manual financial management. Initially, the idea of introducing this tax as an additional source of funding for road construction was compromised. I do not rule out that consumers who are donors of excise collection may take the initiative to abolish it in the future. A recent meeting of the Association of Carriers and the Transport Union was held, at which the Government's action to address the problems of the road transport sector caused criticism. Transporters are still working for wear, and they suffer enormous losses. The lack of funding by Kabmin for the road complex has led to the immediate repair of tens of thousands of kilometres of roads in Ukraine. The poor condition of the road surface leads to an increased wear-out of the motor vehicle, car rubber, fuel consumption increases from 50 per cent to 100 per cent. Not to mention a significant increase in road accidents. The competitiveness and activity of carriers has decreased dramatically. The country's transit capacity has fallen because foreign carriers prefer to travel over Ukraine. Auto-owners and auto-enterprises ask a reasonable question. And who will compensate them for the multibillion-dollar damage they have suffered because of the poor condition of the roads. Transporters claim that today the state of road cover and industry is much worse than in the last 20 years. Conclusion. Objective assessment of the work and activities of the current Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u16	In view of his lack of responsibility for his work, corruption, non-professionalism could only be a vote in favour of his resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u17	Zinovo Shkutak is transferring the right to speak to Andrya Parbia, the faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u18	And who else? And since the next one was supposed to be actually Andrew Parobius, he has six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u19	Papuy Andry, “For Ukraine!” MP, “Our Ukraine” party. On February 25, 2010, the European Parliament approved the European Parliament resolution on Ukraine. In paragraph 20 of this document, the European Parliament expresses its deep regret that the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, has assigned the leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists to Stephen Bandera the name Hero of Ukraine. To my deep conviction and to our deep conviction, this position of the European Parliamentarians is trendy and based on false pseudohistoric facts. For me there is no doubt that we have witnessed once again when the Kremlin lobby in Europe is doing everything possible to strike Ukraine and to stop Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic moods and Euro-Atlantic integration. In order to dispel these points, we have also sent to the President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, and to the European Parliament, who voted in favour of this decision, the historical facts concerning Stephen Bandera and the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. I want to stress these facts, because without history, no one has the right to make similar assessments and speculate on this story. So I would like to point out that in 1939, members of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists were the first in Europe to take up arms against Nazism. During the occupation of Zacarpathian Ukraine by Nazi Germany’s satellites, members of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists were the first in Europe, stressing that they were militarily opposed to Nazi aggression. On June 30, 1941, the Act of Restoration of Ukrainian Statehood was proclaimed in Lviv. And it was by this act of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists that demonstrated once again the desire of all Ukrainians to gain their own statehood. I would like to point out that it was the Nazi regime that prohibited the adoption of this act. And all of the initiators of the act on June 30 found themselves in German concentration camps and, above all, the leader of the UN, Stephen Bandera. I would like to highlight a fact that apparently few of our citizens know, of those who are not interested in history, that the entire UN World War II leader, Stephen Bandera, conducted in a German concentration camp. His brothers Alexander and Basil were imprisoned in the sad - known Auschwitz, and then they were shot. How can we cooperate with the Nazi regime in the Nazi concentration camp? This is a fact that, in my opinion, is undeniable evidence that the UN has acted in the same way as against the Communist regime and against Nazi Germany. Dozens, thousands of Ukrainian patriots were shot by Nazi invaders just as they were shot by the Communist regime. The UPA army, which numbered hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, fought both against the Nazi regime and against the Communist regime. In concentration camps, UN leaders such as Olzic were shot by the Nazis by such leaders as Olena Telliga, a famous Ukrainian poet. And then talking about the UN's cooperation with Nazism -- it's not just the twisting of history, it's blasphemy and contempt for those hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who, with guns in their hands, fought for the Ukrainian state against both regimes. I would also like to point out that after World War II, Stephen Bandera was also living in German territory, and when he was killed by Communist intelligence, the entire German public stood on the side of Bandera. I would like to stress another fact that is very important. That no word at the time of the Nuremberg trial was condemned either the activities of the UN or the activities of the UPA, despite the very strong pressure of the Communist Soviet Union during the Nuremberg process. None of the civilized countries admitted that the UN or the UPA had cooperated with the Nazi regime. And that's why these facts that are happening today, I think, are exclusively engaged and are based on a deep ignorance of history. These facts, I stress, demean not only those who fought in the UPA, but today they demean all Ukrainians. Because today we live in a state that actually has those symbols: the Trident, the Blue Yellow Flag and the Hymn of Ukraine -- those are the symbols that the UPA army and the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists fought with in World War II. It was the only army in the Second World War that aimed to gain the Ukrainian state. If it weren't for them, there would be no Ukrainian state today, there would be no Ukrainian Parliament today, and we wouldn't be in this room. So today, literally right now, in a few minutes, a whole series of district councils of Western Ukraine will be making an appeal to the European Parliament, to the President of the European Parliament asking to review this decision. We send the Europarliamentaries documentary evidence that the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists fought Nazism the fastest in Europe. And we're also going to the European Parliament and we're going to write letters to the European Parliamentarians, where we encourage them to review the decision, because in a similar decision, I'm convinced that the goal of one is to leave Ukraine in Moscow's arms to destroy the Euro-Atlantic moods in Ukraine, because it's actually the patriotic Ukrainian electorate -- that's the electorate that's most favorable to Europe. This provocation will not succeed the Kremlin this time. I'm sure we'll find an understanding with Europe, and these misunderstandings we'll throw away in the past -- and we'll make them give up this position. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u20	Vladimir Landik, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Demishkan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u22	He's transferring the right to speak to the People's Demiscane. Please. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The catastrophic state of automobiles is a mirror of the country's economic state. Only the beautiful words of the road pits and the holes in the budget do not heal, work, and work. How did this government work? In 2007, it was put into operation after the construction and capital repairs of 990 kilometers [990 km] of roads. In 2009, there were 112 kilometers, 9 times less. In 2007, 102 trips to the villages were built, 2009-4. Thus, the government of Tymoshenko took care of the rebuilding of the village. Everyone in the hall knows that even on roads, the public means a pit in a pit, not to mention local roads. With full responsibility, I declare that the snowstorm of thousands of drivers and passengers of this winter is the primary result of the criminal actions of the government of Timoshenko, which froze the treasury accounts of passengers at the end of last year. People work 2-3 days a week, there's no way to buy materials, fuel, spare parts. The government owes one and a half billion dollars for the work done, and this debt increases. Of the nearly 120 billion dollars of government loans in 2009, not a penny was received for the construction of roads. In 2007, we took on a loan of 2.5 percent a year for 10 years and built a road at this cost. In 2009, Kkravutododor invested under 16.5 percent of a year for 2 years and did not build anything. And in 2010, we're going to have to pay 9 billion dollars, which is more than a real forecast for the coming of funds from the State budget. By not building anything, government leaders have been deceiving society by opening up the roadblocks built by the predecessors. For example, in August 2008, Timoshenko solemnly opened the Harkov-Novoskovsk road, which was built by the government of Yanukovic and was opened in December 2007. And these are the examples of tens. The top of cynicism is the artificial argument in 2009 to the bankruptcy of the state-owned stockholder company Automobile Roads of Ukraine. Of course, to buy everything for nothing. I remind you that in 2006, we had already stopped the judicial sanction, which was initiated by the same leaders who are now leading the sector. But I've already asked the Attorney General's Office to stop the prosecution of this case and to give a legal assessment to the guilty in adhering to bankruptcy. Respectable national MPs, world history shows that it was from the development of roads that the leading countries of the world began to emerge from the crisis and economic recovery: the United States, Germany, Canada, and many other countries. In the last two years, this free, unprofessional government has acted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u25	and led the road to destruction. At the time, a huge work to rebuild existing and build new roads is aimed at solving the tasks of the “Ukraine – for People” programme and the “Euro-2012” programme. And the sooner we get a new professional government, the better for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Please. Olena Shustik, instead of Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Kovalova.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u27	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm sorry, déjà vu. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Dear Radio and Telephony! The cynical farce and the legal system that began during the presidential elections are without hindrance to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In disregard of the rules of the Constitution, law, and morals, using the usual methods of counterfeiting bribery and blackmail, the party of bulldozer regions clears its way to absolute unbiased authority. Unfortunately, this is done under the complicity of the speaker, who allows political shulers to turn parliament into his servant. The democratic coalition and government, which were hampered by total permissiveness and by the notions of the state, began to destroy from within, unmistakably calculating the weak link. By holding fast to the chair and violating all norms and procedures, the Chief of the Supreme Council announced the murder of a democratic coalition. But fearing responsibility, he did not find the courage to say that it was his faction that came out of the coalition. It's a shame that Mikola Martinenko joined the illegal destruction of the plot of democracy without the authority of the NS-N faction. The fate of political traitors has always been a failure. The Ukrainian people will give their assessment of these events in the next election, and for the gravemen of the democratic coalition, they will be the killer. Today’s vote in favour of the resignation of the government is completely projected. When you say "a", you have to say "b". From now on, one truth for you: dance, as the master will say. You are already affected by the virus of fear and malice. Every time I make a point, we don't stick to authority, we don't stick to positions. The Yulia Tymoshenko Block is able to work effectively both in power and in opposition, and you know it too well. At present, it is not about personal destiny but about stability in the state. By depriving the country of legitimate government, which under the current conditions, one has maintained and kept the situation under control, you're impacting the entire state's life support system. But remember, all the responsibility for the situation in the country now will be borne by Yanukovich and his newfound counterparts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u28	The national deputy Kovalova hands over the right to speak to Sergio Ribuku, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u29	Dear national MPs, colleagues! It's often as thick as it is now that we're speaking in front of each other, in the hall in the galleries, all over the political talks, and yesterday, Catherine Vaszczuk was speaking out of white, anxious about the state of affairs in agriculture, in the APC, in the village, few people listened to a colleague. And so they forgave themselves, and it was as if nothing had happened. Then I will not speak out, draw my own conclusions. Today, we receive hundreds of letters from peasants, telling us the truth with their mouths. I will only read having that limited time, endurance from this letter. Because they're not my prejudiced conclusions anymore. It's in the background. It's from the Plains region, deep Polissa that the villagers sent us to the committee of such a letter. Against the backdrop of a sharp decline in financial support for the APC, a sharp rise in prices for the rural industrial product group, all production has actually become a waste. For example. In the current year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has abolished such important government programs as crop subsidies, 30 per cent of the cost of agriculture, subsidies for young people of the World War II, under difficult climatic conditions, under mineral fertilizers. The government’s fuel supply is offered to transport about 150 kilometers [150 km]. The cost of the cavities to the technique has tripled. But the cooking price of milk is the same. The cost of grain fell by 30 percent, and no one buys it. The cost of electricity for businesses reached 70 kips per kilowatt, and there were 37 kpcs. The technical care of tractors is the whole abuse of common sense. In the Plain region, there's only one firm that has a technology license, and it's going to be 150 to 200 kilometers for a technical inspection of the tractor, and it's going to pay 100 dollars for fictitious technical care. We need to get the authority back. The technical condition of a licensed station’s vehicles is taken in photographs to pay 100 bribes. In order to register a lease on a portion of the rations for more than a year, it takes 200 dollars, and a half a thousand dollars of the rations -- count how much. And so on and so forth. What's more, the suction needs 24 billion dollars. Only 50 percent. No credit, no budget, no fuel. Are they sowing? Yes, sown! Only sown, you know, what Europe takes, grain traders, cheap loans will take back our land, our peasants will sit, watch, grow, and bring back 25 million tons of bread! These are the masters who suck! We'll drive you out today and we'll set you up, peasants, I promise you that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u30	Dear National Deputies! The speeches of the national MPs have been completed. With regard to the suggestions and requirements that have been made during the hearings of the National Deputies, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate addresses and assignments. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 231 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, article 14 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers” was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a proposal of 158 Ukrainian national deputies to consider the question of responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As you know, Your Honor, this question is included in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without a vote. All procedures for the preparation of this matter have been upheld and in accordance with article 232 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure for the Supreme Council of Ukraine are proposed to review the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers: a statement from the initiators to 45 minutes, a question from the initiator of the question and an answer to the question within 45 minutes, a statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in 45 minutes, a statement by the Head of the Court of Auditors is proposed in 5 minutes, if the proposal is to speak from the MPs and the need to ask questions, or to listen to individual ministers, until 15 minutes, statements by the committee and the deputy factions, are proposed to do so within 30 minutes and after the discussion of the question has been completed, to proceed to the consideration of the draft relevant decision. So let's move on to the question. From the initiators. What procedure? I regularly read the procedure to you by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please, within minutes of the factions. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u31	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am convinced that everyone wants everything under the Rules of Procedure Act, under the Constitution, so I want to bring you back to article 231 of the Law, where it comes from preparing for the Supreme Council's consideration the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. First, it has to be brought to the committee's attention, and the committees, according to the subject in their knowledge, no later than a four-day term, form and send questions to meetings, I repeat. Then paragraph 3 of 231 says that when there are answers, the government sends them answers within three days, and then these answers, along with the information, are given to the Ukrainian people's deputies. People's deputies weren't given anything, the committees weren't looking at anything, we weren't aware of committee decisions. Then, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, do you remember how we appointed the Prime Minister? We assigned him to get up. Hand over the cards, please, and let the command block those cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u32	Yes, please, Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wanted to remind you to announce who was missing in the hall for no good reason. And the next. The Supreme Council, as you know, includes in the agenda of the day the draft relevant acts. Thus, according to 87 articles of the Constitution, 25 articles of the Committee Law, 14 articles of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, 231, 232 of the Rules of Procedure Act, the Supreme Council adopts the Resolution of Disbelief. And there must be a project to do that. In accordance with article 91 of the Rules, a regulation and draft resolution of mistrust are required. We are given some determination for today. This is also the case in the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition to the Constitution and the three laws, it may be necessary to write in a ban that a decree should not be made on some responsibility but on the other hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u34	Finish it. Please let me finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, according to the 88th article of the Constitution, you are responsible for the organization of the consideration of matters, in accordance with the Rules, take every measure to deal clearly with the matter in accordance with the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, who else is asking? Peter Simonenko, please. Then from the faction of the regions, then from the Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u37	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I propose that we begin to consider this issue and it is very important that we begin to put order in the country today. I am discussing the need for unity of power today and the results of the last electoral campaign and the will of our electors, which requires the fulfilment of what was discussed during the elections. This, of course, today requires that all the verticality of power, including what is relevant to the President's exercise of his powers, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers, work for the exercise of the will of the electorate on time of election. I also consider it necessary to draw your attention to the fact that the failure to take this decision will lead to large-scale, in fact, further falsification, return, sabotage in the activities of the authorities. Because the vertical that is relevant to the administration and administration of the area will be broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u38	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u39	That is to say, the vertical of the administration will not work as well as the Cabinet of Ministers will be representatives of another ideology and other political force will sabotage the implementation of the programme. Therefore, it is with full responsibility that we should approach this issue. To accept it and to provide an opportunity today for real unity of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u40	One minute. Please, from the Party of the Regions. Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Here some of the deputies present appear to have not been familiar with the agenda in a timely manner today to ask that they have not made any proposals for a draft regulation that may be considered today. I would like to answer them that within a period of 10 days, according to the Rules, which is also the law of Ukraine, which is in force in the course of the consideration of the draft decree. Everyone had the opportunity to consider on the committee those who considered the matter necessary and the deputies to make a proposal on the draft regulation within a 10-day period. Therefore, if for some reason no one has done so, first of all he must delegate these problems to himself personally, not to the process of dealing with the issue in the sessional room today. There is nothing that prevents us from considering this issue today. Moreover, I fully agree with Peter Nikolaevich, who says that delaying this issue is actually on the part of the Government, on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u42	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u43	continues to exacerbate the problems in our State. We therefore insist that this issue be immediately addressed and appropriate decisions taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We've got a lot of work to do right now: 45 minutes of initials, 45 minutes of Prime Minister's speech, 45 minutes of answers to questions, then an account report. If we don't get to that question right now, we're just not going to make it. That's the first one. And the second moment, I think it's important. I think the debates are now procedural to some extent inappropriate. Why Is It Wrong? Because one of the largest factions in the population initiated the consideration of this issue. And the second faction demanded that this issue be considered not only today but also yesterday and even before. That's why I think there's a full consensus in this, there's work to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u46	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts, I mean factions. I inform you that on February 24th, after the work was completed, a total of 158 national deputies were registered from the faction of the Party of the Regions to consider the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On the same day, the initiative, or materials, was directed to the committees according to the Rules of Procedure with proposals to prepare appropriate questions for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, all the factions received these documents. At the same time, an appropriate message was sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the proposal to prepare the necessary materials from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, according to the Rules, are considering this matter within 10 days. What's more, the signatures don't fit. That was the last day of our consideration of the matter on Friday. The insistence, by the way, was from the BUT faction to deal with this issue on Tuesday, and so there were no questions and problems about what was not ready for this issue as they were trying to show today. What's more, I have to say that they insisted on addressing this issue in an off-the-shelf mode, that is, in an off-the-shelf session, and referred to the need to consider the draft decree initiated by the faction of the Party of the Regions, expressing mistrust in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, everything in the Rules plan is properly done, may be treated differently, but the requirements of the Rules are fully met. That's why I'm announcing the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In view of the fact that we have to conclude our consideration of the matter by making a decision or not making a decision, we should work to complete the consideration of the matter, as required by the Rules. So who's going to speak from the initiators? Azarov? Azarov Mikola Janović, please, 45 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u47	Respectable people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! 2008 and 2009: The Prime Minister, Mrs. Timoshenko, will enter the history of Ukraine as years of a unique failure in all aspects of our lives. Here you will see a slide promised by Mrs. Timoshenko when she went to the 2007 elections with the unique Ukrainian Breakdown Programme. Instead of a breakthrough, we had a failure, a disaster. And when analysts study the behaviour of markets, they explore the behavior of indices by zero to ten percent there or here, and make some predictions about it, unfortunately, in the years of the Timoshenko government, the indicators of the Ukrainian economy are measured together. It is in these units that we will, once again, build our own analysis. For the first time in 10 years, the country has been living without a budget, which is an instrument of public economic policy, living on what is called manual management. This means that neither industry nor public authorities nor investors have clear guidelines. This situation has been deliberately provoked by the Government. Because Timoshenko's financial policy is subordinated to only one: political environment. During this adventurous policy, the State was in the deepest socio-economic crisis that Ukraine had not known in the last 20 years. All spheres of activity of the State were affected: economic, financial, social, political. The control system is down, the execution is empty. Any non-standard situation is becoming a disaster. Similar sad records were set by the Government of Timoshenko in 2005. During the two years of so-called work, Ukraine lost a fifth of its gross domestic product — an indicator comparable to war. A fourth part of Ukraine's industrial capacity has been destroyed. We have far worse indicators than the CIS countries and the new members of the European Union, which have also allowed gross domestic product to fall. As a result of 2009, the decline in GDP in Ukraine is twice as deep as in Russia, three times deeper than in the Czech Republic. The decline in industrial production can be estimated on the slide. Let us move on to the specific indicators on which our people's lives depend. The production of beef and veal dropped by one and a half times, almost twice the production of pork. Even though Ukraine's national plum oil is no longer able to provide its citizens, it was produced by a quarter less last year. The Ukrainians began feeding Belarus oil. Imports of this product are increasing every month. And if you look at the light industry, which is one of those industries, where jobs can be created relatively quickly and inexpensively. The fall in the light industry is catastrophic. The so-called government support for chemical enterprises remained on paper. Domestic fertilizer production is declining. In two years, the production of synthetic ammonia fell by 40 per cent, almost one quarter less than the production of nitrogen fertilizers. When it comes to individual machine construction indicators, the drop is measured once again. This is a new indicator, a new indicator that belongs to this Government. The so-called engine support has resulted in a double decline in its production volume. In an extremely difficult situation, the industry, which has been supported by most European Governments, has put its anti-crisis programmes at the top of its agenda. Instead of the promised construction boom, the country received a long recession in the construction industry. Construction volumes fell three times again in two years. This is not just housing, which has decreased by 40 per cent in the last year, a third less in 2009 than in the previous year. Bridges, road crews, tunnels, subways have halved by a third the construction of pipelines, lines of communication, and energy savings. And this is infrastructure, and we're getting ready for Euro-2012. The situation in the social segment is not better. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 40 per cent less than the previous year has built a polyclinic, a medamabulatory, and half the schools in general. I will pay attention to the members of the Government. They're actually responsible for this! These are indicators for which each minister is personally responsible. I just looked at their reaction. It is not the MPs in the Hall, that is, the ministers are responsible for these unique failures and for this unique fall. Pre-school institutions were constructed four times less. Why did this happen? Because there's a shortage of working capital in construction. Credit support is not fully available. The investor's funding is zero. However, the Ukrainian Government's anti-crisis measures have been replaced by generous promises. I would like to point out that in the anti-crisis programmes of most countries, construction was the key to reorienting export capacities to the internal market, infrastructure development and employment. For example, Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Belarus had been able to re-establish positive developments in the construction of housing, industrial facilities and roads through state-owned investment, mortgage lending programmes. What about our so-called government? The law aimed at combating the crisis in the construction sector, adopted in Parliament as early as December 2008, is virtually ineffective, as the Government has never fully achieved a normative framework. We didn't even see any infrastructure projects on paper. Timoshenko promised to reduce Ukraine's dependence on imports of energy. As a result, the country had received over-priced import gas and, as a result, the competitiveness of the domestic producer in domestic and external markets had decreased. Gas disruptions in the first months of 2009 led to the halting of leading chemical industries. And now you're going to hear Timoshenko's statement, which is going to compare, I know, a completely faulty fourth quarter. The first quarter of 2009 and to see some positive developments at the beginning of the year. This is the ultimate deception, since it must be compared not to a crisis period, not to the depth of a pit, but to a pre-crisis period. And if we do that and only do so, we will see that, unfortunately, the fall continues. The slide shows Timoshenko's performance in the fuel and energy complex. I'll draw your attention to just a few numbers. Government policies in the fuel and energy complex were most destructive. As a result of the so-called “breakup”, the coal industry was dropped to the 1996 level. It thrives on corruption and the destruction of public funds. Over the course of two years, the coal industry has dropped by almost 4 million tons. The average number of cases decreased by almost a third. The introduction of new lions has nearly halved — from 163 to 96. Budget financing for capital construction, repair of mining equipment has decreased by 2.2 times. The integration of work into the future has already led to the reduction of more than 10,000 jobs in the industry. Most of the funds were allocated by the Government to pay wages without taking full care of long-term industrial development plans, especially important ones such as labour protection. Budget support for labour protection, which is in our case of coal industry trauma, has been reduced by 2 years 10 times. Let's think about it 10 times. This is because we have a large number of fatalities. This is when the core fund has reached 63 per cent. Only 18 per cent of the cleaning plants are equipped with modern cleaning equipment. Of the 10,000 appointments of the main stationary equipment, nearly half of them have exhausted their regulatory technical resources. In addition, by decision of the Government, industry has not made a transfer to the Pension and Other Funds in recent years. This debt has already amounted to more than 3.5 billion bracelets. No less problems in the production of energy resources. The volume of coal products today does not meet the needs of national energy. In February alone, nearly a million tons of coal was not delivered to the power plants. Since the beginning of the year, almost one and a half million tons have been extracted. [[in two months]] The lack of solid fuel for electricity production is hampered by the supply of the highest price of gas imported in Europe. In the past month alone, these supplies have increased by one and a half times. The main reason is coal deficit. There are only 868,000 tons left at the power plant, which is 3 million tons. Such a critical minimum has not been observed in all years of independence. In 2004, when we left the economy to that Government, we had total self-sustainment of electricity, we even had a surplus. The production of agricultural products, which was only recently the only industry demonstrating positive dynamics, has virtually ceased to grow. And we must be ashamed that the country that is most rich in black people in the world has become a food importer. State budget support for the industry has virtually been terminated. Reduced concessional lending of farmers, financial support to farmers, assistance to farmers for the purchase of agricultural equipment, payment of crop subsidies. The boundaries of poor imports and food smuggling have been opened. Think about it! Last year alone, 430,000 tons of meat and sub-products were imported to Ukraine, amounting to nearly $570 million. Milk products are 46,000 tons worth of $112,000. It is clear that the Government's import-oriented foreign policy is relentlessly destroying the domestic animal husbandry industry. A sector such as sugar production is destroyed. There are 56 sugar factories instead of 192. The sugar deficit in our country, let's think of this absurdity, the sugar deficit in Ukraine amounted to 500,000 tons. The price of it is 12 bracelets. Another soap bubble was the government's decision to grant 1 hectare of sugar beet. The grant was left on paper. We've lived to import potatoes. The same is true of other vegetables traditionally grown on our soils. A virtually halted agricultural structure. As a result, the production of tractors declined again in two years in Ukrainian enterprises, with only a quarter of the seedlings produced by 2007. The Government has ignored the social needs of the village, promised by the Ukrainian breakthrough to increase the Government's agricultural education. The provision of shelter for young agricultural professionals remained on paper. Government non-professionalism in particular has led to a hallowed increase in food prices. And we've set our own record: once again, one and a half times. We witnessed, like in a few weeks, the main consumer goods: sugar, cheese, butter, milk, bread, potatoes and other products, traveling from 30 to 50 percent. This is the highest indicator since 2005. As a result, it is becoming increasingly difficult to fit into the daily consumer basket for a private Ukrainian. A Ukrainian citizen assured the Government of Timoshenko that the bracelet was the most reliable money unit. As a result of this policy, the country has experienced the deepest devaluation among European countries. The banking problem. I will not go into the nature of this phenomenon. I will say that much of the Government's guilt lies with the fact that, in fact, the procedure for the recapitalization of banks has not been fully implemented. I recall that the law was adopted as early as October 2008. The real sector was particularly affected. As real sector lending has not been renewed. Money from the banking system is being drained by a State that is actively issuing securities at high rates. Timoshenko promised an investment paradise. However, the country has lost their confidence, and I will say below, so we are in the last place in Europe by the volume of foreign direct investment. The promises of assistance to a domestic producer remained on paper. In order to cover up the miscalculations and mask the totally unrealistic budget, the Government of Timoshenko is taking out the money earned by the labour groups. It does not fully recover the value added tax, it forces business to pay forward taxes. For the first time, the Government reimburses VAT and adopts a regulation. Not just with money, but with grain, flour, fertilizer. Where are we going next? In addition, in the midst of the crisis, the Government has systematically initiated changes to existing legislation and has also adopted regulatory instruments. In particular, attempts have been made to abolish the simplified tax system, increase the tax on vehicle owners, introduce road, agar, fair-rate charges, and increase excise duties on domestic goods several times. Including what is particularly sensitive to the consumer market for fuel and lubricants. The rules of existing legislation have been constantly amended by their decisions. For example, restrictions on the rights of taxpayers, such as the loss of previous years and the exchange rate gap. Use of modified depreciation rules, formation of tax credit. The registration of VAT payers was also cancelled and the buyer's responsibility for the seller's tax actions was shared. That is, the Government has been committed to increasing fiscal pressures and narrowing enterprise rights. And this is also one of the reasons for this crisis. Timoshenko forgot that the economy was ultimately built on the hands of the business. After suffocating the business, power overshadowed it, it destroyed the economy. Naturally, the response of economic actors to tax pressures has increased, and corruption in power has increased the tensions of the economy. This resulted in budget losses, distortion of the competitive environment, capital outflows, hidden employment, shadow lobbying and corruption. According to a joint study by the American company "." and "..", Ukraine took last place among European countries in economic freedom rating. And that's the most important thing. For two years, the power of Timoshenko is a serious decline in the standard of living of our people. Payments received from the State by the most vulnerable citizens of Ukraine do not provide the necessary minimum level of social protection. People who have reached retirement age or who are unable to work in health are particularly affected. Thus, in 2008, consumer prices rose 4 times faster than the subsistence minimum for non-working persons on whom the minimum pension depended. In 2009, Timoshenko did not fully implement the Act on the Promotion of Social Standards. It does not do so in 2010. As a result, every pensioner lacks 150 - 300 bracelets a month. As long as Kabmin is managed by such people, half the working people are destitute as a result of the loss of life, the depreciation of the national currency. The average monthly salary of Ukrainians, think of these figures, has dropped to $240 a month. For example. Russia, where we were a little behind five years ago, has an average salary of almost three times that of $700. It is also for those ministers who have allowed such a fall. In particular, the Government of Timoshenko had almost suffered from budget workers, who had been frozen by Timoshenko at the 2008 level by eliminating most of the allowances. As a result, at the end of the year the so-called budget minimum is 40 per cent lower than the actual subsistence minimum for working persons: 913 bracelets. [[545 greaves]] That is, the budgets were thrown out by the Government to the brink of survival. Over the course of the two years of the so-called salary debt, it has increased more than twice. The health problem is particularly acute. According to the World Bank, Ukraine has the highest rate of decline in Europe. The mortality rate of men in Ukraine is consistent with those of countries where GDP per capita is 5 times lower than in Ukraine. However, the Government had virtually removed itself from the medical needs of medicine. Today, medicine is limited to the professionalism and self - sacrifice of people who work in this field. However, the problem of medicine cannot be solved with great enthusiasm. Therefore, the task of the new Government is to provide tools to improve the level of health services, equipment, technology and so on. What did the Government of Timoshenko do in 2009, for example, in the area of health? A fully centralized programme of X-ray, diagnostic and other health equipment was excluded from the budget. Although Ukraine holds a sad primacy in Europe on the scale of the spread of AIDS and tuberculosis, Timoshenko reduced the cost of overcoming the epidemics by two thirds compared to 2008. Centralized measures for the treatment of diabetes mellitus in 2009 are underfunded by a third. The problem of cancer mortality is a special one, and it comes second after death from cardiovascular diseases. Regrettably, medicine is limited in the provision of quality diagnostic and oncosa treatment services. A few words about last year's flu pandemic problem. The Government had not dealt with the situation in the first place, had panicked and had decided to earn voters' sympathy for the personal unloading of the Tamiflu aircraft. While still in the spring on the epidemic situation in the world, the Government did not take preventive measures, purchase the necessary medicines and equipment, or inform the public. As a result, ordinary people were affected. And remember how much hysteria was here, in this room, about the release of what's called the flu billion. What's the result? As a result, the 600 million that have been allocated have not been partially used, and some have not been known where. In short, the results of this humanitarian policy can be illustrated by the fact that they began in the Spring of Grinjol in Eurovidia and ended in the spring of the Olympics over Vancouver. [[Applause]] They promised examples of spirituality, education, science, and left behind mines of humanitarian action that would continue to injure the living and build the memory of the fallen. What can be said of the achievements of our Olympics, if the Government, in 2009, reduced the cost of developing the logistics base of sport 60 times, 60 times, not by 5 per cent, not by 10 times, but by 10 times. [[Look at the slides.]] There was absolutely no money allocated for training fees, preparatory competitions for Olympic sports. Not even a penny could be found in the government to build sports football pitches. The Order of the President of the Year of Youth failed. Unfortunately, preparations for the Euro-2012 are also at risk. Of the nine billion that we allocated to the Government in this room in August, almost 2/3 had not been completed. As a result, the completion of many facilities is threatened: stadium and airport in Lviv, airport reconstruction and renovation, construction of road repairs and so on. Wrathful results also in the field of culture. There, all the activities of the past two years have in fact become part of the service of presidential fantasies, the financial loading of high-ranking firms. Legal nihilism in the environment has become massive. The number of violations is so high that they can nullify all efforts to shape environmental policies. It is not clear where the resources received by Ukraine under the Kyoto Protocol are going. While other countries have already received the first positive results from the implementation of anti-crisis programmes, we have not yet seen the anti-crisis programme from Timoshenko in two years. The Government did not ensure that domestic demand mechanisms were used. No production capacity is charged with domestic orders, no renewed credit to the real sector, no simplified permit system, no reduced tax pressure on the national producer, no access to credit resources through credit-sending mechanisms, no large public programmes that would allow the entire financial and production chain to be launched. Public investment has declined 2 and a half times. Regrettably, however, the cost of foreign visits, official receptions, maintenance of the administration has not been reduced or even increased. The authorities had destroyed billions of dollars from the stabilization fund, but had not initiated almost any infrastructure project that would increase demand for domestic production. Of the 22 directions for the full use of the stabilization fund, only 4 were funded. The Government has also taken more than 60 decisions on the funds of the stabfond, which have distorted the priorities defined by the Budget Act. This is a direct violation of the Constitution. A large part of such decisions did not, in fact, meet the objectives of establishing a stabilization fund. [[Article 95]] I want you to be surprised to learn that, for example, the stabilization fund was concerned about the 20th anniversary of the farmers' movement, the 360th anniversary of the Battle of Assembly, the 200th anniversary of the base of the village of Mihaylovka, to support relations with Ukrainians, to calculate for the so-called Land Dedication Register and so on and so forth. What does all this have to do with the stabilization fund? In addition, in deciding on the use of these funds, Timoshenko has grossly disregarded existing legislation, in particular the requirements for harmonization with parliamentary committees of changes in the direction of use of the stabilization fund, which are already materials for other bodies, not for this room. There were more than 20 such decisions. Very serious costs were incurred without harmonization. For example, 294 million under the budget programme are free of charge for the processing and issuance of State land ownership acts, 38 million under the budget programme “Staff” being linked to the provision of concessional services. Most of the funds allocated by Kabmin have never been seen by the recipients. There are no fewer violations in the use of the State budget reserve fund. Instead of prescribing emergency situations, the contingency fund was spent on, for example, two all-Ukrainian rural goals meetings, signing the Government Courier newspaper, establishing the State Social Contact Centre, and so on and so on. Special topic is public procurement. Each second decision of the Government relating to the use of budgetary resources contains a decree to conduct procurements for the public account under non-competitive, i.e. corruption procedures. Thus, there were prerequisites for corruption of the uncontrolled expenditure of a billion budgets. One last example: to implement the idea of the election of Timoshenko for the establishment of a pharmacy network on the basis, think! – “Severes” provides that the purchase of goods, works and services required for the smooth operation of such a network is carried out in the procurement procedure of one participant. All you can think about is the scale of this program! Just a few more words. A few years ago, we had a discussion on long-term programmes for regional development. Now, unfortunately, we're only talking about how to survive these cities and villages. The financial resources of the local budgets were seized by the Government. As a result, with its own money, local authorities were unable to buy even gas for snow and ambulance equipment earlier this year. Having given up any serious steps to combat the crisis, the Government has been selling and disposing of scarce domestic resources throughout 2009 and has entered into enormous debt without worrying about tomorrow. As a reminder, in the past year, Timoshenko increased his government debt by 112 billion bracelets. This is an unprecedented increase in public debt. At the same time, it was not ashamed to go to the unprecedented distortions of public budgetary statistics. 15.7 billion debt credited as a result of the conversion from SM was credited as the income of the General Fund of the State Budget and not adequately reflected in official debt reporting. In view of the conversion from SM in two years, the direct and guaranteed debt of the State has increased again, 3.6 times and they will be responsible for it at any time? I hope they answer. And it increased to 317 billion grevens in absolute terms, that's what they leave to the Ukrainian people and the new government! With the resources Timoshenko received, you could raise the economy, and you failed it! Borrowing was not intended to support the national Government, not to preserve and create jobs, not to protect the most vulnerable categories of the population, they were all dissolved. Loans on the internal market are growing in geometric progress. In two years, think again, as the former finance minister, it's just my heart to call that number. Government domestic debt has increased fivefold. It's only in two years! What right they had so thoughtlessly applied. Unfortunately, this year the practice of mindless loans continues. As at 28 February 2010, the General Fund of the State Budget had received $5 billion in government loans. This is 3.3 times more than, for example, in January-February last year. Large amounts of high-income loans retain high interest rates and wash out resources that the banking sector could lend to the real sector. A clear example of shortsightedness of policy, absolute uncontrolledness is the attempt to uncontrollablely provide State guarantees. During 2007, the Government of Timoshenko decided to grant State guarantees in the amount of $54.7 billion. They turned their hand to sign these State guarantees. [[I'll tell who below.]] This is much more, first of all, than the limits imposed by the Budget Act. Moreover, these decisions went far beyond the scope of the State Budget Act, which clearly established the direction on which State guarantees could be provided. To pay tribute to the President, I rarely speak to him, but here he has shown responsibility and has suspended most of his mindless decisions by decrees of more than 25 billion bracelets. The decisions taken by Timoshenko were in grave violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Budget Code and other procedures. The selection of investors, so-called, I stress, was made not on a transparent basis, but on a so-called basis, which they invented, outside competitive procedures, the contracts of billions of loans were concluded with completely unknown foreign companies. The advantage to foreign producers was unjustifiably granted at a time when domestic business lost the market. The financial situation of the business entities that received such loans was not assessed. Moreover, some of the enterprises to which such State guarantees were issued did not even exist at the time of the decision. They were created with a quick hand. For example, the so-called Regional Lviv Directorate for Flood Protection. The general principles of guarantee have been undermined when, at the time of the decision-making process, the loan has already been determined that it will be returned by the State. Thus, the Ministry of Finance was directly instructed to service and repay the loan from the budget. This is in direct contravention of the requirements of the Budget Code. Such violations have been committed in respect of loans to the so-called “Food supplies”, “Okragrolingu”, “Ukrvakcine”, “Politehmed.”, “Ucroprotez”, and so on. Regrettably, neglect of legislation has been transformed by the Government of Timoshenko into a system. For example, the Budget Code limits the use of budgetary resources due to the absence of the Budget Act. However, by Decree No. 48 of 27 January and No. 75 of 3 February, the Treasury is allowed to make payments in 2010 for debts, including capital costs. If there is an Act on raising socio-standards, which entails an increase in the minimum wage and subsistence minimum, Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 1414 provides that the level of official salaries of budget workers shall be determined on the basis of the amount that was in force in December 2009. That is, the Government deliberately adopts a regulation that violates existing legislation. Nor did the level of December 2009 freeze scholarships. Such examples are not unique. Thus, by Order No. 1261 of 21 October, the Government changed the amount of the enumeration to the regions. In particular, through part of the so-called energy subsidy and the reduction in domestic debt service costs, additional grants to territorial budgets have increased to equalize the so-called financial security. Although article 26 of the Ukrainian Act provides that such redeployment may only be effected in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues. Nevertheless, the Government, in its decision, unlawfully ordered the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to spend the funds. A strong example of an attempt by the Government to amend existing legislation was the directing of individuals to pay contributions to the Pension Fund to entrepreneurs. In violation of the 2009 Budget Act, part of VAT revenues from imported goods were credited to the State Budget special fund rather than to the general fund. Moreover, Parliament's decision. Without a decision by Parliament, these funds were directed towards compensation for NAC “Neftegaz Ukraine”. By the way, attempts to manipulate NAC oilegas Ukraine continues today. To avoid being loud, let us take the Government's decree of 24 February 2009. It's a short story. The Government is increasing its liabilities by 3 billion grevens before the bankruptcy of NAC Naftegaz by clarifying the calculations for the past year. I note that the Government decided to increase last year's commitments at the end of February 2010, in direct violation of article 57, paragraph 1, of the budget code, for which no more than 5 working days are allocated for such operations. Another question. By what means does the Government intend to pay these obligations? It turns out that the tax liability for the profit tax, which had previously been disbursed by it, had to be paid to the special fund. There will be no such methods as no money in the budget. It might be very interesting to say, unfortunately, that the Rules do not allow so much attention to all constitutional violations of that Government. In general, the Government of Timoshenko has established a sad record of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution, the laws, the depth of economic and social failure. During the two years of the work of the Government of Timoshenko, the leading international rating agencies have lowered Ukraine's credit rating seven times and we are sitting at the lowest level, so pre-full. Our State has gone to a dozen countries with the highest credit risk. Ukraine is now “before the entire planet” at risk of investing in the national economy. Could such deep imbalances have been avoided? Of course you can. Could the impact be mitigated? Of course you can. Had it not been for the tax, pension, budgetary and other reforms we had begun to bury. Had the Government of Timoshenko not escaped the impending crisis, it had developed anti-crisis measures and had immediately begun their implementation. If the Government had listened to the proposals that had been made and accepted here, including. If limited budgetary resources were not wasted, they would help to raise domestic demand and preserve jobs. Tens of thousands of such factors can be listed. And all those who vote in favour of retaining this Government will vote in favour of maintaining this corrupt policy. The policies of crisis and failure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u48	Let's sign up for a question to the reporter. A piece of Yuri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u49	I ask you, Vladimir Alexandrovich, thank you, please pass on the word to Konovaluku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Nikolai Janović, in your report, you have clearly described the general situation with regard to public finances, with those main areas of economic policy. We have witnessed for the first time, obviously that Ukraine is still living without a government budget for the current year. As a result of the results of the Court of Auditors, which the People's Deputies have become familiar with today, it has become clear that not only do we have tremendous abuses in the use of State funds but we also have serious corruption in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please tell me, this is the huge gap in budget income when 1 in 3 budget lines is not funded, how did this affect the social level of our citizens? How this affected the functioning of local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. The impact was very negative. The main condition of the crisis is the real budget. That is, the budget may have a deficit. But we need to know clearly from what sources the reliability of these sources will be financed by this deficit. The first requirement, therefore, is the realism of the budget. If the budget is realistic, this only means that all budget programmes in the budget should be funded by 100 per cent. This means that not only wages will be paid, but it means that work will be done, contractors will get the job and so on and so forth. In fact, the budget is the largest investor in its own economy. Therefore, unless the Government finances two thirds of the budget programmes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u52	Sergei Kluev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Kuzmuk, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u54	Alexander Kuzmuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u55	Dear Mikolo Janovich, I understand why your report does not contain a section on the defense of the state. Because the former president and the outgoing government did not do so at all. But I want to ask you the following. The defense problem is not old-fashioned, it's a disaster in the officer's hull. I'll explain. Seventy-six percent of all officers are healthy. Of these, 34 suffer from ulcers. 14 percent blood circulation. 10.5 nervous. This is the result of the discovery of an officer's corps outside the poverty line. The Prime Minister promised to cancel the appeal. It needs to be canceled because 60 percent of soldiers are only getting healthy. Everyone else is being treated for the course of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Aleksandr Ivanovich. I apologize to all the soldiers that the report does not really reveal the situation, the critical situation in the area of our defence complex. But in the same way, unfortunately, because of the lack of time, I was unable to reveal a number of areas: the framework of the report was quite limited. What can I say? That you and I worked together in the government in 2007. We know the needs, we know what to do, and let's do it, Alexander Ivanovich, don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u58	National Deputy Petrov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u59	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Party of the Regions of Stoyanu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u60	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u61	Dear Mikola Janović, you have really shown in your report that the government has not been involved in social policy at all, social pay. But it's amazing. In the pre-election campaign, Timoshenko claimed that it was as if the Party of Regions had not voted in favour of its Act on raising social standards. I want to remind you that in October we voted in favour of this law for all 300 deputies, including the Party of Regions. Moreover, on December 23, Timoshenko issued an illegal decree that freezes the payment of pensions and salaries at the age of 2008. I have a question for you. Please tell the President's decree, the first decree, as promised by President Yanukovic, that the government is obliged to comply with the Law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage. Tell me, what is the reason why today pensioners who are due from January 1, 695 dollars receive pensions at the 2008 level? Why they don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u62	I think that this issue should be addressed to Mrs. Timoshenko, which she is not doing, and that she is issuing illegal government orders. Of course, the new Government would submit to Parliament a budget that would take full account of the law and would, of course, finance the full costs of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u63	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u64	Mikola Janović, in July 2008 in this room, after your detailed analysis of the causes and possible consequences of the crisis that had only hit Ukraine, I remind you, the Head of the Government, under the pretense of ridicule, replied: “I listened to you, listened to you and understood nothing.” She continued to resist the threat of both the financial and banking systems and the real economy during the repeated televisions. You said today that we didn't expect the government's anti-crisis program. Meanwhile, Ukraine’s per capita GDP has grown to 128th place in the world. The state is rapidly deteriorating by business climate indicators, competitiveness ratings, and the human development index. Please tell me, if the government then listened to you, to the opposition government, to develop an anti-crisis program, could it not have been possible to avoid the severe consequences that you have been talking about today, and what have been caused by their morbid populism and pathological lying?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u65	I have already said, as I have analysed, that the main problem in the work of this Government is that it has subjected all its actions to political conditions, not economic feasibility, but political conditions. This clearly had to exacerbate the impact of the economic crisis. And that famous phrase of hers, it's a record-breaking phrase. Yeah? “Everything is gone”, there, for example. What I didn't understand was a very specific phrase. They still don't understand. They are of the category of people whose lives are not taught, they understand nothing, they will not understand anything in the future, they will be in trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u66	National Deputy Titenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u67	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Irina Gorin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u68	Who? Mountain, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u69	The attitude of power and business over the past two years has been an absolute lie. We remember those shows Timoshenko held and made promises. All of this resulted in the destruction of the simplified tax system, the introduction of transport charges, market charges, and business suffered virtually every day. We are well aware that Timoshenko has become the custodian of small and medium-sized businesses over the past two years. All ratings fell: out of 183 countries, Ukraine ranks 181st in business, under taxes. So we're at Zimbabwe and Kenya. Nikolai Janović, please tell the business to listen to the laws that led to the collection of taxes -- 11 and a half billion -- and not pay VAT.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u70	There are no such laws, it is a direct violation of existing legislation, which needs to be taken into account in general. I think they'll answer. There's no other way. We must make it clear to the business that no one has the right to do so, neither do we. Second. From this rostrum, I make it very clear that our promise to give vacations to small businesses is not a pre-election promise at all. The elections have passed and are gone. Holidays for small businesses are the only condition for this area of activity to emerge from the deep crisis it is now in. We will therefore adopt a number of laws, and we are implementing this concept of tax vacations for small businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u71	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u72	Mikola Janović, in recent times in the Supreme Council and in the Cabinet of Ministers, has seen the constitutional role of the National Bank in the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit. For many, the National Bank must become a state - owned issue of mutual assistance with unlimited printing ability. And what's most tragic for me is that these statesmen don't care what level of inflation and price the Ukrainians will live with. In recent times, tens of billions of uncovered securities have been born to the Cabinet of Ministers. Last year, MPs registered bills of about 500-600 billion dollars from the National Bank's emission register, again, regardless of inflation and price levels. Please tell us how you feel about these processes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u73	That's very negative. Here, criticizing the Government, it must also be said that, unfortunately, the National Bank did not take the most difficult position in the country and allowed the Government to place so-called securities, but in fact, unsecured papers in the internal market and, in fact, through its loans, lent this absolutely failed policy. It created the illusion that the country could make budget payments without raising the economy. That is, the budget was cut off from the real economy, and every second bracelet in the budget was debt. And here, of course, is the government's fault. But if the National Bank had demonstrated the principle enshrined in the National Bank Act and had not met such a policy, the consequences would not have been so catastrophic. That's why my position, you know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u74	National MP Schmelev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u75	You're very proud.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u76	Sergey Gordienko is transmitting the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u77	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Mikola Janović, Ukraine has just witnessed and seen many diagrams, graphs, facts about violations, specific abuses, and so forth. And your report was broken. And used even more harsh words. Do you not think that it is time to bring specific criminal responsibility for all the violations that have been committed? And whether there will be a party of regions along with all of them. The rest of the political forces are initiating this issue: the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry and the involvement of those responsible for these abuses? The time has come to do, not in words, but in practice inoculations to the authorities so that the next authorities know that such violations cannot be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. I'm going to answer the question: Why do you think they're so clingy about power in such failures? After all, any normal responsible Government, even 10 times less negative results, would bow its head, apologize, and resign. Do you have a conscience or not? I'll put myself in their shoes. If I had at least 10 times the worst, if I hadn't waited for anyone, I'd have written a statement myself. But they're clinging to power. Therefore, by clinging to power, they are blowing up the gallows of political struggle. What political struggle? You're afraid of responsibility, that's all. And the responsibility will surely come to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u79	National Deputy Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u80	Jarochuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the floor to colleague Hari Vassil Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u81	Hara Basil, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u82	Dear Nikolai Janovich! Well, first of all, thank you for a very systematic and professional report. We have seen the diagnosis of our country, which is almost already in the quarries. You have just almost answered the question that I would like to ask, but I also want to repeat it because I was asked to ask the workers of Ukraine. Look, what you've told us is, in our view and in the eyes of the common people, a life sentence. But you'll see how our ministers behave: calm and fun. Why? Because they realize that the next time their evils go unpunished. They have filled their pockets and will walk away to enjoy themselves. That's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u83	That's what I was just saying, it didn't happen right away. The fall occurs in more than one day. The decline occurs systematically: month after month, quarter after quarter. I was trying to show in my report that we have no government. If the Government had been, it would have taken immediate action and prevented such a catastrophic fall in one direction, if it had been the case. So there was no systematic control in the Government. It's at the government level. Now at the level of a specific minister. So let's say that the machine's production went down six times. What was the minister doing at that time? What efforts did he make to prevent such a catastrophic fall? Here's the question. It does not matter to me what they will be held accountable in terms of criminal law and so on, it is important for me to understand that they did not work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u84	National Deputy Popov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u85	Dear Nikolai Janović, as it were to say, in her report, Prime Minister Timoshenko has repeatedly promised local government authorities and investment projects to implement, increase the income of local budgets. In practice, everything was done exactly the opposite. All of this was dust, and there was virtually no funding. But the most unprecedented case in Ukraine's history, for the first time, I think it was in November-December last year, when local budgets were blocked by Treasury, and practically the revenues of local budgets came to finance the deficit of the State budget, which was clearly expressed by the end of the year. This problem is still not resolved by the Government. This is my estimate that this money was just stolen from the municipalities for a period of time. How do you assess this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u86	I've already talked about it. Of course, it's negative. The Government had no right to act that way. This is a direct violation of the Budget Code, our legislation. Well, how can I comment? I, too, must apologize, Alexander Pavlović, for not paying due attention to such an important direction as housing and utilities. But once again, it is true that the format of the report is simply not sufficient to analyse all aspects of our State's life.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u87	People's Deputy Skudar, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u88	Dear Nikolai Janovich! You've reported that industrial production has dropped by 22 percent, and the machinery I've dedicated my entire life to has dropped twice. The main reason for the decline is that the modernization of technical rearmaments in all sectors of the population has virtually ceased. And machinework as an intelligence today by the people and the State, not by the people, but by the State, is not required. Paralysed credit and financial system. The most important component of the competitiveness of machinery and any industry is the cost of products. And in this component, the cost of gas is very important. Please tell me, in 2005, the first thing the Government of Timoshenko did was eliminate the gas contract that was with Russia, and we got that gas for $50 per thousand. Today the price has been raised to $300 per thousand cubes. Please tell me what the motive is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u89	Please complete your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u90	Thank you. What was the Government's motive, its Prime Minister, for taking and destroying a State-friendly contract and for switching to a bonded relationship with Russia on gas supplies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u91	Dear George Markovich! But you can ask the Prime Minister that question. And I think about what we've lost in engineering, in modernization, first of all, I want to tell you and the whole room: the most expensive thing in the country is time. We've lost time. So let's think about how much time we've lost. In about two or three years, we'll go to the 2005 level. So this is five to three to eight years. We've lost at least 8 to 10 years in Timoshenko's reign for two years. The whole country has lost 10 years to modernize its industry to a new technological level, to improve the lives of our people and so on. So we've lost what's incurable, we've lost time. Now, as far as gas is concerned, there are three seconds. Of course, these gas contracts were beneficial to Ukraine. They have been revised. Why don't you ask her yourself why?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u92	Let me finish. Finish up, please, Mikolo Janovich. There's a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u93	Vladimir Mihajlovich, as a positive consequence of my report, I would like to point out that the ministers are saddened! Dear people's deputies, look at the Government's bed: the people of the ministers were bored and saddened. And that's very good. So the conscience is not lost to the end, and there is hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u94	People's MP Plojo, faction of the Party of the Regions. 11:50:5
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u95	Dear Nikolai Janovich! I would like to ask you, the question that our voters are asking today, how do you see the scheme for the verification of the outgoing government?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u96	You know, once we took cases with Viktor Fedorovic from the previous government in 2006, and we agreed, and the Prime Minister said at the first meeting of the Government: "Let's make a deal, let's not talk about the sins of our predecessors. We have forgotten and moved forward.” But now this situation, especially knowing who is going away, is going to have to make a very serious audit, especially the financial situation. So, of course, we're going to invite grammatical, good competition experts and within five to six months we're going to get a full analysis of all the decisions that have been taken, the channelling of funds and so on and so on. Then let us report here, report to the Ukrainian people and decide what to do with these conclusions. But what needs to be done is only for one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u97	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u98	I don't think anyone would be comfortable doing that anymore. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u99	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u100	Dear Nikolai Janović, I would like to ask the question that voters are asking in all regions. Last year, nearly 10 billion dollars, and at the course, over 100 billion bracelets were taken from the IMF. 25 billion grevens - value added tax debt, practically negotiable assets and a third of industry were converted into industrial cemeteries by the Government. 12 billion are taxes collected three to four months in advance, almost the government has pulled three skins out of business and from industrial enterprises, amounting to 140 billion. But to this day, the execution is empty. The question is, where's the money? Or was the budget not implemented at all last year? Or all this money, 140 billion, went to finance the failed election campaign of the Prime Minister. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u101	Well, I want to fix you up a little bit, just to be exact. Last year, the International Monetary Fund did not provide Ukraine with $10 billion. Come on, if you're right about that, 11.6 billion is three tranches. And plus 2.6 billion so-called special borrowing rights, which have certainly been converted into dollars. So 14.2 billion. This is about seven times more than the International Monetary Fund has provided Ukraine seven times more in previous years. Where they were spent would be the answer of a highly qualified organization that would conduct a public audit of budget expenditures.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u102	National MP Sphenov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u103	Please give the word Smythuhu Grigori Evkoimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u104	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u105	Dear Nikolai Janović, Grigory Smituh, Party of the Regions. I'll give you the figures that you've given me here, and I have a particular question about the State Monetary Reserve. I remember that by the end of 2007, there were over 38 billion dollars of gold in Ukraine. Tell me, please, what is your condition, if you know, as a member of the opposition government. Please tell me, is there any information on the state of the gold stock today? How will it be spent? And by what decision and who will be responsible for the fact that today, in fact, according to the information I received for my repeated requests, Stemach did not give a specific figure, but I realized that he was completely gone or that he was materially impoverished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u106	You're absolutely right. The country's currency reserves have decreased over this period of time, there is such a term, net currency reserves, that is, those belonging to the State itself. Thus, net reserves have been reduced by 3 times. I would like to emphasize once again. This government is not small, not by 2 per cent, not by 3 per cent, not by 5 per cent, but at the same time. That's how they got down three times. Today, along with IMF loans, they make up about 25 billion, and if you calculate those loans, they are at an extremely low level. Therefore, I have already answered the question of Argevita's people's MP, I believe that a large share of the responsibility for such policies lies not only with the Government, but also with the National Bank, which has allowed so recklessly to spend the funds that ensure the reliability of our national currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u107	Yes, Vladimir Landik instead of Supper, Party of Regions. Please, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Nikolai Janović, here's the information we were given yesterday in the economic situation in Ukraine, in paragraph 6, that we are doing so well in railways, and in particular in the case of the Lugani Heat Construction Plant, which has added up to 2,000 jobs. And here we are from Luhansk, and we know perfectly well that after the vacchanals cancel the competition, the factory is worth it. And by the time the Cabinet of Ministers of Yulia Timoshenko was there, it had already risen to 12,000 jobs. And for today, there's exactly 2,000 left. How is it written, and the reality is like this? What about this factory that had literally over 40 million wages a week ago? And the VAT is hanging, and they can't pay it back either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. What difference does it make, let's say, our Government, when it was working in the government, was the return to power or was the opposition, the opposition government, from this so-called government? The main difference is that any number we bring here, we are responsible for it, is absolutely true. I can't take responsibility for the whole, let's put it mildly, nonsense that's written in this file. What's more, I can't only be responsible for him, but I know there's a deliberate misreporting. You can't compare anything that's not comparable. To diagnose the disease, however severe it may be, it is necessary to call it a disease. And if we're teaching, we're not going to cure this disease. The government doesn't want to say the truth, it doesn't want to call things by its own names, it's still clinging to power. That doesn't make him any better.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u110	People's Deputy MacKeenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u112	National MP Victor Thurmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u113	Dear Nikolai Janovich! In 2007, with the Government of Yanukovic, you were the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, and we know what funding was being channeled to the coal sector. Today, in your report, you have presented an analysis of the state of affairs not only in the economy of our State, but also in the coal industry, which is now at hand. And you know very well that in 2009, there was a purely bare wage paid to miners because there was an election campaign. The Government decides to pay a full salary and not pay any taxes. You said 3.5 billion we have to go to the Pension Fund today, social insurance funds, regressors for two months, not getting paid today, broke all the funds. I'd like to ask you a question. The government, which we will be new, will take such a path, to create such “delicacies” in coffeehouses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. Of course, all the problems I have now, and those I've talked about, can't be solved in one month. I think every reasonable person understands that very well. For about six months, for the maximum of one year, all these problems, including the one you're talking about, will be solved. And the only mechanism that you can't come up with is a real absolute budget that guides the recovery economy without taking too much resources or resources from the economy, to be precise. That's why I'm familiar with these problems, I know them. Once again, they will not be resolved on one day, but within a limited period of time, they will be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u115	Alexander Steshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u116	Please give my word to my colleague, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u117	Vladimir Yavorowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u118	Dear Mikola Janovich! Vladimir Yavorowski. After listening to you, and I think you've been listening to all of Ukraine right now, obviously a lot of our fellow countrymen are taking their heads, and I'm thinking, what other planet we're moving to in a country that you've painted, I don't think there should be any living soul. You're the only one who hasn't touched what Julia Timoshenko is guilty of, which was very snowy in winter, and you're left with a lot of dirty snow. So I think, indeed, such a terrible situation and you, Mikola Janović, are known to the world as an economist who knows everything, literally, the economic science that has already governed the economy of Ukraine in fact, the finances of Ukraine, and you know it all very well, as it was: and the wages and pensions have been reduced. Tell me, please, as simple as a person: Why do you need all this? Well, why would you go to this country right now to lead this government? What will this give you? You're going to burn yourself like the most famous economist in the world!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. I'm thinking about it myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 11 minutes to ask. We'll continue after the break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. I invite Mikola Janovich Azarov to continue with questions and answers. Ivan Popescu, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Nikolai Janović, I will ask you a question about the work of the Government in the humanitarian field. How do you assess the legislation of the Ministry of Education aimed at gradually reducing the level of teaching in the mother tongue in schools with instruction in the languages of national minorities? This is, in fact, aimed at closing down the education system in the languages of national minorities, resulting in artificial assimilation, resulting in an exacerbation of inter-national relations, and most importantly, this is contrary to the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of Minorities and makes Ukraine's image worse at the international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. Well, I'm being negative. But I will not go into more detail on this subject, because I do not consider myself a specialist in this area, but generally a negative attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u124	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u125	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. Mikolo Janovich, I understand that your task today is to find as many black paints as possible to paint the situation in Ukraine. And I'm impressed by the answer to one question that you have that these objective processes that are, they didn't start today or tomorrow, it's an objective process that's been accumulated for months and years. Since the last seven years, your team has ruled for three years. And the question of increasing external borrowing is that without investment, without borrowing, without lending, the economic issues will not be resolved today. What is your assessment of the government's cooperation with the IMF, and are you planning to take a tranche of loan in the future, thereby increasing Ukraine's external debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u126	Thank you for asking. But first of all, I do not agree with you that our task is as negative as possible in the work of the Government. You don't have to look for him. This negative lies on the surface, it's visible and visible to everyone. But a true and reliable analysis is needed, first of all, in order to know how to get out of this situation. So I had a very balanced analysis, I stress, very balanced, I didn't push the situation at all, I gave it what it was. And literally two words in my mind. In 2004, and in 2007, we left the country to our recovery. That's all that matters. In 2004, the country had a GDP growth rate of 12.5 per cent, the highest in Europe at that time. In 2007, the country had 7.6 per cent GDP growth rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u127	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u128	This indicates that the Government's activities have stimulated business and work effectively, because the main integrated performance indicators of the Government are the growth of gross domestic product. That's why I can't agree with you that problems have accumulated. Yes, they have accumulated, but if they have not made up their minds or made the wrong decision, then the situation has worsened.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u130	Now, about the IMF loan. I am a supporter of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. We've been working with him since I was 92, Ukraine, if memory doesn't change. And it's pretty positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Leo Biruk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u132	Dear reporter! I have one brief question for you, you're always saying there's no anti-crisis program for today's government. Can you please say, three months from now, after six months, you can publish your own anti-crisis program? Now, I'd like to give the floor to the deputy of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, take advantage of your question, for there is no question, but you have formulated it. Either continue, or Azarov will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u134	The distinguished people's deputies, the budget and the programme are the two documents that are due, the budget is the first month of work of the new Government and the programme is mandatory for 2 months. Without a budget and without a programme, there is no way out of the most serious economic crisis we now have in Ukraine. Because the programme is a systematic set of crisis response measures, which I systematically, once again, have struck the whole country. There is no industry where we have a deep fall, I emphasize none. Which means the program should be systemic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u135	Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u136	Dear reporter! I have a question for you. Please record it. The simple question is: Where is your conscience? And who wrote to you this bag of fleas, this sack of garbage, that you report for more than an hour? There is neither defence nor national security nor international cooperation. And for an hour you'll throw dirt on your colleagues, your predecessors and your followers. You're talking about social standards. I will remind you, as you quoted from that rostrum, in the original language: “Let all of you go. We will not spend the budget on cephire pensioners.” And today you're in line with that holy guardian of the pensioners. You left the government of Tymoshenko 33 billion -- a black hole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u137	Please finish your question. And yes, no screaming.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u138	Your government has been the most free government in all of Ukraine's history. And today, what can you suggest when you go to the government -- the "arzaurland", the total tax empire of the off-river, that slow-rending treasury? Where's yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u139	Aren't you ashamed to ferment like this? To be honest, I did not expect such an honest, honest question by the age of a popular MP. Say, please, the government that's going to fail minus 15 percent of GDP is skilled, and the government that's going to increase 12.5 percent is free? Is that your logic? And we're against that logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u140	National Deputy Soloshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u141	Let's go, I'll explain. I said, "Let's go" not all, but I meant absolutely specific people. And if you need it, I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u142	National Deputy Soloshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u143	Dear Nikolai Janovich! In your report, you spoke of a significant decline in investments in Ukraine. Please tell me, in your opinion, what must be done first, the view as professional in order to restore investors' confidence in Ukraine? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u144	Thank you. This is a delicate work in which there is no room for error for the Government. Firstly, once again, I repeat, a realistic budget, all external and internal investors must understand: the State does not expect to waste thoughtlessly, it will live by means. It's the strongest signal. Second. All relationships must go to the real sector. Once such a policy has been implemented consistently for at least one year, we will begin to restore our credit ratings. And if we do it for 2-3 years, we'll go to investment ratings. And then, of course, there's a lot to do. I'm just saying the main, main system-lighting things. And there's a lot to be done, and it's going to be written in that program that the BUTT MP has already been worried about, and we're worried about before. But our task is above all what I have said and to create a favourable investment climate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u145	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u146	Please give the word to your colleague, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u147	People's MP, Tsarsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u148	Two brief questions and the first, how can we assess the situation today with the State of the State and whether the situation of its technical default be confirmed this time. And the second. The question, the system that was introduced for the recapitalization and refinancing of the banking sector, the banking crisis, whether it was an affair and how much money was taken from investors and the Ukrainian budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u149	I will only say one thing about the State: the work was unprofessional, it was carried out in violation of existing budgetary legislation, and perhaps everything is being exhausted. With regard to the recapitalization of banks. Bank recapitalization by the Government was not timely when crises had already affected the banking system. It was not transparent, not transparent and, of course, unable to produce positive results. As far as what you've been talking about is the subject matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Yes, please finish, Mikolo Yanovich. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u151	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the time spent on the question is exhausted, please sit down, Mikola Janović. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna is invited to the presentation. In 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u153	Dear compatriots! Dear national MPs, ministers! Today is such a special day for the government -- we're looking at the resignation of the government today, and I certainly want to stress once again that this is being considered today at my request. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because I want to see clear clarity about how the political powers in Parliament are being distributed today, who is taking responsibility for the country's life, and I think that this vote is going to be a very clear fact, who is joining the Janukovich coalition, who is cooperating with Yanukovic, and who is going to be completely and completely responsible for his policies. That is why this moment of truth is vital for the country today. Because there's no gray. They want to create cheese in Ukraine. There's black and white. There is a struggle for Ukraine, for its independence, for strengthening its sovereignty, for strengthening all its functions, for the happiness and well-being of the people, and there is, on the other hand, anti-Ukrainian politics, which is accompanied by great mega-corruption. And I want to say right now that the government that is present in the bed today is ready to keep a clear answer. And you know, in such difficult times, as Prime Minister, I mention those stages of government that I've been through. And when I look back a little bit, I realize that from the year 2000 on, and the year 2000 on, this is exactly when I first came as vice-premier into the government, I went to a government where everything was destroyed: a fuel-energy complex, years of debt to energy, atoms, miners, pensions, wages. After two hours, three in the country was lit. And then I remember very well how I, as Prime Minister, protected the country from an artificial crisis created by that regime, protected and produced. All salaries and pensions were paid. There was a decommissioned barter from the fuel-energy complex, all the corruption models and schematics were completely removed, and we put the fuel-energy complex clearly on our feet, and as a result, the country. And at that time, fate was so bad that I ended up in government and protecting the country. Today, the same situation. Our government team, our parliamentary team, has been in the midst of a global crisis at the head of government and has generally done everything in its power to protect the government. And I think the main bottom line for the management of our team is that at a time when the world crisis broke the world, every country collapsed. We have protected Ukraine from the financial collapse, from the destruction of key sectors, we have protected Ukraine from the complete collapse of the financial and economic sector. [[Applause]] And at the same time, we've kept social standards, even though most of the countries in the world have cut them down. And we also paid these social standards very clearly. I think you couldn't help but notice that pensions, wages, social pay, everything that the country was obliged to pay to people -- paid an hour an hour. I think you couldn't help but notice that it was during the times of our government's work in crisis that we for the first time fundamentally strengthened the energy independence of the state. We paid for natural gas hour after hour, month after month, and often we did not allow our country to be humiliated, put it in an awkward state. I think it was all happening in your eyes. And the main conclusion that I want to draw from past governance and from today is that we have preserved and strengthened the independence of our state, we have preserved and strengthened its work and its service to people, we have preserved and multiplied everything that is our national identity, we have strengthened everything that is the essence of life and the work of our nation. And that's why I think we can draw that conclusion from our management at this difficult time of crisis. I am convinced that even every person in the country has seen that the crisis has been overcome by the government itself. All the other political powers -- the political authorities, the political parties, the faction, and also the state institutions -- have blocked the government's work and made it better in the country, worse. But this did not prevent us from protecting the country. And today, when we are again in a rather difficult situation. The challenge is that Janukovic, who came to power with his team, has been practicing anti - Ukrainian politics since the first days of his life and rule. And these are not his statements, these are actions and facts. And anyone who legalizes this work with his own voices today will sanctify it and support it, will bear the responsibility for every step he takes against Ukraine. And so I don't want to speak in general right now, I just want to say a few examples that I want colleagues sitting in Parliament to hear right now. Only the last three to four days is not even a week, there have been two events. For the first time, led by Yanukovic, the Attorney General and the Ukrainian Security Service captured what was returned to the state by our government, a Titanic gazelle. I now have a file containing the actions and letters of the BSS, the Attorney General’s Office, which required the State Holding Fund to take into the Titanic field and to hand over Januković to Mr. Firtasch. And I can tell you that we, as a country, occupy 3rd place in the world in the form of wi-bodecking and titanium processing. For us it is a strategy, for us it is the power of Ukraine in the world. And when the raider's system of usurping strategic state property began for the last three days, it speaks of real politics. In addition, during the last three days, essentially because of decisions and letters, the U.S. Attorney-General's and the U.S. Attorney's Office's regulations and actions, the State has been denied the strategic nature of the natural gas "Sakhalinski" and taken to NAK "Naftogazu" and transferred to the nearest environment of Janukovic. These are the facts, the facts of the destruction of our energy independence, our strategic property. And I think as a government we're going to hand these facts over to the National Anti-Corruption Committee. Here's the policy, here's the real deal. And that's why everything else is just banal, empty words that are spoken from Yanukovich's mouth and his immediate surroundings today. And so, dear friends, I think right now we need to say that from this very person, from Mr. Yanukovich, there is a threat. First. The weakening of the independence of our nation. Second, there is a direct threat to the territorial integrity of our country. The direct threat of democracy, freedom of speech and the strategic ownership of our state. And that is why I would like us to realize today that there is protection against such a policy in Ukraine, and protection is a united democratic team that, I believe, will be created in this Parliament and that will protect Ukraine every day of its life. And I can say that if a government resignation is voted today, at the same time our government will leave its cabinets, at the same moment our political power will move into opposition and will be clearly opposed to forming a united democratic team, will do everything to make such actions that I have just said and cited examples of how impossible they will be in our country. I want everyone who hears me to know right now that we're going to protect Ukraine from this new disaster that's come, we're going to protect it safely. And if Janukovic thinks he'll be playing golf and tennis in a week, and his environment will take care of the state's strategic property, then I can say that today his golf and tennis are over. And he'll report every day to the country, before the opposition, every day we'll keep our hands on the pulse. [[Applause]] And so today, I want us, if we move into opposition, to make a commitment to a state that is sacred to us: the independence of our nation, our national identity, for us is a great protection of our Ukrainian national language, our culture, our honest, true history, the protection of the territorial integrity of our nation, and the protection of strategic objects of the rule of state, which is both part and basis of our independence. I want us to take on this commitment and protect Ukraine, protect every human being, because our team has lived, lives, and lives only one thing: Ukraine is above all else. And that's how our policy will be shaped. [[Applause]] Now, I think Parliament is about to go to the vote. Voting is essentially going to be the moment of truth, the moment of determination, the moment of determining the position of each national MP, of each faction: with Ukraine or against Ukraine, on the side of the forces that see Ukraine as profit. I will be the team I lead where Ukraine needs protection and assistance. And so when I finish my short speech, I know there's no use explaining anything more and answering questions. Because everyone in this room has already been identified, and no answers to any questions will convince anyone. And so you don't have to spend, in the direct context of that word, the expensive time of the people's deputies, but you just have to figure out and put questions to the vote. Thank you for your attention! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! I now invite the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonek Valentino Kostinović. Dear colleagues! Calm down, please! Dear colleagues! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u155	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Information on the implementation of the State budget of Ukraine, approved by the College of the Court of Auditors, is given to you. In view of the meagre rule, I will focus only on node issues of the budget policy of the past year. First. Ukraine's State budget had not been implemented by any of the planned indicators in 2009 and had not been implemented as a law. Second. The root cause of this situation is, in our view, a completely inadequate assessment by the Government of the impact of the global financial crisis on the country's financial and economic situation. Here's a statement: "We will not let him on the threshold until all the economic failures in the world crisis have been eliminated!" The misunderstanding that the global financial crisis is not the root cause of the deep recession in the country's economy, but that the detonator, which has exposed our internal problems, has catalysed the transformation of the local internal financial crisis into a systemic one. As a result, the Government planned to increase the economy in 2004 by 0.4 per cent. Real gross domestic product fell to 15 per cent. As a result of economic activity, 171 billion grevens were planned for tax, and almost 32 billion were lost. The deficit in the balance of payments over the past year has increased more than 4 times over the previous year. The annual plan lacks the income of more than 30 billion bracelets, almost 12 per cent. This is with 29 billion grevens being accounted for by the so-called subjective factor. These are special rights, borrowing and reimbursement of VAT, and subscription of taxes and taxes. Fourth. The Government has not provided an adequate legal and regulatory solution to the budget implementation. More than 140 government decisions do not comply with the Constitution, the Budget Code. As a result, more than half of the budget was allocated on a manual basis, rather than by law. The resources of the Stabilization Fund have become a source of macroeconomic stability and an additional source of current expenditures, which are entirely dependent on the Prime Minister's single decision. The objective of the fund has not been achieved. Fifth. It is unprecedented that funds from treasury accounts have been raised for expenses not provided for in the budget schedule, resulting in an entirely new problem: the lack of liquidity of the State Treasury. This year, not only has this problem not been solved, but it has grown worse. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly drawn the Government's attention to the deficit in the Pension Fund's budget. Regrettably, the Government had found no other solution than the virtually unlimited lending of the Pension Fund through a single treasury. Thus, during 2009, unrefunded loans received from the State Treasury Pension Fund amounted to more than 22 billion grevens. In such a situation, the Pension Fund from a self-governanced, self-sustaining organization is transformed into a state fund fully dependent on the State budget. Sixth. Government debt increased by 1.6 times at the end of the year to 2.6 billion. At 212 billion grevens, 19 billion grevens exceed the limits of the approved laws. And the last. These figures and conclusions are not the product of today's day, but a summary of the results carried out by the auditors of the Court of Auditors, the expert and independent audits that we regularly informed the Government and the Prime Minister during the year, formally sending 104 findings and specific proposals to them. And despite the law, the answer is silence. Laws don't work in the country, there are no laws. There are chiefs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! I'd like you to sign up for the factions and then for the committees. We've got 30 minutes. It's recorded in factions. From the committees, please. Yes, please give me the names of the national deputies. The factions are Oleg Zarubinski. The next one will be the People's Deputy Beales. And then they're coming from the committees, and they're already written after that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u157	Honorable colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media, respected citizens! The critical state of the Ukrainian economy, the state-of-the-art financial situation at the border of the technical de-folt, the exacerbation of social problems require politicians and the power of rapid high-professional response and decisively consolidated action. On the other hand, it is obvious that we are moving pre-election aggression into our everyday lives. The continued identification of relations by the contestants took the form of an open war. Applying in real life the destructive formula “elections have ended – war has begun” can satisfy personal ambitions and corporate interests. But for the economy, this is the way to collapse, to the social self-esteem of people, even more profoundly its deterioration for politics, to bring the situation to complete absurdity, and for the country, this is a devastating blow. All of us must realize that war must be stopped immediately. Otherwise, it is important to make it clear who is announcing mobilization and who is registered as a volunteer for this war. Negative processes are exacerbated by the actual absence of a coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Many facts only confirm that the government and the Prime Minister do not have sufficient support for parliamentarians and do not rely on their proposals and activities for the majority of the Supreme Council. This directly deprives us of the possibility of making legitimate decisions. Of the nearly 2,000 decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, only 130 were voted by the coalition. And during today's current session, none. The absence of support for the current Prime Minister of most deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes it impossible to make decisions, even human resources decisions. There are no long - term ministers in the government — finance, transportation, and communication, internal affairs. For months and even years, the constitutional positions of the Heads of the Foundation of Holding, the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Committee on Television and Radio Affairs remain vacant. And on this background, the candidate who, as a result of the presidential election, has sat second place publicly declares that he does not recognize the President. What's next? The ultimate destruction of the government mechanism. We're assuming that a politician may not recognize the current president. What, though, will lead to his failure to recognize him as prime minister? We are firmly opposed to pushing a conscious or unconscious country into the abyss. And we're not going to do anyone's desire to be a backdrop to sanctify war. Having nothing to do with the formation of the government, repeatedly, pointing to the low qualifications of individual cabinet members, we did everything in our power.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u158	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u159	Nevertheless, we did everything we could to ensure that he was working. However, we do not gather to be part of hostilities in peacetime. What harms our country and our people is foreign to us. Given this faction, Block of Lithuania will continue to stand for an open constructive position in the interests of the people defined by our programming principles. You strongly urge everyone to recognize the need for an immediate cessation of the game in the state and games with the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u160	People's Deputy Beales. He has the right to speak from the Alla Alexandrovska faction. The next is representative Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u161	Respectable colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens and members of the Government! After the report of Azarov, I believe that the prosecutor must enter this room. We already have every reason to blame the Government for its misconduct. In particular, I bring you the following facts. The draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 introduced by the Government for consideration by the Supreme Council could not be adopted by definition, as it was drafted on the basis of the non-existent Budget Code. As a result, the entire budget process in Ukraine was brought back to chaos. The implementation of the budget was also chaotic in many parameters of volunteerism. The inadequate work of the Government is evidenced by the systematic and practically continuous budget cuts from some programmes to others, and very often this has occurred in violation of the State Budget Act without agreement with the Committee on Budgets. Should it be recalled that the Government has not been able to fully finance many of the social programmes provided for by the laws of Ukraine? This applies to both Chernobyl and military pensioners, children of war and many others. A major resonance in society led to an illegal decree by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, together with the Ukrainian Pension Fund, that the average wage base should be underpaid and recalculated in 2009. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners, in a direct sense, have been robbed by this illegal decision of the Government and have the right to defend themselves before the courts. What was behind the Government's promises that the necessary measures should be free of charge for the formulation of the right of citizens to land? We know that this affair is almost over. It is dangerous that the Government has seen the measures taken to tighten the belts of the people from the crisis. Practically frozen wages, attempts were made to limit the right to a pension to those pensioners who were still working. A cynical approach to rural income is an initiative to change the Personal Agriculture Act, resulting in a step towards taxing the income of peasants who do not receive from their parcels. And what a wave of outrage in society has been caused by the Prime Minister's public statements in support of the extremely radical nationalist forces. What is the Government's decision to appoint a personal pension of 10,000 grevens to the son of Fascist Suhevich? The ban on speaking Russian in Ukrainian schools? Can the conduct of an official be considered normal here today in the Supreme Council Hall, which has not actually been reported and has not responded to questions and has actually dropped the responsibility? Is that how a high-ranking official should do it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u162	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u163	As everyone knows, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. This has a direct bearing on the activities of the Government of Timoshenko. For inadequate, unprofessional, irresponsible treatment of his or her responsibilities, that Government should be retired.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u164	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. And the right to speak is passed on to him from the committee by Vladimir Yavorowski, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u165	Dear voters, today is likely to end the country’s Trojan war. A trojan horse now stands ready, with a group of desperate brave men in its belly who are afraid of everything but who well know that they are not in danger. Because all we have to do is press the cuffs on the signal, and then line up in line for such simple and banal dividends. The irony of these words has a clear basis. For two years and three months, the work of the government of Julia Timoshenko was similar to the constant and wild siege of Troy, both in this room and in the Bank and in the command. This total blocking of the work of the Prime Minister himself has not been the case in the history of an independent Ukraine. Neither does world history know such analogs. As the classic said, “There were other times, but there were no such cynical ones.” Cynicism is that in the fight against Timoshenko, instigators fought against Ukraine. Both the guilt and the misery of Julia Timoshenko was only that too close to the presidential race had become the Prime Minister, and for many years the charismatic personality has been unalterable. All other charges against the wicked one. The government was devastated and continuously accused of falling GDP, especially industrial production, which I recall began under the powerful influence of the world crisis. But if you dig a little deeper, everyone will immediately shut up, because the truth is that the biggest decline in production took place in those large enterprises where owners represent one political power. Have they tried to reform their businesses, have they been undergoing structural reconstruction or technical resupply, or have they tried to reduce energy consumption and self - worth? The question is rhetorical. But in these incredible conditions, it was the government of Timoshenko that helped both miners, metallurgists, builders, miners, and chemists, by lowering prices for gas, coke, shipping tariffs. Did it work? Of course, they would not have asked the owners of these companies to continue the relevant memorandum. This cost the budget dearly, but it would have cost even more if these companies had stopped. Why don't you guys shut up, because this business of yours is saved like hundreds of thousands of jobs saved? The government has been relentlessly accused of lack of real lending to the economy. The severe deficit in credit costs, their incredible traffic is true, but the truth is that Timoshenko had no relation to the National Bank in accordance with the Constitution and the law. And even when you took the initiative to save the investor economy, you didn't support it, you blocked it, including the inevitable replacement of the central bank's leadership. As a result, where did the first tens of billions of emissions go? Do you not recall what broke the national currency and what fed banks exported the currency abroad? Is it Timoshenko’s fault for external debt? Not evil, gentlemen, the government's debt is accommodating to other countries. And corporate, i.e. private banks and privatized enterprises are large. Whose banks and whose businesses? Even schoolchildren know the answer. Let's add that these debts are usually the same banks' money and the same businesses that were brought into Ukraine from offshore zones. So the conversations for these bouts of commitment, as we understand it, will quickly end. Individually on charges of salary, pensions, scholarships, social benefits. I'll say it's obvious that in these incredible difficulties, in two years, only the Pension Fund has grown up one and a half times. And that is when, in a rich and suffocating Europe, they were determined to lower or freeze the social network. The government has given us no delays in payments or debts. Everything was day after day. There is a debt in the private manufacturing sector. Today, Your Honor, how does absolute authority allow you to ask your own owners of factories, steamboats, airplanes, “Where are the firewoods? ” — debt. By the way, ask them why they do not comply with your Social Standard Law, for no one has changed the tariff network. And doesn't anyone know that metal, fertilizer is sold at world prices, and the wages of our workers are 8-10 times lower than that of their European colleagues. Why? And you continue the old song about the sins of Timoshenko, who has not raised social standards! But I picked it up, but within the limits of the possibility, without a printing press. I'd have raised more if you'd raised wages on your businesses, because everyone knows that without that pension, they can't actually grow up. A few words about the natives. That they did not prophesy: both defult, and famine, and mass rebellion, and collapse is Armageddon, in one word. Nothing happened, everything worked out exactly the opposite. And in this there is a huge and historical merit both to the government and to the Prime Minister himself, for the worst is behind. Today, if there is a government replacement, we pass on a peaceful country in which production has been increasing for months, in the homesteads of coal, gas, bread, and bread. Some politicians are said to begin with the “still” habit. Just for a while. But we're going to eat -- we're going to see, because it's going to be a whole different story. Thank you for listening and for hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u166	From the faction of the Party of the Regions is Georgi Markovich Skudar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u167	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, for the first time in place of the Government, the opposition has described the true situation in our economy and in our finances. And these figures are absolutely true, because none of the deputies, either the Prime Minister or the members of the Government, has spoken out of the rostrum or denied a single figure. Government efforts to explain industrial collapse solely through the impact of the world economic crisis are at least unprofessional and insolvent. It is enough to look at our neighbours — Russia, Belarus, Poland — to understand the full depth of the free, adventurous, populist economic policy pursued by the Government of Timoshenko for two years. Having the best economic growth rates in Eastern Europe in 2003-2004, in 2006-2007, with the greatest industrial capacity, a sufficient resource base, qualified personnel, Ukraine has managed infamously to drop to the last places in social and economic development ratings, to become a symbol of economic and social infirmity. According to Goskomstat, the decline in industrial production in 2009 was more than 20 per cent and the construction of machinery was more than 50 per cent. The reason for this situation is not so much the impact of the crisis as the incompetence and inadequacy of the members of the Government under the leadership of Timoshenko. Tax pressure, advances and overpayments on taxes and charges have increased threefold over the past two years. The income tax for most enterprises has been suspended for several months. In parallel with tax terror, the Government of Timoshenko seized working capital from large exporting producers by returning VAT. The debt to VAT has increased more than twice, amounting to more than 20 billion bracelets. Due to immeasurable industrial defeats, technical rearmaments, modernization have virtually ceased. Our production is becoming uncompetitive. In cash, officials are cynically accusing industrialists of inefficient work. It is a mockery of those who earn money and currency for the country, including feeding the State budget. Kabmin Timoshenko, despite the billions of government money flows to the banks, did not ensure the resumption of credit to the economy. Where were not only the budget money used, but also 100 billion euro of IMF's loans and who suffered from refinancing transactions? Obviously, it was only for officials who distributed financial resources. The economic advantage is zero. Currently, neither Ukrainian banks nor foreign credit organizations are lending. Thus, Timoshenko has done everything to prevent industry from recovering from the effects of the crisis. In addition to the above factors, most enterprises have lost their competitiveness due to excessively expensive energy carriers. I think in time and here, in the hall, the people will know by what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u168	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u169	With Russia, who got $50, and now $300 for a thousand cubes. Deputies! If we do not get rid of populism and demagogicism, the economic collapse of the State is inevitable. I am convinced that the consolidation of the healthy forces of Parliament and the resignation of the Government of Timoshenko will move from destruction to socio-economic development of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u170	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's not just speaking out of our faction, because, frankly, the faction has long been destroyed and there is no consolidated solution to this question and there will be no. I can assume that most of the members of our faction will not vote in favour of resignation, and those who vote will see the names. For me, I will not vote in favour of resigning this government. I could say from a dozen or more positions for which today’s government could be thanked. I could name hundreds of positions for which this government could be criticized. But right now, I think I need to understand one simple thing: this meeting doesn't make any sense to me if you think about it in terms of morality and responsibility. I'm convinced that if the six exitpoles were exposed to the result on the day of the vote, the government would have done morally if they had resigned immediately, said so. And it would not have been lost at that time. But it happened the way it happened. And obviously the government decided to go through the whole procedure. I suppose he'll be retired today. But let's talk about something else. I do not see much joy in the condition of the winners, and there are obvious reasons for this. We understand what country it is and what state it is in. I wish the winners hadn't made the same mistakes. Because right now in the towers, when we talk about the future composition of the coalition, about future ministers or vice-premiers, please confirm that there is no conversation about what strategy a government official will be working with. Just like it was when the government of Tymoshenko-Jushchenko was formed. Because it's not just Timoshenko's government, it's government and Yushchenka's. He used a pencil to back everyone up there. And so if we continue to form a new state of government, we're not going to step on it, we're going to jump on the same rakes one more time, and then there's going to be another similar meeting. I want to warn you that the first step that was taken after the victory was to cancel the local elections. It's completely unconstitutional, everyone understands that. This was pointed out by the Constitutional Court when a decision was taken on Ternopolis. Now I feel, there are moods to form a coalition unconstitutionally. I want to warn you, don't do this. If it doesn't work out to form a coalition within the Constitution, honestly and morally, let's go to the polls. I think that would be the right thing to do. The country's been through a lot for three months. But then the people who sit here will have the moral right then to form the governing bodies in accordance with the Constitution and not to violate it further. And the last. I would like to emphasize once again what I said on the Conciliation Council, and we cannot leave the issue of local elections unanswered. We have to make this decision. Tens of millions of our citizens have lost their right to choose local authority. And second, we can't go on without an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u172	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u173	Kiev’s question cannot be left unanswered. What is being done in Kiev is now that virtually every meeting of the tens of hectares of the most expensive land is decomposing. The faction leaders on the Conciliation Council remain silent for some reason. Again, the two - round elections in Kiev were scheduled for a week. I'd like to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u174	Viacheslav Kirilenko instead of Paris, faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Rybek will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u175	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! You know that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” is not part of the Butt Coalition long ago. And that's not why we have principles of pretention for the actions and activities of the Prime Minister. There's a thousand of these claims, there's no point in counting them. But the main thing is that it was unacceptable for us and is unacceptable in the activities of an active office. First. Cable gas agreements signed in Moscow The other one. There is no complete lack of will for economic reform. Third. Total lack of coalition and collegiality in the Cabinet of Ministers. Four. Controversial personnel policy. And the fifth. The constant tendency towards separate agreements between Block Timoshenko and Prime Minister personally with the Party of Regions and Victor Yanukovic himself. So when we're told that being with Timoshenko is about being with Ukraine, we don't really agree. Because we don't consider the Ukrainian patriotic vote to be the release of the patriotic minister of Ogryzko who was made by the Communists, the Party of Regions and the Block of Timoshenko. We do not think that being with Ukraine is a vote in favour of the new State Service Act, in which Ukrainian language is defeated in its rights, and we see much more. At the same time, we're not ready to change our necks -- nice, there's no point in that. We are not prepared to replace the cable gas agreements with the building of the Ukrainian gas transport system in Moscow, which may happen, or at least its beginning, on March 5th during the official visit of the new President to Moscow. We're not ready to replace at least the qualms, but yet Euro-Atlantic integration into the primary non-block status with the permanent preservation of the Russian Black Sea fleet base in Ukraine. We are not prepared to replace sometimes opposition, even in this government, with a new educational reform that is completely constricted. And we are absolutely not ready to replace the current state status of the Ukrainian language with the political language revision proposed by both the new president and the Party of the Regions. At least so far they have not made statements to dissabove such a position. Hence the conclusion. If you vote in favour of retirement, you have to vote in favour of the resignation of those who create a new coalition and who are willing to change their necks. Who knows the course of the new government, who knows the personal composition of the new government, who knows the first decisions of the new government, who knows what they will do in the first place – looking at all Ukrainian values or economic reforms – let them vote for the resignation of the government. And we will stand in defense of Ukrainian national values. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u176	Ryabek's national deputy hands over the right to speak to Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u177	Honorable National MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, Ukraine once again found itself at a historic crossroads. There is a real threat to the reversal and destruction of the achievements of Ukraine’s national sovereignty and social development. Every citizen today needs to understand the dangers we face. The new political power, which has come to power, does not propose any national development strategy, socio-economic development programmes, but is already proposing a democratic coalition, proposing to postpone the “new” national elections to local councils, proposing steps that are anti-constitutional and criminal. As far as Timoshenko's government is concerned, I am convinced that by gathering all former presidents, speakers and political leaders into one office in a global financial crisis, they would not have been able to hold Ukraine in the same way that this government has held, this heroic government, against which all political forces have taken the stand, organized sabotage, subversives, shoved into the government of "goats" from all sides. Therefore, the Ukrainian people gave the correct assessment of Timoshenko, giving more than 45 percent of the votes, 17 areas in Ukraine supported Timoshenko’s candidacy. And I think this assessment will remain in history, and in Ukraine's history, the government of Timoshenko will remain the most effective anti-crisis government. And 11.5 million citizens and their families, supporters demand from us, from the democratic coalition, that all patriots of Ukraine do their utmost to ensure that Ukraine’s achievements during its years of independence are not put under the knife and are not put on hold by those who are in power, accusing the government of holding on to power. I think these new rulers won't be ruling for long. And I urge all Ukrainian citizens to stand up for the achievements of Ukrainian democracy, Ukrainian independence, statehood, in the name of future generations of our children and grandchildren. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u178	Vladimir Philenko passes on the right to speak to Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u179	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, long - suffering, wise Ukrainian people! For the first time in 19 years, it was this government, Timoshenko, that has been cooperating with local self - government for all of Ukraine’s citizens for two years. On July 29, 2009, the concept of reforming local self - government was approved. The Cabinet has formed a Council for Regional Development and Local Self - Government. Established by the Council of Rural, Rural Heads at Kabmin With the participation of the Association of Ukrainian Cities, more than 50 legal acts have been developed for the benefit of local self-government. The government initiated the National Congress of Local Self - Government, with the goal of further integration of this organization into the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities at the Council of Europe. This initiative was signed by the Association of Ukrainian Cities, the All - Ukrainian Association of Rural, Rural Councils, and the Ukrainian Association of Local and Regional Authorities. It was this government under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Timoshenko that held systematic public meetings with representatives of local self-government for the first time in years. None of the former prime ministers, apart from Timoshenko, dared to take up the centralization of power, of which so often and so often politicians speak, especially during the election races. And Tymoshenko did it. With the understanding of public policy, she supported the initiative of local self - government. And the government has developed a new edition of the Budget Code, which has already been scheduled to leave 100 percent of tax dollars for land, for ecology, some licenses for leases in places since this year. It was planned to significantly expand the list of expenditure taken into account in determining the amount of local budgets, transfers, including out-of-school education, rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities, and shelters. As soon as the world economic crisis struck, the government of Timoshenko did not leave citizens alone, understanding the importance of the government’s industries, the decision was made to support the construction, mortgage, and free issue of certificates. The government responded quickly to technological situations. He found funds to raise scholarships, return savings, and took into account the benefits of years for teaching, methodical, and employees. All of this is also a major support for local government self - rule. To date, the government has allocated 107 percent of the funds to the Pension Fund. So in this month too, citizens receive early pensions, scholarships, government budgets. What can you protest from what I have said? What claim to government? Only that he is Ukrainian and acts in the interests of the Ukrainian people?Oh, my God! What did you do? Local elections were called off. You're systematically violating the first step.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u180	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u181	You're violating the Constitution, the law is in force, and now you're going to vote to resign the government without a draft resolution. I want to thank the government for the professional performance of my duties and the national government policy for the interests of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u182	Michael Papiew’s right to speak is transmitted by Jaroslav Suhi, who is the last to speak. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u183	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For starters, I want to quote one quote. "Our government aims to force the rich to give up their profits. We're going to force the owners of large businesses to tighten their belts. We're going to bring back the people's sense of justice. Those who do not believe in justice will understand that it does exist. And our fight for justice will not be in vain." Those who think I'm quoting Julia Timoshenko's pre-election speech are wrong. This is the speech by Prime Minister Benito Mussolini of Italy on December 19, 1922. This began with Italian fascism. One definition of fascism is absolute populism, which is characterized, not by trying to solve the acute problems of modern times, but by trying to appoint enemies. For the fascists, Communists and liberals were enemies. For the Nazis, they're Jews. Yulia’s government has appointed Timoshenko as enemies to all who do not share the views of BUT. A party of regions, semi-myphic oligarchs, "Block of Lithuania", President Yushchenk's Secretariat, governors, communists, our Ukrainians, Russia, Europe, America, all of them, if you believe the statements made by the representatives of BUT, are guilty of the government's failure. Julia Timoshenko always claimed that she had no strategy for losing. She needed only victory in the presidential campaign, for it is known that the winners are not judged. That's why the last year's giant executive power machine has been transformed into the only election headquarters of Yulia Timoshenko, and the Prime Minister's actions in the social sphere have been transformed into an endless state-run pyar action. Julia Timoshenko wanted to act in revolutionary ways. There was neither reform nor profit. Total ruin, destruction, and economic terror in the middle class. Tymoshenko's volunteerism has put Ukraine in last place in socio-economic performance. Today we are further away from Europe than we were 10-20 years ago. That is the bitter truth, recognized, by the way, by the whole world, except for the natural Julia Timoshenko. So where are we going? At the level of corruption of the state apparatus, to Latin America, a 50-60-year pattern last century. By social standards, Somalia. At inflation level, to Zimbabwe. The honourable national deputies, the facts cited, are the verdict of the Ukrainian people of today's government. Democracy foresees that in such a case, the discredited authorities are going into opposition and hard work, because the position is also a high responsibility, must regain the right to continue representing the interests of the people in power, but to represent without populism, without selfishness, without political narcissism and finding enemies in the name of the interests of the Ukrainian people and every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-03-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Question completed. I inform you, honourable national deputies, here at the request of our fellow national deputies regarding the missing national deputies. Reference given to me from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Apparatus: “The country’s national deputies do not travel or vacation on March 3, 2010. Next. The treatments at the Feofania clinic include the National Deputies: Stretovic, Fedorchuk Jaroslav Petrovich, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna and Teren Viktor Vasilovich. [[I saw him today, he was in a meeting.]] That's all I got, I just read it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've been given some help, and I've read it to you. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, are to conclude this consideration by adopting a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm reading you a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After considering the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the socio-economic situation in Ukraine in accordance with part one of article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to adopt a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[6098 registration number]] I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6098]] Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[13:39:22]] For 243 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] In connection with our understanding of what is going on, we do. The factions? Please. May I have your attention, please? Factions: Region Party – 172, “Clock Timoshenko” – 7, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 15, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 19, “Afterfractional” – 3. Therefore, my dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Since 15 hours of work on the committees. Tomorrow we will resume our plenary session at 10 a.m.
