ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:42]] There were 394 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Momota Sergio Vasilovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, your attention to the announcement. On the basis of the statement made by the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” on 12 May 2010 and under part two of article 68 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I declare the opposition of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” to the political course of the coalition and its established Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Next announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Coalition of the MPs “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call of Feldman Alexander Borisovich. I'm giving you information, my fellow Members, on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 13 May 2010. 29 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 6 laws and 67 regulations were passed, 5 bills and 1 draft decree were returned for second reading to the committee, 3 bills and 6 draft regulations were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been rejected, the veto has not been overturned. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 5 and 9 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, were issued by the President of Ukraine on 12 May 2010 an order was issued to appoint the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Kuzmin Renata Raveliyovich, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. According to article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, part of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules before taking office as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, I invite a member of the High Council of Justice, Kuzmin Renata Raveliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u2	I, Kuzmin Renat Raveliyovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of laws and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u3	Welcome. [[Applause]] Yeah, that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an hour of questions for the government on Friday. In view of the fact that no proposals for this hour have been made, allow me now, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to make parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from Ukrainian national deputies, Andrija SKILK, to the President of Ukraine for the provision of copies of contracts for the rental of state - owned property by the Russian Federation for the founding of the Black Sea fleet. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:29]] For 134 Request not supported. Vladimir YAVORlSKI to the President of Ukraine about explaining for which personal and professional merit before Ukraine was given thanks and the appointed watch as the deputy head of the Council of the Russian-speaking Russian-Ukrainian Civil Movement, Ruslan Bortnik, who co-organised a scandalous exhibition in the Ukrainian House: "Vollin massacre: Polish and Jewish victims of UN-OPA", which distorts historical truth and provokes international hatred. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:19]] For-146 Request not supported. MOSKAL’S Gennadia to the President of Ukraine regarding the establishment of a Ukrainian citizen who tried to carry out a bank check for the sum of 125 million euros and the use of measures to address the threat of national security in Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:57]] For a hundred and Request not supported. Eugene KARJKOVA to the President of Ukraine on the abuse of the State Privatization Programme in 2009. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:08:26]] For 177 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:46]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Kirill KULIKOVA to the President of Ukraine on the illegal eviction of the Geroiv Foundation of the Soviet Union from the rented premises of officials of the Kyiv City State Administration and the National Deputy of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:20]] For-37 Request not supported. Jurija GNATKEVIĆA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the facts of the massive gross violation by the Ukrainian people's deputies of the oath, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine. Jury KARMAZIN to the Ukrainian Supreme Council for Human Rights, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the examination of the grave violation of Ukrainian citizens' constitutional rights for pension insurance in respect of the non-payment of significant pensions, in particular to categories of citizens such as children of war and war veterans, on the use of measures to restore the rights of pensioners who have been violated. Vladimir JAVORISKI to Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Seminozhenko of Ukraine on the illegal and in his own sense senseless management of the head of the Odessa State Administration, Edward Matwijczuk, of the de facto closure of the only Ukrainian district newspaper "The Black Sea News" in Odessa, which has lived for 90 years and has survived more than one secretary of the community and governor, protecting Ukrainian spiritual values, language and culture. I simply take the opportunity to draw the attention of the national MPs to the need for proper formulation of queries. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing for a sharp rise in prices of fuel-oil materials in the agro-industrial complex, with the aim of properly carrying out spring-field jobs in 2010. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to eliminate the extraordinary situation in the region of Shamish in the city of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk. Mr. Katerinczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the premises of the Kyiv City Health Centre to be alienated from hearing and speech problems. Mr. Mikoli KRAVČENKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Sevkovic, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the manipulation of social thought and consciousness, the inflaming of national and social hostility by television "The Great Politics" with Eugene Kiselov and "Shuster Live". MICHELLE RUDEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of making compensatory payments to citizens affected by an accident in CHEUS, the payment of one - time financial assistance to war veterans before Victory Day, and the care of children up to three years of age in the Gitomir region. Oleg TYSCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the employees of the State Committee in privatizing the land area of the citizen Anatolia Philipczuk. Helen ŠUSTIK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take action to address the problem of the Lviv dump. GREENEVECH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the further operation of the State Enterprise Scientific Research Institute of Mobile Technology. Jury SERBIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Government's actions to resolve the issue of the casino company "Sixton Penitentiary Plant "The Star". Andrija SCHOOL to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of copies of contracts for the rental of state - owned property in Ukraine by the Russian Federation for the founding of the Black Sea fleet. WECTOR OF SWEDEN to the Head of the Security Service, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the improper examination of the facts of bribery published in the media. Mr. Eduard PRUETNIK to Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to consider the collective appeal of residents of the villages of Tereshkovka and Schniakov of the region of Njizhina in order to contribute to the gasification of these locations. Eugene KARKOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the crime of officials regarding the destruction of the anniversary medals "50 Years of Victory in the Great National War". Igora SHAROVA to the Head of the Security Service regarding the verification of the existence of the country’s betrayal of the country’s national interests in the situation of the condemnation of the island of Snakes, the establishment of responsible persons and, if necessary, the involvement of them in the responsibility of the law in accordance with the law in force. Irina BELIEF to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the illegal action of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism Order of 18 January 2008 "On the duplication or sounding and subtitling of foreign national films". Irina, Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, Chief of State Service of Ukraine for Illegal Activities, in violation of article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service, Head of the State Film Service, Hanna Chill. MICHELLA to the U.S. Minister of Health about the provision of ambulances to the Nicopolian Emergency Medical Station in the Dnipropetrov region. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Minister for Education and Science of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation by the City Council of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Extra-School Education and the Order of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine No. 167 of February 24, 2009. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the possibilities for providing and real practice of introducing a positive image of Ukraine abroad, protecting the interests of the State, its citizens, and its domestic producers from informational discredit. The Olege ZARUBINSKO to the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine regarding Ukraine’s readiness for the 2010 resort and tourist season, Ukrainian children’s access to health facilities and measures to encourage domestic and foreign tourists to rest in Ukraine. Alexander KEMENYACHA to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about ensuring proper monitoring of compliance with the requirements of legislation for advertising by radio organizations of all forms of property. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine for the introduction of the Krasnosilk University of Education II-III graduated from the Alexandrov Region of Kirovograd to the list of socio-economic development objects on the basis of state subsidies. Jury CARMAZINA to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the organization of a review of the gross violation by the liquidator of the Igor Jaremchino Bank of the constitutional rights of the employees of the General Bank of the Open Shareholder Association of the Selyan Commercial Bank "Dniester" to pay for the work, the inaction of the employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region, the Prosecutor's Office of the Lichakow District of Lviv, the officials of the territorial State Labour Inspectorate in the Lviv Region, and the violation of the requirements of this Act. 40 The Constitutions of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine "On Turning Citizens", the use of appropriate measures to address numerous violations of the current legislation of Ukraine and to bring the guilty to justice. Irina HERASTENKO and Olga HERASIMYUK to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the elimination of civil organizations involved in the inflaming of ethnic and international hatred and human rights violations. Ms. Arsenija JACENJAK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the legal grounds for the renewal of the criminal investigation into a Ukrainian citizen named Yulia Timoshenko. The U.S. Department of Economics of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, the Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the need to end the cynical and systematic abuses of a group of companies known as the will cable, owned by Israeli citizens, a number of other countries and controlled companies located in offshore areas, and using the use of telecommunications networks that belong to the Kiev community and their monopoly on cable television and the Internet, illegally suspends their access to television and installs new and prevalent tariffs. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of the Society's labour team with limited responsibility for Kyivmizkvtorsources. Vladimir PILIPENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for exceeding the official authority of the Galician District Administration, Mr. Lviv, and for creating artificial obstacles to the conduct of entrepreneurial activities. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the activities of Dnipropetrov’s City Council on the Fifth Call in the Field of Land Relations. Gennady MOSKALA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the Prosecutor's Office of Kyiv of the procedural rights of the Ukrainian deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Alexander Donya. Edward PRUETNIK to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the need to verify the facts set out in the statement made by the head of the government of the agricultural production cooperative. Predation of the village of Victory of the Nižin district of Chernigiv district on the need for protection of landowners and property rations. ZOY SHISKINO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper consideration and response of the MP's appeal regarding the failure of the head of the Priyabov Rajadjektva "To grant permission for the development of a land-use project to run a private farm" which led to the violation of the land rights of citizen Alexia Krawtsov. MICILI KULCHINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal sale of land through the leadership of the Dnipropetrov City Council. MICHELLA RUDEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the solicitation committee of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the definition of the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine "Bilocerkow military trade" as the winner of the tender from the children's food organization in the city of Korstoń in the Žitomir region. GREENEVECH to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of laws by the authorities that carry out the search and search, the knowledge and the trial. Ulyani MOSTIPAN to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the improper examination by the Attorney-General of Ukraine of a parliamentary appeal concerning violations of the property rights of a citizen of Eleonori Burduzi, admitted by the Vasilkow City Council and the Basilkov Regional Court of the Kyiv Region. Jury ODARCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of criminal law by the Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Stelmashenko, regarding the political position during the ratification of the Agreement on the Continuation of the Russian Navy in Crimea. [[Article 125 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] Zinovia ŠKUTYKA and Volodymira KARPUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of current legislation during the organization and exhibition entitled "Volinski diff: Polish and Jewish victims of UN-OPA". Vladimir HERASIMČUKA to the city’s Kiev head on the issue of housing for a veteran of the Great Homeland War, a disabled man, and a group of Gregory Deserts. Ulysses MOSTIPAN to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for a violation of a criminal case involving the death of a citizen by Vladimir Szczepanski, who was assigned to a private enterprise named Alexy Shevchenk. [[Kyiv district, Mironovka city]] Thus, honourable national MPs, 63 parliamentary requests have been made, including five parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the proposal of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the funding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2010. [[May I have your attention, ……]] You know, honourable colleagues, that this position has been completely reflected in the budget, but in accordance with the Act on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we should separately approve the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is to say, to stand up to such a formal procedure. No objections? I'm telling you again that these loans were all distributed in the budget, but according to the requirements, we have to vote separately. I'm putting the bill to a vote. Please cancel the vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Please don't scream.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u4	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. The Supreme Council's cocory is a very difficult thing and a very difficult thing. And you and I know how the budget was received. No one was looking at anything. I addressed your name to the MP, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on this very subject. By the way, I'm completely consistent. Every call of the Supreme Council, I ask the question of whether there should be a report on the execution of the previous corrosive, and every time I say, let's make plans. And let's not just get one, two or three men in the secretariat to look into it. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we're not ready to consider this today because we didn't get these documents. Moreover, today’s MPs are supporting material for many of the Secretariat’s employees. We don't have the resources to let you know, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So let's try to separate the cost and accept it the way it's supposed to be, and let's not do it the way it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko. Then one from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you're just complaining about the heads of the Secretariat, the members of the Secretariat who don't give money. Well, you realize they're not doing it on their own initiative. If the Head of the Supreme Council is trying to carry the treasure like a cat in a bag, without discussion, without anything, what would those unfortunate employees of the Secretariat be required to do? I have a question for you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I didn't see that corrosive as well as the other deputies, and I'd like to see it. But I do know that there are a few million dollars worth of money in your troops, overflights, and so on. Please explain why you have so much money. Why don't you fly abroad by plane? Why don't you cut down on the number of security cars that follow you? Why not reduce the amount of security that protects you at the expense of the State? Why don't you give up the government? You have a private house. Why are you living in a state house, spending money? I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u7	As far as umbrellas are concerned. The following week, we will discuss the matter. So prepare, please, with umbrellas and not just umbrellas. Calm down. Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! I'd like to refer to known experts in the budget process, my colleague's last name, and I don't call it. Mr. Liege! Before we have to criticize this asset, we must accept it. Why? Because it's a balance sheet. There's an article in the budget using the Supreme Council's legislative work. That is why we can accept it and then criticize it, in accordance with the Budget Resolution, to submit it and so forth. So I'd like to say yes, because it's just a technical thing. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to turn to you: examples such as the provision of employment housing have been taken into account. [[Perhaps out of a sense of false modesty, Spiridon Kilincarov is silent.]] There are MPs like Kilinkarov the Communist, he has three children, and he still lives in a hotel house. It's about service housing. And yes, I would urge my colleagues to vote because it's a technical thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u9	Come on. The factions were already coming from the factions. One of the factions. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u10	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Indeed, decisions must be made. The State's budget is, and in order to open up the full functioning and activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this document needs to be adopted. This is the first time. And secondly, people who have a selective principle: when they sign gas contracts on clean leaves and give up when they hand over Snake Island with a shelf, they keep quiet the patriots, and today they wake up with grief patriotism. I ask you to put this question to a vote and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u11	Dear colleagues. The factions came out, calm down! I'm just saying, if we think it's necessary to destroy ourselves here, let's show that selective position of principle just demonstrated by one of the national MPs. We should have gone and demonstrated this principle's position with regard to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. For some reason they kept silent, and they took water into their mouths, because there was a fine dining room. And now they're starting to show principle. I only care that the higher legislature works. If you want to rub this undergarments all over the country, you have, that means, some people have absolutely no conscience. And all these positions that were, they were fixed in the state budget of Ukraine. We just have to do the formality. And you need the process, not the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now with regard to the apparatus. We should thank God, the Apparatus, who does much work for national deputies who do not read the laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] And let go of the saliva and blame it! We should not go to the Maybach on our own and say how much money this Maybach has earned. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Treasury of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2010. [[Registration number 6390]] [[10:28:58]] For 238. Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please log in one minute from the factions. Factions, please. Yes, please give me the names of the national deputies. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to give the floor to the national deputy of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u13	Please, the Ministry microphone of Vyazovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians! Today you have seen another blasphemy of the working majority. More recently, in five minutes, the majority accepted the State Budget of Ukraine. Today, without discussion in one minute, a document was adopted regarding the use of public money for national MPs. So what I'm saying is, those who voted today for the use of money in a secret way show exactly how popular they are and how open they are to the people are the national MPs. So I insist that the Head of the Supreme Council distribute this bill to the people's deputies, which was adopted today, which is already for implementation by the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Apparatus. We will control the extent to which the funds are used responsibly, according to articles approved by the majority today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u15	I meant Chernevski, not Oleg Layashka. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u16	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Today we are talking about the fact that a replica has been made that we are destroying Parliament. No, it's not. We've already destroyed it, but not by showing the money where it's going. Today there's good practice for three to gather, from the communists, from the Lithuanian Block, from the regionals, and decide where the children money is not just to Parliament, but to the whole state. So the first question is, why didn't you show this document to the MPs? Why didn't we get it and you're stretching it again? In doing so, you are demeaning Parliament, any function of the Budget Committee has led to zero, no one in the Budget Committee has seen the budget itself. This is the humiliation of Parliament. You've deprived us of our normal control functions for money, for the state's public money. So to talk about who's doing there after the destruction of Parliament, unfortunately, as a speaker today, you're destroying Parliament, leading it to the role, in general, of serving the Cabinet of Ministers. So let’s not give anyone such a sharp estimate of who’s driving. We all know who's driving and we're all going first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u17	Gennady Samofal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u19	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! I should like to inform you that a meeting of the Rules of Procedure was held in a totally working environment, in a calm environment, at which the cost of the Supreme Council was considered. Moreover, as our legislative framework implies, we would like this document to be considered ahead of the State budget. But given what has happened and the State budget has already been approved, Vladimir Mihajlovich has rightly said that the cost statement actually reflects the figures you have in the State budget. I am ready to report that the Committee has decided to accept this asset. But you can all take a good look at it and make a recommendation to the Supreme Council to accept the cost. With regard to the comments of individual deputies on the receipt of funds, that is, the only procedure by which funds provided for in the main accounting document could be waived.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u22	Yes. Write a statement and say no: Who wants to get paid, who wants to get paid, who wants to fly, who wants to travel, or who wants to get paid? There is no other procedural option. So let us not hesitate to do so, and whoever wants to do so, write a statement, and we will consider and make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u23	Thank you. Honorable fellow workers! Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u24	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues! Today, the adoption of the State Budget of Ukraine is on the table. You know, I can share the authors' opinion that the budget should be adopted at a very different time, namely at the end of the previous year. Whoever didn't take him then knows. It's different. He has another way to accept it. As a social deputy, I had a lot of comments on this document and I'd like to bring them in. But, honourable citizens of Ukraine, you saw very well on television who did not have a proper discussion and accept the country's main financial document, the State Budget of Ukraine. And today, when these same people raise the question of what was wrong with the budget, where is the limit of that cynicism, the lie, the abuse of people who don't know this truth? Dear colleagues! You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Here's the bottom line. When you were asked to consider and approve the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was obvious to all of you that these positions were determined by the State Budget of Ukraine, and each of you was given the State Budget of Ukraine. And to blame, and to say that something has not been given, there is absolutely no basis. But I understand that it's not the result that needs to be done, it just needs a process. And when you didn't get another handout, it turns out that you at least carefully wrapped up the part of the budget that relates to the financing of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's it. Did you need a trial? You got it. The issue is under review: the report of the Interim Investigative Commission on Investigations into the Violations of Ukrainian Legislation Requirements for the Disposal of Stocks held in State Property, Agricultural Associations in Agricultural Engineering in relation to the Activities of the Open Shareholder Association of the Leasing Company UkraineInvestment, as well as the investigation of the circumstances of the bankruptcy of the Open Shareholder Society of the Herson Combains. The rapporteur is the head of the commission, Ukrainian national deputy Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. How long do you need, Yuri Vitaliovich? The reporter asks 15 minutes and 5 questions. No warning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u26	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The order before the Interim Investigation Commission was followed. First. The investigation into the circumstances that led to the breach of Ukrainian legislation in the alienation of shares held by public shareholders in the field of construction in connection with the operation of VAT “The Leasing Company of Ukraine’s Invest”. And the second task is to find out the circumstances of the bankruptcy of VAT “Herson Combains”. It's about the first problem. During the period of work, the commission found that, as a result of the actions of officials of the Ministry of Industrial Policy and officials of VAT, “The Leasing Company of Ukraine’s Crime Signs”, the state lost control over the management of this leading state holding in the field of the construction of Ukraine. The holding company consisted of 37 state - owned enterprises. At the cost of the core funds, just so you know, they're four Crevices. But in favour of the officials of Minprompolitics and VAT, the Leasing Company of Ukraine, co-owner of half of the state holding, has become the unknown offshore company of Ukraine’s Interlink Overseas. In a further criminal way, the VAT statute of the Leasing Company “Ukragromashinvest” was amended, resulting in 13 holding companies not being transparently transferred to private entities without a privatisation procedure. In this way, a strategically important branch for Ukraine has been virtually destroyed. The chronology of events was as follows. The Cabinet decree of 1997 established the State Holding VAT “Leasing Company Ukraine-Invest”; 1998 The Cabinet decree approved the statute and the list of enterprises transferred to form the company’s statutory fund. I would like to point out that by this decree, 26 percent of the established statutory fund was fixed in state ownership within 5 years. 1999 The relevant Cabinet Decree has decided to increase the company’s statutory fund. The board, together with the company's observation board, was instructed to take steps to complete the formation of a statutory fund on the basis of the involvement of non-State investments in the established order. The investment in VAT “The Leasing Company Ukraine’s Leasing Company” has already been commissioned by the above offshore company, the non-resident of Ukraine’s Interlink Overseas. I would like to point out to you that the identification of an investor took place without a competition was in no way justified. Moreover, an independent valuation of nearly 50 percent of the shares sold to the offshore company was not carried out. As a result of these actions, the latter bought them for only 28 million dollars, and provided for transparent privatization, the amount could be tens of times higher. But even these scarce assets, almost half of the state holding, were not used for the purpose, since the company did not use them to finance the production of agriculture. Everyone repeats 28 million management of the company transferred to the account of the company “Ukrapilar”. The purpose of the payment was: for oil products. However, the VAT product did not receive the lysing company, because in the subsequent scheme of the VAT administration, the company created an artificial debt to the company Patchpilar and counted the requirements. Thus, because of the negligence or malicious inaction of officials from the Watch Tower Society and the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, the government of holding practically exchanged half of the company’s corporate rights to the concept of managing the holding company in the form of a software product already worth 38 million dollars, which is actually printed on several pages. At present, the location of this highly intelligent product is unknown. The next step in the theft of VAT assets was to make changes to the company's statutes, which allowed without the agreement of shareholders and even without the agreement of the Supervisory Board to alienate the company's assets. All these actions took place with the direct participation of Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Padalk Viktor Grigorovich. From Padalek’s explanations in criminal case number 491853, he recalled the previous draft of the statute, which enshrined the rights of the State in connection with the fact that he had been instructed by the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine to draft a charter drawn up by the offshore company. That's what I'm quoting. When asked by members of the committee at the meeting, Mr. Padalko did not give a clear answer why he, as a representative of the State in the general meeting of shareholders, supported the amendments to the statute, which further allowed the company to alienate the property of a huge holding company whose statutory fund was shares owned by the State. In the course of the investigation, the Commission found that the withdrawal from the general meeting protocol of shareholders, issued by the registrar to amend the statutes and withdrawals held by the Ministry of Industrial Policy, was not appropriate for the content that gave rise to the claim that the extract given to the registrar was falsified by the head of the government, “The Ukrainiansinvest Hrodoshtal and the deputy head of the Colgan government. As a result of these changes in the company’s administration, the company’s assets were unhindered. It should also be noted that the monitoring board of the company was headed by the same deputy minister of industrial policy, Padalko, and the monitoring board did not take any steps, nor did it take any steps to restore the State’s rights. The law enforcement authorities have not received any claim regarding the falsification of changes to the statute since the registration of the statute, not after the sale of liquid assets to the company, which was more than 50 per cent owned by the State. Then, in 2004, the first substitute for the head of VAT, the Leasing Company, Ukragromashinvest, Kolgan, was the illegally estranged stock of 13 factories, which were once the pride of Ukrainian mining, all of which were the Kharkiv tractor factory called Ordjonikidze, the Herson Combin Factory and so on. As for the second issue set by the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the TSC, regarding the determination of the circumstances of the bankruptcy of VAT “Herson Combains”. The following has been found. In 2004, for the promotion of the State Property Fund, Interpipe, with serious violations of legislation, changed the head of government and the head of the VAT Observation Board of the "Herson Combains". It is not hard to guess that the new head of government and the head of the observation board were individuals directly linked to the Interpipe Corporation. But in the new leaders of VAT, the "Herson Combains" have not changed better, and the financial situation of the company has worsened considerably. As a result, a bankruptcy case was filed by the court of the Herson region on the basis of the claim of the company Stroycomplet, which is controlled by the Interpipe Corporation. And the newly elected VAT administration of the "Herson Combains" did not pay off the debt, despite the fact that the monthly cash flows significantly exceeded the amount of the claimed debt in the amount of just 160,000 dollars. This fact can only testify to one thing: the company’s management deliberately led to bankruptcy. Then, too, the event developed quite interestingly. The owner of VAT “Herson Combins” was Bilodid, who so far consistently represented the interests of Interpipe and related structures. During this time, a new legal person is being created at the VAT address “Herson Combains” – Society with limited responsibility “Herson Machine Factory”. On June 25, the Herson County Master Court approved a peace agreement under which the newly established Herson Machine Plant Company, in exchange for virtually all the assets of the so-called bankruptcy, pledged to pay off debts to creditors for a period of three years. The choice of investor for VAT “Herson Combains” took place without a competition and without proper justification of the need to transfer all VAT assets to the benefit of the investor. Moreover, there is reason to doubt the independence of the company’s “Regional Evaluation Company Poltava Export”, which carried out the valuation of VAT’s “Herson Combains” and indicated the value of tens of times the market value. The cost of the basics, the square meters, is a building in the center of a city of 10 or 12 bracelets, tens of tons of machines -- at a level of one and a half thousand, up to a thousand dollars. The interim commission of inquiry has evidence that the investor of the “Herson Machine Plant” does not carry out his own obligations under the peace agreement on the basis of which he received the debt of the VAT debtor “Herson Combains”. Thus, the exchange of assets has proved ineffective neither in terms of debt recovery nor in terms of the creation of a new effective owner, since at present VAT “Herson Combains” is again in bankruptcy. And the Herson Machinery Company is virtually out of work, illegally freed up about a thousand workers and engineering workers who are currently holding numerous protests. In addition, the officials of the Herson Machinery Plant and the officials of the Ministry of Industrial Policy have made a breakout of the budget of 4 million dollars. In the process of working for the TSK by the National MPs, members of the TSK have developed a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to encourage the development of domestic machinery for the agro-industry complex. Mechanisms have been set up to influence the state’s processes. We suggest that we introduce the following principle. First. To approve the national strategy for the development of certain industrial sectors in order to identify, not the sector, but the individual enterprises that need to be assisted and then through the institution of temporary state administrations, to introduce a certain regime for the management of these enterprises. This mechanism lays very well on our legislation, it supports the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and its Fundamental Freedoms, and such a mechanism is absolutely conducive and possible for its adoption. On the basis of 88 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Tsk, the Supreme Council recommends that the TSC report be made public. The interim investigator of the commission to report to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Security Service. Third. The main audit office of Ukraine to conduct VAT checks on the Leasing Company, the Herson Engineering Company and the Watt "Herson Combains". Four. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to give a legal assessment of the actions of former Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy of Padalko, which resulted in the purposeless use of the funds received by VAT “The Leasing Company“ from the sale of its own shares and from the sale to other companies of state-owned stock packages transferred to the Society’s statutory fund, as well as the activities of the former head of VAT “The Leasing Company Ukagroshiinvest” of Hrošajlov and former Deputy Chief of Staff of the Society “Herson Machine Plant” in connection with the circumstances outlined in the report of the interim commission of inquiry and the use of appropriate response measures. Fifth. Abort TSC authorization. Six. The interim investigator of the commission publishes a report in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor. Report complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u27	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Yes, please, we have five minutes. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u28	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Yuri Vitaliovich, I read carefully and listened to what the report said. And I didn't see that stuff from him. I did not see the role and place of the State’s law enforcement agencies. I didn't see here what the Security Service was doing or what it was doing, what its position is now. There is a Ukrainian Security Service. It's not the service of one's interests, it's the security of Ukraine. There's the U.S. Attorney General's Office, like there's a system of organs that carry out general oversight, except investigation and everything. There's also the Ministry of Internal Affairs, other structures. Here's their role, please, if you can describe it. Because you get to act like you're good at these organs. And you report to them, not to us today. I'd like to hear that ratio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. Today, the Ukrainian Security Service, I hold in my hands a letter signed by the Head of the Security Service to Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine, where he: the Honourable Victor Fedorovich, addresses and sets out all these circumstances that are essentially set out in the report. and notes that the transfer of shares in accordance with the order of the Ukrainian State Property Fund has taken place with violations of current legislation and has caused damage to the interests of the State. In fact, this matter has been dealt with many times by the competent authorities. She was last considered in favour. President Yushchenko had a position. Sadly, though, it was closed by the prosecutor’s office. After the temporary commission of inquiry, the investigation has now been reopened and something has been done. In fact, reinstated people who were illegally fired from their jobs. But a serious consideration that he would set.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u30	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u31	there was no serious consideration by the competent authorities, which, in the example of this holding, showed that this was a clear, sudden scheme for the theft of state property. I repeat: the cost of this property is equal to 4 "crossbows". Today, thanks to these machinations, actions have actually lost the field of construction. There's no position, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u32	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. Prepare for Serbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u33	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Clearly, actions to destroy the Ukrainian industry are coordinated. I would like to say that, for example, sugar factories in Ukraine, which have been systematically cut out by representatives of certain political forces that are now in power, as well as their satellites, have led to the fact that we are buying sugar in Belarusians today. I think the commission should consider, and did it consider, in terms of the competitive struggle of neighbouring countries with our economy? In particular, a similar factory is located on Don, and there are combines. Like the Kharkiv Tractor Plant, it is in Chelyabinsk, and tractors are released there. So it seems to me to our neighbors that in Ukraine, neither tractor nor combiner would work, that imported equipment would continue to be sold here, including Western manufacturing, such as combines and tractors. I'd like to ask if you've analyzed the decline in the competitiveness of Ukrainian machinery factories against the backdrop of an increase in the output of a similar technique.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u34	In due time, the government secured the government’s ownership of its property by means of the Cabinet’s corresponding decrees. Kabminu's decree, which removed these restrictions and essentially opened a gateway to such a kind of machination, was signed by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic when he was Prime Minister of Ukraine. Today we have an absolutely strange situation where we have our own grain, we have our third grain export, we have our own metal, but we don't have our own agricultural construction. This technique is being bought. Today, in Ukraine, it has been destroyed accordingly. Timoshenko’s decision was made when he closed the door assembly and an appropriate program for the development of domestic machinery was adopted. But unfortunately, today it doesn't work and it doesn't work. The Hersonian combines are used to build open-circuit companies of the Belarusian combine, where 30 people work on top of everything, and it makes the wheels hard. Galousia's gone. There's no hard machinery, it's deliberately destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u35	Please, Serbian Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u36	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, today, my request to the Prime Minister for the "Star" casino was announced because I fought with the Minister of Industrial Policy for three months and received a write-off because there is no main answer: what will happen to our industry, with the defence and, in time, with our agriculture industry. Do you not think that we are still in the draft decision that you have just announced, that the government will still consider and submit it, if it is not in place, and the program that was adopted by the government of Timoshenko to make its program for the restoration of our industry, so that the Herson factory will still work, because the law enforcement agencies are the law enforcement agencies: let them work and look for who is responsible and order them. But the main thing for us is to restore our industry, to provide it with currency in these jobs. Then perhaps it is worth including in the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u37	Thank you, Yuri Sergiyovich. You're making a perfectly right offer. The interim commission of inquiry proposes the following mechanism. First of all, according to our legislation, the government has been mandated to adopt and approve a priority development programme for agriculture in the Supreme Council. This program allows us to set priorities and determine appropriate businesses and then maybe because of changes in legislation, and we've brought them up to date with the Supreme Council, duplicate or distribute the system of temporary state administrations in enterprises, and on the one hand have the programs and finances you're talking about. On the other hand, we have serious control now at the level of the state to develop these funds. Because the laws that apply to the return to state property are fine, but this mahogany, he's going to be around for years. In a year or two from any company, there'll be nothing left to mention. It's urgent today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u38	Please, Valery Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u39	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! After reading and listening carefully to your report, I would say that the main purpose of your TSC is not fulfilled why? Because you're the Follower Commission, and any investigation, it's summed up by some kind of proposal. I mean, where are your findings, or where are your legislative proposals for the bankruptcy law? Why? Because now the law is about restoring the ability of the borrower. And if you imagined and discovered there was a deliberate, artificially concealed bankruptcy, that's already a criminal category. So, I would have thought that your report should have had some kind of proposal for a bill on nationalization. Because there's no nationalization project like this. Personally, as a citizen, I don't care who owns it, whether it's a state or a private owner, what's important is that they pay their wages and the main thing is that they release the vans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u40	The commission, I repeat, studied this question, and you know, it was the idea to change the Bankruptcy Act, but these mechanisms don't allow production to happen quickly. From the point of view of nationalization or the return to state property through the consideration of a series of criminal offences, and all this privatization is a series of serious criminal offences. Sadly, though, they have not been considered. If we begin to consider today, the return to state ownership will last for years under various political influences. I don't know if he's even possible. The Institute of Temporary State Administration, it allows this enterprise to come to the state today and start managing the issue of combines, helping the owner or replacing the owner, if there is a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u41	Yes, thank you. The report and the answers to the questions have been completed. We'll make a decision. Dear colleagues! You have a draft decree, and the reporter, Yuri Vitaliyovich, has informed you of the content of this decree. I am voting on Bill No. 6155 -- draft Resolution on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of Ukrainian legislation requirements in the alienation of stocks held by state ownership, agricultural engineering shareholders in connection with the operation of VAT "The Leasing Company of UkraineInvest", as well as the determination of the circumstances of the bankruptcy of VAT "Herson Combains". Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u42	Based on the base. [[11:01:56]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 102, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 31, Communists - 26, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. So, I'm sorry, we didn't make the decision. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, I don't know why we didn't vote, but maybe that's the same reason that, let's say, I have a question before the ruling. In particular, we haven't discussed this issue, but four “Crimsons” at their worth, four, it's thirteen factories that have gone somewhere now. And obviously, paragraph 5, where it is written, “Stop the authorization of the Temporary Investigation Commission”, is obviously a question that raises the question, obviously we should continue to be authorized by the Commission and should have, together with the sending of information to the Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service and other law enforcement authorities initiating court decisions, had the Commission monitor and reported to the Supreme Council how we exercise this control. Obviously, therefore, Adam Ivanovich should perhaps discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u44	Well, the factions were already speaking, and the boards were speaking. At the insistent request of the representative of the Hare, a representative of Bondik has the floor, and Matthew asks. Yes, Alexander Mikolaiovich, Bondar, sorry, not Bondik, but Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u45	I would just like to put the vote again, and I don't think the MPs understand what we're voting for. I didn't understand the position of the "Block of Lithuania" and the parts of "Our Ukraine" and "BU." If we don't make a decision on this committee, we'll have these cases repeated, and we'll never get the order in the holdings that were created. In fact, the faction of Communists passed a law similar to that of the "Herson combines" and supported the commission's decision. I don't know what the questions might be in the report of the commission that worked and professionally analyzed the situation. If we don't do it, once again, all the holding companies will continue to steal the held property and we won't be able to prevent it. I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to put the Commission's report to the vote again, and I think that the Lithuanian Block and our Ukraine will fully vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u46	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u47	I'll contact you, Alexander Mikolayovich, I'm not afraid you'll take the line. I don't think we should look at others all the time -- look at yourself. See how many of your fellow factions voted in favour of the commission report, how many representatives of your political power voted, work with your people first! So I'm telling you again, look at it and raise your fellow factions who give 20 percent of the votes. As for our position, we support Yuri Carmazin's proposal and we see that there is an object for the commission to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u48	Yes, please, School, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u49	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Actually, I'd like to support it. Because the MPs actually couldn't figure out that this was a vote for the report. So I'd like to ask you a question about going back to the voting issue. Well, because I understand that there is such a situation, we accept it, so let's do it. Because, well, we haven't really been able to navigate the process. Well, it does, because Friday is the last day of the week. You do realize that we are the decision of the deputy commission headed by a member of our faction, and we know it well. So, Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to put this question to the vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, and Karmazin's amendment has no right to life yet, because the commission, when we created it, we set up deadlines. And secondly, I think that accusing a fellow MP that someone didn't understand or realized something -- it's okay, everybody understands. But since there was an offer, please who would like to return to this question, please make a determination. [[11:07:11]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The work of the Temporary Investigation Commission has been suspended. But I think that the materials that are worked on the committee can use the possibilities and use them to get to know the media. It's a question of number. I'm sorry. By the number, by the number. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u51	The factions? Well, please, by the factions. Region Party – 1, Block of Timoshenko – 127, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 49, Communists – 26, Block of Lithuania – 0, non-fractional – 1. Bill number 6372 is under consideration. Report of the Temporary Special Commission on the preparation of the concept of judicial and legal reform. Reported to the head of the temporary special commission, Helen Juryovna Shustik. The report of the commission’s chairman is 15 minutes. The answers to the questions are 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A temporary special commission for the preparation of the concept of judicial and legal reform was formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 23 December 2009 at the number 1789-6 deadline of six months until 23 June of this year, composed of 11 Ukrainian national deputies who presented all the factions to Parliament. Despite the fact that the Temporary Special Commission, which is the only one working today in the Supreme Council, was not provided with equipment, facilities, or machinery, and unfortunately not all deputies took an active part in its work, but the work was carried out and the concept of judicial reform was prepared and already registered yesterday. The project is based on proposals from the Venice Commission, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the judges of appeals institutions, scientists, practitioners and the proposals of the national deputies Soboljev Sergia, Sinchenka, Alexeieva, Labunski, which were submitted in writing. [[BUT]] [[‘Block of Lithuania]] [[Communist Party]] [[BUT]] Actually, there was a committee meeting in this warehouse. Real judicial reform remains one of the most important tasks for Ukraine, and we do not really have an accessible fast and simple procedure to protect the rights of citizens and legal persons. Because in recent years, the main challenge for pseudo-reformers has been, unfortunately, not to ensure that justice is available, but to subject the courts to political and corporate interests. Instead, the draft concept proposes a judicial reform, not for judges and politicians, but for people. In particular, the concept foresees that further reform of the judiciary in Ukraine should take place systematically, on the ground, consistently and starting with the improvement of the constitutional principles of the judiciary, the judiciary and the status of judges. In particular, it is necessary to guarantee the right of a person to a fair trial during a reasonable period by an independent and impartial court. To establish the rule of law as one of the principles of justice that will enable judges to rule on this constitutional principle. Establish a National Parliamentary and Peace Judges Institute to deal with complex civil disputes and cases of minor administrative offences. To improve the principles of the formation and activities of the High Council of Justice in order to make it impossible for politicians to influence its activities. Grant the Supreme Court of Ukraine the right to legislative initiative and to determine its status as a court of cassation. Set up an order for judges to be appointed to administrative posts in the courts of general jurisdiction, except for the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and their dismissal. Strengthen the guarantee that funds will be allocated to the needs of the courts at a level that is no lower than actual needs. And in the preparation of the State Budget of Ukraine, align the costs of financing the judiciary with those of judicial self-government. It is also appropriate to improve the procedure for the selection of judges and to increase the disciplinary responsibility of judges. Unify and question the court's application and the prosecution's decisions. In parallel, it is necessary to reform the system of pretrial investigation. Adopt new Acts on Public Prosecutions, Lawyers, Notariate, Criminal Procedure Code, Code on Administrative Offences, Unify Economic Procedural and Civil Procedural Legislation. And put reconciliation procedures in place in different categories of business. Improve the enforcement system and ensure that they are implemented. An effective system of free legal assistance must also be created for those who cannot protect themselves. The right to free legal aid should be guaranteed to the unprotected population not only in criminal matters but also in civil and administrative jurisdictions, with the appropriate funding of these rights-based services of professionals at the expense of the public budget. The concept is designed to improve the judicial system of Ukraine. Regrettably, the legal system is divided. It is characterized by different approaches to the construction of general and specialized courts, different procedures for the prosecution of decisions by courts of different jurisdictions. In the fields of economic and administrative justice, there are four chains of courts that are not needed to date. As a result, most cases have been dealt with for years, and court decisions have been repeatedly reversed and cases referred to a new court. Even less so, by the way, the system of courts is proposing a draft Act amending Ukraine's Act on Sudokustry, number 916. It is a scandalously well - known law passed by the former president of Ukraine, and it is so strongly supported, unfortunately, by the Party of the Regions. And by the way, the diagram he's offering for the ship's design, you can see it on one of the boards right now. And it is clear that even lawyers and judges find it difficult to determine exactly where the court needs to be sued. I'd like you all to pay attention to this system with the system. Instead, the concept suggests another reform of the courts. Reforming the judicial system should ensure that citizens have proper access to justice. And the same proposal, by the way, is supported by the Venice Commission in its final conclusion of March 16, this year, stressing that in such a complex and wise judicial system there is a risk of delaying conduct. The Venice Commission proposes that the higher specialized courts and the Supreme Court of Ukraine unite in such a way that the functions assigned to the higher specialized courts are performed by specialized colleges or chambers of the Supreme Court. So in exchange for this abracadabra or jungle, the concept proposes a simple and clear scheme. You can see it right now on the board, the trilanque system of the courts. Local courts as first instance courts. The Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the Court of Cassation. This is the only way of dealing with cases by the courts. The case is essentially the first instance, the appeal and the case, and that's all, the citizens are going to get a quick decision, the legal persons are actually going to get the case. This ensures the unity of the judicial system and judicial practice. As a basis for improving the system, it is proposed that an organizational mechanism be put in place to deal quickly and effectively with matters. At the same time, the main focus is on ensuring the accessibility and proximity of justice to ordinary citizens. The draft concept also suggests reforming the status of judges. We need to make it impossible to intervene in the execution of justice by any entity, including officials and those who have their own powers, as well as politicians. At the same time, the heads of the courts should be deprived of the procedural powers required to intervene in the judicial proceedings. It is a matter of dealing with the issue of diversions, extending the terms of the trial, transferring the case to another court, as well as the right to distribute cases between judges. Things should be distributed exclusively in an automated order on a random basis. The concept is designed to improve the system of selection and qualification of judges. Only the most qualified and moral people should be accommodated by the judges. And in order to be a judge, candidates who have passed a qualification test have to undergo an open competitive selection. I think the first appointment of a judge should also raise the candidate's age rating from 25 to 30 and increase the internship requirements for such a candidate for legal expertise from 3 to 5 years. The project identifies improvements in the judicial disciplinary responsibility of judges. Because in addition to guaranteeing the independence of judges, it is necessary to introduce such a mechanism to bring judges to real responsibility for taking, for example, presumptuously unjust decisions, for seemingly unqualified judgements, for systematic, deliberate delay in judicial proceedings, for gross violation of the rules of judicial ethics and for disciplining the work, for disciplining a secret that has become known during closed proceedings. And it takes a very serious and profound reform of the disciplinary commissions. The grounds for bringing judges into and dismissing disciplinary responsibility must be clearly defined and not interpreted in double terms. And in order to prevent corruption, it is also necessary to provide for the legal obligation of every judge: to submit a declaration to the National Court of Justice each year concerning his or her family’s income and property status. Similarly, the project proposes a mechanism to regulate the appointment of judges to and discharge from administrative positions in the courts. The positions for further reform are detailed in the draft concept of judicial reform, which I said was registered yesterday. It sets out the stages of judicial reform, the list and order of legislative acts that need to be adopted from the Constitution, the codes and the laws. And I think it is Parliament that should set out the direction of reforming justice. Because the definition of the principles of internal politics in accordance with the 85th article of the Constitution is part of the mandate of ours with you, the authority of the Supreme Council. And I'm going to remind you of the concept of judicial reform in 1992, which actually led to the first phase, the second stage and the third legal reform. Sadly, it has not yet been completed. And I think that each of you should realize that we need to support the reform of the judiciary, not for ourselves, not for certain names and personalities, not for a certain political power or for the name of the President, but for it to actually serve our citizens. Therefore, if the design of the concept is to be considered and accepted by this room, it has to win more than 300 votes, in order for the judicial authority to receive, say, a second breath for the real service of the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Put it on the board. Ten minutes. Please, Vladimir Karpuk. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u54	Dear Olena Yuriovno, you have done quite a bit of work in reforming the judicial system in Ukraine. But the introduction of the post of deputy on appropriate issues in the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the creation of the appropriate commission, yesterday's situation in the Supreme Council, when a large number of laws adopted by Law 6109, does it not indicate that your work, your concept, will remain outside this process? And Parliament can stay away from judicial reform, and it will be created by a small group of people in that style to make the judicial system subordinate to one political power, and to establish, not a dictatorship of law, but a dictatorship of political power. So thank you for your work. But what are your thoughts on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u55	Mr. Volodymyr, thank you so much for your question, both meaningful and thorough. Actually, you answered your own question. Such fears are, they are very serious, because today, with mass violations of the Rules, the Constitution, when laws are passed that regulate the activities of the judicial branch itself, we will tomorrow find that any decision of any judge will, first of all, doubt, and it will not give legitimacy even to this authority that is today, and will work against it as a result, and may become the beginning of its end. Regrettably, today's Parliament is in person and opposition, and even most of the people who think soberly, who think in a stately way, I would say, remain behind these processes. Therefore, your fears are completely at stake, sadly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u56	Please, Yuri Carmazin. Behind him is Tushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u57	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. With great respect to me, Madam Commissioner, I would like to disagree with you very much on the ways of reforming the judicial system. Seeing the flaws, including, from the inside, working as a judge, I firmly oppose the fact that we are focusing more on the one Supreme Court today. Because it's not access to justice. Look at the complaints that come to us. I think that creating on the basis of what there is, in addition to specialized courts, the Higher Criminal Court and the Higher Civil Court would be in the interest of citizens' access. But in any case, there must be a number of options. How much is one option for a state, how much is another choice for a state? I'd like you to say that in terms of what's going on. And how to stop the court's permissiveness from having anything to decide in Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u58	Jury Anatolyovich, as I am a highly respected and authoritative MP, I thank you very much for your point of view. The only warning is that the design of the concept focuses on the elements of basic justice in appeals and on the first instance. So each institution has to make a decision, which is then accused further up. Not the Supreme Court will be the hub of the earth or the center of the main decisions. No, no, no. As a court of cassation, of course. Yuri Anatolyevich, about the roadway or, for example, the value of these judicial schemes. Clearly, what the 0916 offered, this branched system, no state in today's conditions would have been financially viable. There are terrible, there are 25 billion needed to reform such a court. Instead, the three-chain system, its construction, for example, will save money for the state, because we don't need to produce any new administrative posts, they're going to cancel out, and that's wages, equipment and premises, and no new premises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u59	Alexander Steshenko. Beams.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u60	Olena Yuriovno, thank you so much for the meaningful report. I don't think even those national MPs who don't have much to do with their previous activities in the judicial system understand what this is about. And it seems to me that yesterday's consideration of Bill 6109, he's saying that the fate of this concept is not quite simple. And so many associate with the person the very concept that will stand at the highest level of the judicial system. And these are the questions we've been asked, they're everywhere. And I have a question about how many stages you're proposing, here's your view. And on a time scale, if they could be implemented, if the hall were to support the concept that you've presented today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u61	Thank you very much, Alexander Mikolaiovich, for proposing three steps to implement this concept, this is actually the preparation of changes to the Constitution, this is the preparation of new codes of legislative, legislative and, in fact, the time to bring the current legal system into the scheme that is proposed. I would hope that it would take one and a half years at the best time. But you're right that the fate of this concept, unfortunately, can be sad, even though you're also right in that it's not made under a specific name, under a specific, let's say so, the head of the judiciary, it's made for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u62	Please, Valery Beales. After him, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u63	Dear Olena Yuriovno! My colleague Karmazin said that he respects you very much, I'll be even smarter, I'll say that I respect you very, very much. In this regard, too, questions. It is known that the 20th century practice of independence in Ukraine shows that excessive specialization in the judicial system has led to its destruction, unfortunately, in the state. In this regard, it is known that whales on which the judicial system is to be built in general are civil law and criminal law. As a result, everything else we've come up with: administrative, economic and so forth is from the wicked. Do you not think that both the functional and organizational structure of the entire judicial system for its unity should be built on only these two whales and no more. Both the chambers of the local courts and the two chambers of civil affairs and criminal cases, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u64	Mr. Valeria, thank you so much for the warm words and for the very nice question. If you want to know my personal opinion, I absolutely agree with you. Because the judges get a completely equal and the same basic legal education, because then inside, let's say, specializations in court can look at different categories of cases. And what's more, a citizen shouldn't get mixed up in all these schemes, the names of the courts and their specializations, he has to come near his place of residence, file a complaint with the court, and let the judges handle it, the judges will figure out to which chambers to take it to. [[In one court, yes]] The commission in the warehouse where she could make a decision decided to leave the chambers and the local specialized courts as a compromise. [[That's six national deputies out of 11]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u65	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko. Behind him is Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u66	Vladimir Bondarenko "Block of Yulia Timoshenko", Party “Reforms and Orders”. First of all, I would like to make an offer to our fellow national MPs not to use such a term as “dictature of law”. God forbid, there will be a dictatorship of the law. The law is written and changed. We see this in the case of the Supreme Council Rules. Today he was like this, tomorrow morning he was set up like this. There has to be a single right dictatorship. And today, the whole of Europe, the entire civilized world lives by the principles of the dictatorship of human rights, first and foremost. And the second thing I'd like to say. This concept answers a whole range of very interesting and needed questions: who, where, how do you take these matters? That is, where a man is judged, where the territory is, and so on. The other one. Who is funding this system of justice. Who, at least to export decisions, is clearly not justice, and so on. So, so far we've been living without a concept, we've come to the point that no one understands at all what category of cases, where, who will be the courts, and who will be the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u67	Mr. Volodymyr, thank you so much for asking. It was probably a position rather than a question. But I would like to answer Mr. Carmazin's questions about corruption in the courts. Now, if our judges are really going to be as dependent on the law and the law and as independent of interference as possible, then we're going to get rid of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u68	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u69	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear reporter, you know, when I listened to your report and knew the situation in the judicial system, I feel like we've been reforming the judicial system for 20 years, and the more we reform it, the worse the result. Unfortunately, this does not improve. In this regard, I often have to meet with the electorate, and they see that one element of improving the judicial system is the system of judicial selection. Because you and I know that judges are very often different experts before they're approved, untimely, until they're approved, and after they're approved. So how do you feel about the idea of re-election of judges as an element of improving the functioning of the judicial system?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u70	Thank you so much! The question is very interesting and, again, very meaningful. You're absolutely right, the more we reform, especially in the way that the law was adopted yesterday, the less the result we have on the way out, because we don't know what we're reforming, and, frankly, why. With regard to the election of judges. This question is actually debated, it has been discussed in the same way, so long as the first option is the election of peace courts and national judges, or peace judges, are the judges closest to a citizen in that community, at the first level, and to decide all of these, in our opinion, perhaps minor matters, and for the people most important. Well this is going to be the first stage, maybe the second stage, the choice of a vessel as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u71	Thank you, sit down, please, Olena Yuriovno. Yes, dear fellows, we will. From factions? Well, please, one minute at a time. Anyone wants to sign off on the factions. Yes, please, Yuri Anatolyovich, you have arrived. Carmazine. Behind him is Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Those who say who are the last to record or not – the Lord knows better who to give the word to. So respectable friends obviously have a few approaches to the concept of judicial reform. We all think they're figuring out what to do with judicial reform. Actually, it's not like that. It's a question of discussion. And I am now very afraid that the beloved of these laws, including the one on our committee right now, will not choke through the knee, beloved of these laws. And it feels like we're not ready to consider the concept yet, because we don't have the calculations, the normal calculations that are completely confirmed by both Minfin and all the courts. And I'd like us to work on it, work harder, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Valery Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I'm the one who left a separate opinion and didn't sign this report. Not because we have a different view of reforming the judicial system, but because I work with Olena Juryovna on the same committee. But if there's a profile committee, why create a TSC? If there's a working group with the President on the concept of where it goes, by the way, and the Minister of Justice, and the Head of the Supreme Court, and the Council of Judges of Ukraine, why would we have such a TSC? But the report that has now come out of the rostrum can only agree that the judicial system really needs to be reformed. But according to the Constitution, what should the people of Ukraine have? Territorial jurisdiction and jurisdiction over hearing cases. I mean, you know, these novels that we're talking about because of the boogeyman, they tell us that we should have some kind of system. The ship's system should be accessible to the human being. But there are cases and, unfortunately, Helen Juryovna did not say when the Chamber, the Civil Court Chamber, sent cases back to the Presidium of District Courts. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u75	Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u77	Turn on Vladimir Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u78	Vladimir Bondarenko. “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, “Reforms and Orders” Party. You can't build anything without a plan. The concept is a reform plan. And when it's not approved, everyone, starting with the President and ending with the ordinary judges, implements their plan, and especially the heads of the judicial administration use what is out of order. So today, we have these cases that are being dealt with in a territorial way, no matter where the legal case itself is, which needs to be evaluated. Nevertheless, once again, how and who will receive the matter for their consideration. So this concept that's being suggested, it solves these issues, and that's good. If something is done in other institutions, you can either complete it or take it off. But it is impossible to build a Ukrainian judicial system without a plan, without a concept. This has proved to be the practice of the last years, which is the odyssey of trials that are going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u79	Thank you. The discussion is over. We will proceed with Decree 6372 on the report of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the preparation of the concept of judicial and legal reform. It is suggested that we accept the report to the public. A temporary special commission to continue its work. A temporary special commission to submit to the Supreme Council a draft concept by June 23rd of this year and publish a report by the Temporary Special Commission in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and publish it in other media. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:36:48]] For-153 The decision is not taken. The factions. Areas – 0; “Timosheno Block” – 116; “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 36, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 1, non-fractional – 0. In view of the fact that we, honourable colleagues, decided to create such a commission, gave her a term of six months, they are two or three days away. Therefore, the work of the commission will be completed. But I am reminded of the well - known article of the Constitution, which speaks of who is the subject of the legislative initiative. And first of all, there are the national deputies of Ukraine. So the work done on the committee, those who worked, they have absolutely the right and the right to correct this concept, not on behalf of the commission, but to send it to the Supreme Council as a national deputy. So I want to calm down and point out that your work is not going to fail or go missing. And we're probably going to be next to other concepts, because we're really talking about what. They reminded us that a special commission had been created and the President's Administration would be seen as an alternative and we would determine which concept would be better for the Ukrainian judiciary and where we would stop. Shustik, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u80	Olena Shustik, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party. First of all, I want to thank all those who voted in favour of the ruling and all those who are interested in the real reform of the judiciary, which would be accessible to our citizens. Adam Ivanovich may still need to continue the work of the commission. I have the right to make such an offer, although I understand that it is unlikely that it will be supported by a hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u81	The point is that we voted on a draft ruling that included this proposal. You see, unfortunately, she didn't get the support, you know, she won't get it, so we'll go that way, I think we've agreed. The bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Cabinet of Ministers is under consideration. As for the article. Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, please microphone. Short-circuited? Okay. Please, who's in favour of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:40:01]] For-179 Andrew, vote or not, 150 votes. So it's a reduced procedure. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! National MP Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I'm calling you on the bill number 2565. The bill was filed 26. The year is 05.2008. And right after the law was passed, the bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And this bill is simply designed to correct the technical error that occurred in the drafting of this law for the second reading. That's what this is about. When the draft law was submitted to the Supreme Council, the pension security of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was determined by 59 articles. At the end of this bill, it was envisaged that the action of article 59, which touched the pension security of the Kabmin members, was also extended to pensioners from the former Ukrainian RSR Council of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR, who had been appointed to take effect by this law. In that Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is assigned to a pension to enter into force by this law. So there was a message in the final positions on these people. But when the bill was drafted, another article was added to the list of articles in the second reading. And so, in the final positions, they forgot to mention the article that was sent to these individuals, which concerns the Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR and the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR. Thus today there is just the wrong link in the Final Positions of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. In this regard, a proposal was made at our committee meeting to amend this law in order to correct this technical error.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, from the committee. Please, continue, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u84	I want to finish, Adam Ivanovich. I note that the adoption of these changes does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget, since the issue is already settled by the Cabinet of June 27, 2007, number 492. Please support in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u85	Thank you. From the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Anatoly Alexiyovich Horbatük, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u86	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at the meeting, held on 3 December 2008, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration No. 2565 of 26.05.2008, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suškević]] The bill proposes a change of technical character in paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions of the Act, namely, a reference to article 59, which defines the guarantees of labour rights of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, replaced by a reference to article 60, which deals with the retirement of former members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is consistent with the content of the Final Regulations. In the course of the discussion, proposals and conclusions were announced to the profile committee, representatives of the bill's author, experts from the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, representatives of the Ukrainian National Deputies in support of the bill. But at the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority noted that the adoption of these changes would increase the number of subjects whose pensions would be carried out in order and under the conditions laid down in the Ukrainian State Service Act. However, the draft does not contain any proposal to cover additional budgetary costs, as required by part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and part three of article 86 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Provisional Rules, which provides that in the case of a bill that has an impact on the expenditure or income of the state or local budgets, financial and economic justification, the calculation of the size of the expenditure and the proposals to cover these costs are added to it. In view of the fact that no cost calculations have been made to date, the committee requests the deputies to postpone the consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u88	The committee requests the deputies to postpone the consideration of the bill to a re-reading of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u89	Please, 2 "for", 2 "against". Andrew School, faction “Blok Timoshenko”. Suskewicz? Please, Suškevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u90	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I point out that there is no expansion of the circle of persons. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? The point is that this list of individuals was provided in the law. A technical error occurred. During processing, the number of the link article was wrong. Link not correctly defined. That's the first one. And the second. I point out that this is a question, a question of the circle of persons, already settled by order of the Cabinet of Ministers of June 27, 2007 at number 492. So let us pay attention to the unnecessary cost. This is all provided for by valid legislation, including the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please support in the first reading and in general. This is simply, once again, a technical error that is being corrected by the fact that the wrong link has occurred because the “Final Positions” indicated an old article that changed when changes were made to the list of articles. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Grigorovich Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u92	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Respectful colleagues who look at this law see that a change is made. It is written this way: Article 59 of this Law also extends to pensioners from the former Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR and so on. And the content of the proposed draft number 59 is replaced by 60. So to carry on, to say that for re-reading, or to take as a base, and then to second reading, it's all just a word of fornication. Either we accept this law or we do not accept it. I think we should adopt this law. And how to accept it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u93	Thank you. All those who had the desire to speak have made a statement. It's from the factions. Wait a minute. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, it is a very humane and human law. And that's where we need to support. But we also had discussions on the factions about, and the argument was in favour, and the argument was against. But also because there are certain comments from the Scientific and Expert Office, the compromise proposal is therefore proposed: to be adopted on first reading. And then take down all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, don't argue, don't argue. Chechtov's colleague is right, because there's actually some legal nuance. So let's hear it: let's take it on the first reading -- and ask for a profile committee, because the law is short enough to prepare it quickly for the second reading. I am voting on Bill No. 2565 – Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[about the article number]] Please vote. [[11:49:24]] For 291 Decision taken. There's a proposal in general, but there's only one proposal. There's a faction remark, so your offer won't go away. Well, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, I remind you of those who may not have a project right now. I thank Mikhail Chechtov for his constructive approach to the adoption of the law in the first reading. And now I remind you of the entire text of the law. In section 11, paragraph 2, “The Final Positions” about the Cabinet of Ministers, the digits 59 are replaced by the digits 60. Why? Because the bill simply moved, one article was deleted, one was added, and 60 were added. What should we do about the second reading? What's the economic justification here, what else? There's no justification. So in order for us not to waste our precious time later, and it will be more expensive than our time, I would ask for advice at the site of the Party of Regions, BUT, Communists, Block of Lithuania and Our People's Self-Defense, and I would like to make a constructive decision, to make those people who are concerned happy now, instead of the number 5960, that it's already the second reading. Thank you for understanding, if that's the case. I ask you to put the vote on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u97	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think we'll have Yuri Anatolyevich negotiate with the factions and settle this issue. But there's no big deal, because the people we're talking about, luckily, they're getting a pension. If they didn't get it, and we could help them get a pension, then you could tear your shirt off about what you should accept. And since there's no problem, they're getting pensions, so let's keep it, Yuri Anatolyevich, as you call it, legally clean. Moreover, colleague Lazko insists that we consider his law number 3237, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving State control and responsibility in the field of hunting and hunting]] Short-circuited? I'll bet you a vote. Who's in, please make up your mind. Yes, John Alexanderovich, everything about rabbits is very serious, so they cannot be considered briefly. [[11:52:05]] For-187 Please, two minutes, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u98	Draft law, respectable colleagues and honourable voters! The bill, which I am now introducing, proposes to significantly improve the state regulation in the field of hunting and hunting, to increase the responsibility of the users of hunting grounds, to improve the protection and reproduction of hunting animals, to strengthen the fight against abuses by officials in the field of hunting and hunting, by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian laws on hunting and hunting, on animal life, on the Code of Administrative Violations and on the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In particular, the amendments to the Act on Hunting and Hunting are intended to improve the position on the determination of how to obtain certificates by hunters, as well as the order in which hunting arrangements are established. Amendments to the Animal World Act are proposed to determine the order and conditions of receipt by hunters of certificates to be issued by a specially authorized authority. Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences provide for responsibility for infringements of the rules of hunting, such as hunting without permission, without appropriate documents during the hunting season for a particular type of animal, in prohibited places, in prohibited times, prohibited tools, or in ways prohibited from obtaining animals, allowing dogs to enter unsupervised hunting grounds, etc. Any illegal, without appropriate documents of attachment, storage, maintenance, transportation of live wild animals, wild birds' eggs, and transporting, or transferring derived animals or parts thereof without marking this fact in the control card of accounting. The amendments to the Criminal Code are intended to increase penalties for illegal hunting and to supplement the concept of “substantial harm” with a footnote. I ask Parliamentary colleagues to support this bill. It will significantly improve the conservation of our nature, which is our national acquisition, natural and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Head of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished ones! The Committee on Law Enforcement is working and recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a basis for the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation introduced by the National Deputies Ribuk and Ljashk. [[on improving State control and responsibility in the field of hunting and hunting]] At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had before it a draft law on the amendment of some Ukrainian legislation on hunting and hunting, protection, use and reproduction of the animal world, introduced by National Deputy Sherschun, whose position was aimed at resolving the same topics as those violated in the draft Act submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the People's Deputies of Ribuk and Lášk. [[Registration number 1154]] The draft results of his June 2009 consideration of the Supreme Council were adopted as a basis for the first reading and prepared by the committee, taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies for consideration in the second reading. [[Registration number 1154]] And in general, it was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the law of January 21, 2010, and came into force on February 16, 2010. Ukraine’s law deals in a comprehensive manner with violations of the draft law of the deputies of Rijuk and Lášk, which is why the latter has lost its relevance. Taking into account the above, based on part two of article 95 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, which states that the Supreme Council may withdraw the bill from consideration if, as a result of the adoption of other legislative acts or for other reasons, the bill has lost its relevance, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine withdraw it from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u101	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up: two in favor, two in favor. Please show me on the board. Vladimir Bondarenko. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Pudov's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u104	Boris Pudov, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I want to say that this bill, like the struggle to preserve the animal world, has not lost its relevance. Another point that has already been adopted is the legislation that deals with a number of issues that have been reflected in this bill. What I'm offering. The bill is needed in those bills passed by Shershun as well as by Jury Ribuk, and in particular, which increases the responsibility for the use of smooth weapons in poaching. Why? Because poaching has already become an epidemic. And you know very well that there is little left in our forests or fields. Why? Because the notion of those responsible for land use is confused, the old structures of the OORA, the military hunters are not effective owners. And only private farms, as well as farms, which have been created by military hunters, ensure the effective use and protection of animals. That's why I'm making a proposal. The first is that the text of the bill should be used in the further enforcement of the legislation. And the second. Strengthen the responsibility for the use of smooth weapons, which are millions of units, and so far only provide for administrative and very little responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I think you'll all agree that we need to keep order, both in hunting and hunting. We already have wild examples, even shooting people away. And the thing about animals today is that we've almost lost a bison. We are losing animals very much today. In general, the rules of hunting are being violated everywhere and always. They're not exactly responsible, because I'd say so rudely, owners of hunting grounds. They do not develop systems of action for the reproduction of hunting animals. They specialize very closely in an animal, usually a wild boar. Feeding, turning this wild animal into a half-Swiss, then standing on some tower, releasing these animals, going to meet these hunters, and they're peeling off the so-called smooth-walled weapons of these poor animals. Therefore, it is foolish that responsibility should be increased today, both in the hunting line and in the responsibility for violating the rules of farming. Of course, I understand that on the first reading, this bill should be adopted and then proved. I did not understand the position of the committee that rejected the bill. We can work it out. But in the first reading, it can be accepted. You can't get attached to formal things right now and pretend nothing's happening. Very scary things are happening. The animals are being reproduced and terrible things are happening in hunting. How do you imagine that this wild animal will win the race against the present human race? When they get on the helicopters, they take the vending machines when they go out hunting in different jeeps, they surround the neighborhoods in the woods, they look where that beast went,--if he goes to another quarter, they go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u107	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, for being persuasive. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 3237, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving State control and responsibility in the field of hunting and hunting]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:41]] For 112 The decision is not supported. Well, the committee's proposal was, in fact, honourable colleagues, the name's good, the articles are good, but there's what Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin is talking about right now. Please. Speak, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I voted against it completely consciously. Note article 22. What are we doing? If previously granted hunting arrangements by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kiev, the Sevastopol City Councils for the submission of a local authority of a special authorized central authority, there is now no need for councils, no longer the unnecessary votes of those deputies. It is now suggested that this will be decided by a specially authorized central authority of the executive branch, in agreement with local government administrations. So what are we doing? Hence, those who did not uphold this law did the right thing. Next. You're going to continue the term instead of 15 years for 20 years. How are you different from those who gave the fleet for how many years?Oh, my God! On the contrary, we need to reduce and monitor the implementation of the law. That's why the authorities belong to the councils. That's what the Constitution says. Once so, the law must be enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u109	As always, Yuri Anatolyovich is right. Dear colleagues! Baby, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u110	Oleg Lazko. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! These comments that you make can be fully developed into second reading. You can even take off the moments you're noticing right now. But let's not forget at this point that we have everything that can be destroyed: the living world, the natural world you understand. And no one is responsible for poaching or formal hunting tickets but acts as a natural poacher. This is why the main idea of the law is. And what you're talking about, let's remove it from the text of the law if it makes a note. But the main task that I'm pursuing as an author is to do everything possible for me to protect animals, plants and our world is unique Ukrainian from extinction, because five, 10 years from now our children will be out walking, they won't see the protein in the park, not the rabbit in the forest. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We have another bill with you. In accordance with the Rules, we should now announce a recess. Maybe we'll work now, we'll look at the bill and we'll move on to the "Variance" and we'll finish that. Is there any objection? And one more thing. Wait, please, Andrew, now. And one more thing. Yesterday, when the meetings were concluded, we adopted a pretty good bill to support agricultural producers. Today, the committee requests that we reconcile in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules so that we do not do this to the committee, but agree with you on the position that I will now read with you to make this a decision of the Supreme Council. It is suggested that the bill that we adopted with you yesterday at number 6317-1, which was filed by the Cabinet of Ministers, should be supplemented by such a sentence. Listen, please. To supplement Chapter VII “Final Positions” with paragraph 2 of the following content: “The sums of the value added tax accrued by the processing enterprises in accordance with Article 11, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the Law “On value added tax” from the date of entry into force of the Law “On the State Budget for Ukraine 2010” until the date of entry into force of the Act, shall not be payable to the Special Fund of the State Budget and shall be included in the taxpayers' tax liabilities in the reporting period for which the Act enters into force. At the same time, the financial penalties for non-payment of the added tax on the budget charged during such a period are not applicable to processing enterprises. So the point is that cows aren't to blame. We owe it to you. Let us vote in favour of this reconciliation. Please be supportive. [[12:07:11]] For 248 Conciliation accepted. So we're going to pass it on for the finalization of the law that we passed yesterday. Yes, please have a proposal on Bill 3295 to consider a reduced procedure. No objections? Please vote. [[12:07:43]] For 218. Decision taken. The author of the bill, draft law amending article 707 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius. [[on the legal regulation of the exchange of goods of an improper quality]] Please. Prepare for the Knyazevitch Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u112	Papuy Andry, faction of "Our Ukraine". Draft Act amending article 707 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the legal regulation of the exchange of goods of an improper quality]] The draft law proposes to amend part 1 of article 707 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which regulates the exchange of junk goods of good quality. The introduction of changes eliminates the disagreement between the general content of article 707 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on the exchange of junk goods of good quality and the term used in its first part. The product of improper quality. The disagreement between the Civil Code and the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act will also be resolved. Because there will be a possibility in the Civil Code to exchange the non-food good quality for another, regardless of the reason for the exchange. This will bring article 707 of the Civil Code into line with article 9 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. Article 708 of the Civil Code regulates the rights of buyers when selling their goods to sellers of undue quality, and article 707 deals only with the exchange of goods of good quality. To put it simply, it is only about removing the disagreements that are currently contained in the Civil Code and in the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. If the Consumer Rights Act provides for any citizen to exchange goods within two weeks regardless of the quality of the goods, in fact, in a position in the Civil Code, article 707 states that the goods can only be exchanged for improper quality. In the same way, consumer rights are limited, and this is a contradiction between one legislation and another. This is actually the question that the citizens have asked me, and a number of vendors have used this disagreement to manipulate me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u113	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u114	To manipulate the ability of, actually, buyers. So this is a simple, technical question that provides for reconciliation. There is no, unfortunately, in the Knyazevitch Hall. I mean, the profile committee supported it, and all the committees gave a positive assessment of the bill. Therefore, I ask you to vote in the first reading, in the second and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who will report from the committee? There's no report, but there's a committee decision on that. To accept it and so on. Is there a need to discuss? None. Yes. Then please write two – “for”, two – “against”. Please, Ruslan, from the committee, colleague Knyazevich, two minutes. Get Carpuku ready for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u116	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, in fact at his meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered and unanimously decided to adopt, on a basis and as a whole, the law of the People's Deputy of Paris, taking into account the circumstances which, in fact, came to be technologically wrong for me. [[No. 3295]] Since the Civil Code itself says that the proper quality of the goods should be returned during the relevant period and that the prefix “inappropriate” has been added to the first instead of the word “inappropriate”. And so now we have a situation, because manufacturers and sellers, they usually use the situation for their own benefit, and they don't want to use the general name of the article, but they're looking for the part that sets them up. That is, only in that case, if quality is inappropriate, then let's try to find compromises and exchange. And if it's the right quality, it doesn't apply to us, because you see the first part here, well, she might have made a mistake, but that doesn't apply to us. Please either correct it at the legislative level or appeal to the court. And this is an obstacle for a large number of our fellow citizens to achieve justice at least on this issue. In view of these circumstances, I believe that there is no political issue at all, and I very much hope that the session room will support this bill and vote in favour of it both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u117	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich, please, both to you and to the author, I would like to make an offer. You see, we are now replacing the word “inappropriate” with the word “appropriate”. And I would like to take two words, the "inappropriate quality" and take it all away. And then the buyer has the right to trade it for 14 days from the date of delivery of the non-food item, if the duration or time limit is not declared by the seller. So we don't say any quality of the product at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u118	Adam Ivanovich, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u119	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u120	Adam Ivanovich, there are, you know, two sides. Then the seller may say for his own reasons what the legislator meant. When we clearly write that the right quality, they're going to have to do any kind of product. And if they don't, they'll say, "Well, it's not specified there," and then we think it's an inappropriate quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u121	Okay. But I don't agree with you, because as a salesman, I would say that I'm trading you the right quality, and I'm not trading you the wrong quality. Could it be? Sure. For the time being, please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u122	I'm speaking from the committee, and that's why I'm not sounding my own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u123	Think about it, please, while the discussion is under way. I would take that word in general, two words: “inappropriate quality”. So it would be possible that any product has the right to switch to another product within 14 days and so on. Please, Karpuk. Behind him is the school. I'll give it to you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u124	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. In general, the bill is succinct, but it weighs according to the result. I think that here, really, we have to accept it in the first reading and in general, it's proposed in Andria Parovia's edition and supported by the committee. The word “inappropriate” is changed to “appropriate”, but it is possible to exchange goods for two weeks. That's why we have to, really. Because I see that now we agree that this bill will not be adopted, and those inaccuracies and disagreements will not be removed. Therefore, it must be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u125	Please, School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u126	Adam Ivanovich, Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u127	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u128	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Of course, this is a very important law. In general, all laws in the field of consumer rights are important. But, Adam Ivanovich, I point out that you there are the word “inappropriate” and “appropriate” to remove – you must also protect the right of the seller. So imagine, two weeks from now, I'm bringing in a pair of shoes that I've been walking in for two weeks, and I'm going back, and I'm going back, and so on. So there are two sides to the process, and we need to be objective. I would like to encourage my co-legislators to work in the area of consumer rights, which I have spent and continue. In my time, I was the author of the Consumer Rights Act. It's not goods anymore, it's services. And today, not only are goods of inadequacy but services of inadequacy. So we need to develop legislation here together. Today, many complain of the inadequacy of the cell phone connection as its prices rise. In particular, my personal appeals to the television operators led to their being formally written off. I get answers that don’t owe anyone anything and they don’t change anything. The same is true today of the power grid, especially in rural areas. It was five or six days later, for unknown reasons, that was turned off, and no one was responsible for providing energy. Incubators have cooled down all over Ukraine because the storms have passed, and so on. That is, there are other services that are inconceivable. And for these inadequacy services, the one who provides them should be responsible not only for the moral and ethical, but also for the material. And it's very serious, because today the level, well, if the electricity of agriculture were to increase significantly, and every time it's turned off, it's going to cost a lot of money. So I encourage my colleagues to work to protect consumers' rights. It's going to be much more relevant than some of the problems that we're looking at here, including those that don't have any effect on those whose interests we're here, in the Supreme Council we're presenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u129	Thank you. Volodymyr Dmitrovich, the point is that your proposal is in the law, that the customer's demand for exchange or return of goods is to be satisfied, if the goods were not in consumption, preserved its kind of goods, consumer properties, and for the evidence of the purchase of the goods from this seller. I mean, it's right over here. The point is that now you can only trade in non-quality goods, and they suggest that it is good. But I'm saying there's no exchange. Please, two more factions that are not. One minute at a time. Zybenko? Peanut or...? Hell of a thing, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u130	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Our faction will support this law, and indeed it must be voted in two readings. But what I'd like to pay attention to is my respectable colleagues. As I understand it, this is not about the quality of the product. In fact, we're expanding human rights. So you can not only trade in non-quality goods, you can exchange quality goods, but for some reason you've stopped liking this product, well, and so on and so forth. So it's about expanding human rights. And I think that's perfectly normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u131	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I think we should note the constructive work of the entire Parliament this week. And we see how a floating philosophy of work is established, and it's not who gives, it's not a faction, it's what's in the content. Therefore, we support the colleague of Peru for introducing the law today. The only thing, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to be very careful with such laws. As people's deputies, we protect the interests of citizens, and citizens, they stand on both sides of the bench. And on the side of the counter where the sellers are, we have 11 million, so we have to understand clearly that if we write down what you're proposing right now, we can form a group of buyers who use the goods for 12 days. Therefore, this cannot be allowed, everything needs to be done in a balanced, peaceful manner, taking into account world practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u133	What is the world’s practice? Yes, please, Andrew, and we'll figure it out. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u134	Respectable Society! I'd like to ask two questions that sounded like very clear answers. Please listen carefully, the first observation that seems to be right, as the conductor said, is that it is not necessary to indicate the words of proper quality. So I want to inform you that in the Civil Code a separate article 708 regulates the issue of goods of improper quality. That is, it is distributed in various articles; article 708 regulates what is done with goods of improper quality; article 707 deals exclusively with goods of good quality. Therefore, there is no need to make any changes, and the Civil Code also provides for an inappropriate version of the right quality. There are no contradictions or misunderstandings. For those who fear that people will take the goods for 12 days and then return, I emphasize the last paragraph of article 707. The purchaser’s demand for exchange or return of goods is to be satisfied if the goods were not in consumption, preserved their appearance, consumer properties, and evidence of the purchase of the goods from the seller.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u135	Thank you, finish, but I've already read this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u136	Actually, if you take a 12-day tape recorder and you scratch it along the way, you'll never get it back. There's a warning. I propose, I'm very glad that such a lively discussion was brought up by this bill, but I think I answered all the questions. And once again, I ask you to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u137	The author's will, the author's will. But once again, now in 707 articles we are talking about the product of improper quality. The word “inappropriate ” is changed to“ due. ” Then the “inappropriate ” will not be exchanged. But if you want, we'll come back with you after that. I would be willing to vote on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending article 707 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, number 3295. [[on the legal regulation of the exchange of goods of good quality]] Please vote. First? In general, we vote. [[12:22:19]] For 310 The law was passed in general as a law. Dear colleagues! So you and I have fully implemented the agenda for today. I must say that perhaps for the first time in the last two years, at the end of Friday, I see the number of national deputies that is now in the session room. And it's very happy, it's very happy. Please, the hour of the various performances. Please sign up. So please show me on the board, find out who's behind whom. Dmitri Schlemko. Get ready for the Horn. I can't see the helmet. Is it? Yes, you're passing it on to someone? Terrence, please, Taran-Terren, behind him is Upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u138	Dmitri Vasilovich Schlemko, thank you! Dear friends! Every country has its own ideology. For example, it was its ideology and remained in the Baltic countries. These were European standards, countries didn't join any SND, they took a course for Europe, and today they have, say, an average pension of about 600 to 800 euros. This is Lithuania, Latvia. Well, let's say there's an ideology in Russia. This is the construction of a large, powerful, indivisible Russia. There's ideology in Ukraine too. But I think it's too bad that this is the ideology of double standards and I'm sorry, ideology, even hypocrisy. Like what? In the elections, the Party of Regions promised to improve people’s lives. I made a very good promise. But only yesterday, five laws were enacted that would improve people's lives with their own hands, with the hands of the Party of Regions, including those that had not been adopted for the first time in 20 years, no decision had been taken on the Chernobyls. Well, for example, the Party of the Regions promised that an hourly payment would be introduced. Very good. And finally, we're going to find out that the Cabinet of Ministers' decision actually introduced it, but that's 5 bracelets to know what the hourly pay is going to be. For example, once again there was a promise of harmony in society, peace, understanding between the opposition, and today everything is being done to put the opposition leader Yulia Volodymyrný Timoshenko back in prison. For what? For what she wanted, I emphasize, was not giving, but she wanted to give bribes to a judge or someone else. Is there any such norm in the world that it seemed to have had such a purpose, but it wasn't done and it wasn't done at all, but please, let's just say, in prison, because she's the leader of the opposition. And at the same time, everything Ukrainian will be destroyed. And, let's say, the sad minister of education is trying to make history not only in Ukraine, but also abroad. And it's already agreed that a history book will be published, which will be written in Kiev and Moscow. Where in the world such a possibility is possible, for example, that the history of France is written not only in Paris but also in Berlin. Or, for example, China’s history not only in Beijing but also in Tokyo. Well, of course, the Communists are clearly the primary here. For example, they say that they protect people’s rights and all of this is very good, and it seems that Stalin’s monument was built at the expense of the pensioners. My dears, I have already spoken here in this room, read the newspaper "The newspaper in Ukrainian". And we see Simonck's wealth, in which more than one hectare of land, whose house is called a church, is so large and luxurious. So why don't you build it at his expense! However, he was lucky because if he had lived with Stalin, he would have just been blown to pieces. I would very much like us to be citizens, not political lochotron subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u139	Yes. There's no loft in the room. Please, Gorina gave Glazunov the word. Get ready. I can't see Zivago either, Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a question that directly depends on our country's reputation and which requires the immediate search for the funds used by the previous Kabmin, not for the purpose. You know, back in 2004, Ukraine ratified the Kyoto Protocol and became 121 countries that agreed to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. At the same time, we were given the right to trade in the difference between the quota given and the actual discards made by Ukraine. Thus, we have had an exceptional opportunity to receive the real money needed for our economy to modernize production. Within the framework of the Kyoto Treaty, the government of Yulia Timoshenko began working with quota sales in March last year. Ukraine then sold 30 million of its quotas to Japan for carbon dioxide emissions. As a result, we received $585 million, of which $375 million was paid in cash, and the amount that was left was to be spent on special equipment. After receiving funding, the Ukrainian National Environmental Investment Agency announced a competition among state and municipal enterprises for a better environmental project. However, the contest was not completed, and the funds received from Japan disappeared in an unknown direction. Moreover, in December 2009, at the Copenhagen summit on climate change, Kyiv refused to provide information on the cost of selling quotas under the Kyoto Agreement. At all requests, Ukrainian delegates responded by refusing to disclose this information, referring to the confidentiality of the information. Clearly, the whole world has been struck by such behavior in Ukraine and it is clear that such conduct does not honor us. So I remind you. That a Kyoto group will soon arrive in Ukraine to verify the use of the funds received. And we don't have any environmental projects today. The money received by Julia Timoshenko from selling quotas is not available in Ukraine’s sole treasury account. And if this money is found to have been spent on purpose, Ukraine will have to return it. Such a risk is unnecessary in today’s realities. And that's even more of a victory if the question was only about money. Ukraine’s lack of commitment makes it questionable to sign similar agreements in the future. And this is because Ukraine was the first country in the world to provide Japan with the most acceptable conditions for purchasing quotas, bypassing Hungary, Latvia, Romania, and the Czech Republic. We have enormous potential in this sector, and the previous Kabin has made every effort to destroy it. I offer to think together about the solution to this problem, and first of all, I am looking for money lost by Kabmin Timoshenko, who, as the Ukrainian proverb says, did not have to lend his eyes to the Kyoto group and to the world society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u141	Yes, thank you. Kovalova, who is to perform now, should also be speaking, which is now the ninth to pass on her word to Samofal, please for 6 minutes. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! Respectable tellers! Respected Radio Hearers!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u143	They came to me. Leave the notes, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u144	In recent times, there have been a great deal of provisions in the Hall on the interests of the State, on national security and on the betrayal of national interests. I'd like to talk about this a little bit today. This is the national interests of European States, and I will give you one example. I was a member of the Committee for European Integration. We were presented with the scrap metal export law. Would it seem like a law? I asked the question: Please tell me, where in Europe is such a law? No, she's in Finland alone, but she doesn't do exports either. We were forced to pass this law. And today we give our copper for three kopecks, lead for three kopecks, and so on and so forth, and we get it in return in the form of finished products. It's a hundred times more expensive. This is the protection of the interests of the State, the protection of the interests of citizens in Europe. I think that when it comes to our pipeline, 4,000 kilometers, they probably thought that someday there would be gas pipelines around Ukraine, 4,000 kilometers of this pipeline would be cut into metal, and for three kegs we'd put them there. Now what do I mean by the interests of the State and national security? We have adopted this document with you: the Constitution of Ukraine is the Law of the Basic State. Article 3 clearly states: “People, their lives and health, honour and dignity, integrity and security are recognized as the highest social value in Ukraine. The State is responsible to a person for its activities. The establishment and safeguarding of human rights and freedoms is the primary duty of the State.” That is, the main national interest is man. What's going on with you today? Last year, 860,000 Ukrainian citizens died in Ukraine. Think about it! Only 400,000 were born. I have the data provided by the Ministry of Health, which says that mortality in Ukraine is twice as high as in European States and four times as high as in workers. Is that not the betrayal of the national interests of the State of the past Government? Second. The Constitution says that. Article 48 states: “Everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family, including adequate food, clothing, housing”. And I'm asking a question. Here are United Nations experts ten days ago: 78 per cent of Ukrainian citizens live below the poverty line. Is this not a betrayal of national interests that the Government has allowed in the past? They also concluded that in the past, Ukrainian citizens'living standards had decreased by 10 per cent compared to those in the past. This is where we need to look at the interests of the State and the interests of the citizens. Because there's only one person in life. The Constitution stipulates that the 17th provides social protection for Ukrainian citizens who are serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations as well as members of their families. I'm reporting to you that today the family of an officer with 10 years of service who lives on duty and carries regular combat duty, and his wife doesn't work because there's 2,000 bracelets to work somewhere, two kids. Divide by 4. The family is living below the poverty line! They're the people who have to give their lives if they have to, for you and me! But, above all, what are they going to give up their lives for?Oh, my God! Because the family's gonna be hungry later? Among other things, we give our children and grandchildren to serve in the army, and they have to raise them, train them. They don't have to do this today. That is why I think that this is also one of the issues related to national security. We're talking about medicine today. Everyone has the right to normal treatment. I'm a member of the Health Committee. I came there, I'm not a medic, I was terrified we had something going on in Ukraine! Today we have Ukrainians buying drugs six times more expensive than in Europe! Today, we have firms who are unconscionable who buy drugs 20 times more expensive than they can be bought. Last January, our member of the Korz Party of the Regions, Viktor Petrovich, published an article in the Ukrainian Truth that they bought a shipment of medicines from Ukraine – 117 grevens, Moldova immediately, the same producer – 10 and Romania – 6. What's that called? Where's the government? Where's the Power? That's where the real betrayal of national interests is! And you'll see what these firms are doing? We have a report, which means that our House of Auditors is in charge of medical purchases for 2008-2009. They bought $326 million worth of equipment that's been rolling in warehouses for two years! The money's taken, it's not working, and what happens to her now, you can see for yourself who's learning a little bit about it. And the last. To make it clear what the protection of national interests is. We have the flag of our chemical industry, Suchiimprom. It's an enterprise that produces phosphate fertilizers. The last government led them to receive $330 gas for a thousand cubes, and before that, $70. All the fertilizers used to go to the country, and now they're going to Latin America, Canada, and to the gram. 6 per cent was given to our village last year alone. Today, the Government of Azarov has adopted to assist the financial enterprise to start producing and handing it over to the country. By the way, wages in relation to:
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u145	Thank you. Please sit down for six minutes. Next Friday we will give you the opportunity. Mikola Kulczynski, please. Next Ostenko, I can't see. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen of the national constituencies, my address is to our colleague of the national MP for the first time, Gudimi Alexander, who is an honorary citizen of the city of Lucca, the MP for the first time. Why would I want to quote him? Because what he's writing about is worth hearing from all of Ukraine's citizens. What is it? It's about action, peaceful action, protest against illegal blockage in Kiev on the bulvar forest of Ukraine number 10. The people who live there because the decision of Kyivrada about the construction was not in place, and the construction of the fence was illegal, people went out to figure it out. And what happens is what Alexander Vasilovich Goodima writes: “All public action in which I take part always takes place officially, according to the law. There's a police force at all times. Every step I take from March 1, 2010, since the arbitrary installation of the fence near house number 9 on the Forest Ukraine Boulevard until March 14 is marked by official measures registered in Kyivrad. On March 14th, the police arrived at 11:50 p.m. from the beginning of the set. I was shown a message to the Major's wife. Without presenting or indicating in any way the reasons unknown, the police and the Special Forces knocked me off my feet, grabbed my hands and legs, beating and suppressing me, dragged me away, and that was in broad daylight. Pushed and beat Grandma. My grandmothers, passersby, women, and drivers saved me. I was held in the car by a grip on my neck from behind, and I was suffocating. Then we decided, he writes, to go to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for a boulevard to take the bus. At the store “Intertop”, we are about 15 people, an attack was again carried out. I was kicked off my feet again, so they pulled me up, handcuffed me, put me in the car, put my grandmother on the face of the asphalt, and the women were just dragging. I had two men in my car, one of whom repeatedly beat me in the face. My wife was thrown down in the car face. And so on, the beatings, the beatings, the beatings, the beatings. So I want to ask today's minister, it was for the former minister, for today's interior minister. Whom does the police serve? To whom do specnas, berkutt, and all other organs serve? Do they protect the legitimate interests of citizens or those who make illegal construction? I ask that the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General and remember, in this regard, article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the authorities and their officials are bound to act only.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u147	And within the Constitution. Thank you. Please, Popescu Ivan Vasilovich. Get ready for Vyziewski. You're not far away, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u148	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, today I will not misuse time and try to be as precise and concise as possible. Dear colleagues, we know that Ukraine is under the control of the Council of Europe. One of our commitments to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is the implementation of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. But unfortunately, even though we ratified the charter, in the previous government, the mechanism of implementation was not approved in the form of organic laws. I want to point out that the political will of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, both in the government and in the coalition, is there. Therefore, certain steps need to be taken now without waiting for appropriate laws to be adopted, since the adoption of the law and its drafting take time. And then I'm going to the heads of the district education authorities of those regions where national or linguistic minorities make up at least 10 percent of the population of the appropriate administrative and territorial unit, so as to anticipate, as of September 1, 2010, that the schools should be equipped with appropriate language learning in public educational institutions at all levels, at appropriate territorial units of educational institutions. Please take this process under personal control by the district authorities. I would like to point out that there is no additional budgetary burden on this process, because where these languages are not yet studied, this can be done on the basis of a variable portion of the curriculum. And so we will take a real step towards fulfilling our commitments to the Council of Europe. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Viziewski. Prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u150	Dear Ukrainians, the Civil Constitutional Council of the Office of the Ukrainian Club addresses all informed Ukrainian citizens, all Ukrainians by blood, all Ukrainians by spirit. The Ukrainian nation faces a real threat to the loss of a Ukrainian independent, constituency, democratic state. Ukrainian patriots note that two major conquests, elected by Ukrainians -- informed citizens of Ukraine in 2004 -- dignity and the right to choose -- have been abolished by the rematching and occupation authorities. It has diverted the global and political situation in the country to the time of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, and Russia, the Russian idea, the Russian interests and the Russian future are the key to it. Accordingly, Ukraine must become Malorósia with all the appropriate results. It should be noted that Ukraine has already done so many times in its history, beginning with its mates in Kiev and ending with the fascist and Bolshevik occupations. The members of the Public Advisory Council said that 50 days President Yanukovic showed the Ukrainian nation that it was a power of rematch and occupation, formed into an independent one. In an illegal way, Russian-Russian identity carriers. In violation of the 5th, 11th and 83rd articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, President Janukovic, in fact, assumed the mandate of the guarantor of the Constitution, by violating article 17 and article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine, President of Ukraine, in fact, assumed the authority of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The Ukrainian people are then entitled to direct action to ensure the protection and enforcement of article 5 of the valid Constitution of Ukraine. The government tries to speak to the Ukrainian nation in power, forgetting that power is in the truth. Why is today's Renaissance-occupational power acting like this? They are frightened by the Ukrainian identity, by the hostile Ukrainian history, by the eyes of Ukrainian heroes who have laid down their lives for the Ukrainian national state. They are hurt by the Ukrainian language, which is the only language of the Ukrainian nation, and they hate the Ukrainian future because they have no place in it. Every Ukrainian has to realize one simple truth: freedom — if they don't think for you — independence — when they don't pay for you. Every Ukrainian, a well-known Ukrainian citizen, must realize that the nation is a dignity. A Ukrainian citizen of Ukraine wants to deprive him of what he has from birth: Ukrainian identities, nations, nations, lands, spiritual gravity, faith, decent life, security, language, freedom of choice for the future. It was that call that caused an extremely active response from the authorities, and it was the Ukrainian club that was being threatened by telephone calls from the Cabinet of Ministers, directly from the Cabinet of Ministers, Anatoly Tolstouchov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u151	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko. Prepare Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u152	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The new authorities have demonstrated some trends in their activities over a rather short period of time, and they are interesting today. If today, by listening to the decision on the work of the commission to study the situation in the machinery sector of Ukraine, in particular agricultural construction, we have learned that the Yanukovich government in the previous chambers has opened locks for destruction, in fact, the Kharkiv Tractor, the Herson Combin factory, the Kirovograd factories and so on. So today we see that whole sectors of the boilers are disappearing, called interstate holdings, where Ukraine has much smaller percentages than Russia, there is management, there is definitely Russian. It's a new trend, interesting, it's an increase in the direction that was before. The new authorities have also started repression with regard to the press. You know what two TV channels are saying about direct censorship. The new authorities demonstrated exactly the same attitude as in 2004, or worse, with regard to the implementation of article 33-34 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantees the free movement of Ukrainian citizens in their territory and the right to meetings without weapons. Thus, the political - motivated police warned all carriers not to go to Kiev or to run them at all the crossings of Ukraine. This continues in other directions, and this is particularly true of ordinary citizens. But I would like to pay attention to the direct repression of the leader of the opposition. They pulled out a "dead cat", a case in 2003 that Kuchma tried to pull and today they're jerking off a leader, thus blackmailing everyone who has a free word so that they don't say it. I don't think any of this is going to work out, all of this activity, it's completely hopeless, it's not going to bring you fame. I would suggest that you do what the government of Yulia Volodymyrna did, particularly the drafting of legislation in the area of housing and utilities. I represent the opposition government that deals with this problem, and I can tell you, there are extremely interesting documents developed by the past government, and today we support, we will submit it to the opposition government. They relate primarily to the relationship in the field of LHC. In particular, we need to know who provides the services, we need to understand clearly who accepts them, and we need a contract between them. There's no such thing today. We need to know the quality of our services and who will be responsible for their failure to provide them or for their inadequacy. That's what the legislation is all about. I think we've taken very serious steps there in the field of energy conservation, which is extremely important to us. So today, when we talk about what the government should do, it is certainly not by digging in old underwear, especially the past decade, but by constructive work. So far we don't see any steps in the design. And I'd like to call for work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u153	Thank you. Edward Pavlovenko. Prepare Tarasyuk. And after Taraszuk there will be a Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u154	Edward Pavlenko, Party of Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! For Ukraine, where today more than 100,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care remain a pressing problem of inter-State adoption. In accordance with current legislation, it must be implemented in exceptional cases only after all possibilities for finding a child's family in the Parenthood have been exhausted, as required by article 21 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. A total of 3,000,807 children were adopted in 2009. Of these, 1,426 Ukrainian children were adopted by foreign nationals, accounting for almost 40 percent of the adopted children. Despite the fact that Ukrainian children adopted by foreigners before they reach adulthood are still citizens of Ukraine, according to current legislation. In practice, the State does not ensure that their rights are respected. The neighbouring Russia has already suspended the adoption by U.S. citizens of the adoption agreement. Because 17 Russian children died at the hands of American adoptive parents. And at the beginning of April this year, the American adoptive mother of 8-year-old Artem on the plane herself, just as a package, sent her to Moscow. In his time, China stopped adopting its children into the United States, demanding, or a treaty, strict control over the rights of adoption, or the cessation of adoption. The United States signed such a treaty with China. I believe that only the conclusion of bilateral agreements with the countries where Ukrainian children are most adopted will enable proper control over their rights. It is therefore necessary to expedite the consideration of the draft amendment and additions to article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the moratorium on the adoption by foreigners of children from Ukraine. Registration number 4313. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u155	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, prepare the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u156	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine Respectful Ukrainian voters, the latest statements and actions of today’s anti-government authorities are impressive not only by their cynicism but also undermine the foundations of Ukrainian statehood and democracy. Not only has the recent statements of the Minister of Interior of Mohilov, who set out to profane the honor of Ukrainian national heroes and to compare the crimes of the political prisoner, the leader of the People’s Movement of Viacheslav Crnovola, and the criminal crimes of Yanukovich. Despite his claim to be absent in the Soviet era of political prisoners, Mohilov took the liberty of cynically classifying the crimes of Viktor Yanukovic as political repression at that time. In his words, Mohilov, first of all, testified to his favor with the repressive methods of the communist era, secondly, confirmed the policy of the current anti-State authority to abuse the memory of real heroes of Ukraine, thirdly humiliated millions of Ukrainian citizens, for whom Vijacheslav Crnovil is a herald of spiritual freedom, a symbol of a fighter for Ukraine's independence and, fourthly, demonstrated that black is white and vice versa. This is no longer the first time that the current headmaster of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is allowing himself such verbal discharges. Yesterday he justified Stalin’s activities, including the deportation of Crimea Tatars from Crimea. Yesterday he suggested that the opposition be evicted in the area of Kiev. Today, he is politically charged with higher criminal charges than the political sentences of Viacheslav Cnervol. What happens tomorrow?Oh, my God! Recent events in Ukraine have demonstrated that Mogilov is turning the IMF into a repressive machine to suppress political opponents. This is exactly what Viacheslav Cnervill fought against. Is that not why the Minister of Internal Affairs is so intently pounding on the memory of the leader of the Movement, falsifying historical truth? There is increasing reason to believe that the harsh reaction of law enforcement authorities to numerous opposition events is merely a rehearsal before the actual declaration of war to Ukrainian citizens, to Ukrainian society. The National Movement of Ukraine condemns the actions and statements of the Minister of Internal Affairs, Anatoly Mogilov, and demands that the Supreme Council of Ukraine resign him. Otherwise, ignoring our demands will be seen as further evidence of the anti - Ukrainian authorities of today. We will not allow the honor of the heroes of Ukraine to be tarnished, including Viacheslava Cnerovola and our nation as a whole. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u157	Ivan Hare, please. Get ready for Jaroszuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u158	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Tomorrow, May 15, 20 years old, the Supreme Council of the First Call began its work. Since then, the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism has begun. The public expected that the Supreme Council would respond to this event, with the proposal to commemorate this Jubilee. The Head of Parliament, Lithuania, was approached by an association of Ukrainian national deputies. There was no answer — neither oral nor written — for this very important initiative from Parliament's leadership. I'm going to point out that marking such a Jubilee is a common practice for the new states that have embarked on the path of democracy. As an MP, I've been thinking a lot about why the current parliament didn't want to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Ukrainian parliamentaryism? And he came to such disheartening conclusions. Parliament’s current leadership, the ruling parliamentary majority, feared this distinction because the first parliament and the present one would have to be compared. Clearly, such a comparison was not in the favor of the existing Supreme Council, to say the least. The current MPs of the majority simply did not want to look into the eyes of those deputies who had initiated Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Those first parliaments in their majority were statesmen, not petty politicians. They declared Ukraine independent and started Ukrainian statehood and democracy. They have worked hard to ensure that these geopolitical changes take place peacefully. Now, the ruling majority, together with the President and the government, are doing everything they can to devastate, deukrainize and de-Europeanize Ukraine. Not only did the calibre of MPs change, but the nature of the MP’s mandate changed. The deputies ceased to be servants of the people, and they became ministers of petty chieftains and holders of large wallets. The very nature of parliamentaryism has not changed for the better. If the Supreme Council of the First Council was the main site for the making of political decisions in the country, things are now being done as they were in Soviet times. Many decisions that are important to the people are made in a culinary way, not only outside Parliament’s structures but in a foreign capital. And in this room, only the decisions are printed by the hand of one of the leaders of the Party of Regions. But in normal democratic countries, such a jubilee is used to demonstrate the rule of law, a generation of politicians, as an opportunity for young politicians to thank their predecessors for their contribution to the nation's nation's rule of law, to listen to the thoughts and advice of the founding parents of the state. I want to apologize for the leadership of the Supreme Council, for the national MPs of most people, for not wanting to do their political and moral duty. I welcome the MPs of the first call, particularly the deputies of the People's Council with the 20-year anniversary of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. You were great men and you were made in great times. What is now being done in the Supreme Council by the MPs is a temporary phenomenon. Ukrainian Parliamentarianism will undoubtedly gain Ukrainian and European meaning. I had to read the decision of the Council of Agricultural Cooperatives. I'll do it later. I apologize for the people who asked me to make that statement, but I have a statement about parliamentaryism today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u159	Ivan Alexanderovich, I will look you in the eye. Because you're saying we're afraid to look into the eyes of the first call. Yes, please, Vladimir Jaroschuk. Prepare Orestus Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u160	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I am authorized to make a statement from a group of Ukrainian national deputies representing various factions of Parliament who are concerned about the situation in the area of land relations in Kiev and Kiev, namely, the illegal removal of more than 200 hectares of land located in the territory of Kiev. This is the island of Muromac, which is located between the two sleeping areas of Kiev Obolonia and Troastina near the Moscow Bridge. Muromac Island is part of the Dniprovsky Park, which stretches along all of Kiev and has a reserve area that needs protection. As early as the fifth century C.E., Muromatz and Truhans, longtime fishermen, moved into the city. But don’t be surprised, it hasn’t been Kiev since. So I say that we will initiate in the shortest possible time the creation of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will determine all the circumstances of the occupation of the Brovarski RDA and the central and local authorities of the State Committee, which resulted in the removal of more than 200 hectares of agricultural land within the centre of the right-wing district of Kiev in Kiev in Kiev, and which currently have a legitimate user – the New Ukraine Agriculture Society. In our opinion, such a brilliant land-management operation could not have been carried out without the full promotion of the leadership chain of the State of Ukraine, which today is headed by Kulinič Oleg Mikolaiovich, whose scandalous activities did not prevent him from holding back even after the change of government. We believe that the head of the Brovarski RDA, who issued appropriate orders on the basis of which more than 200 hectares of land were annexed to Kiev, was appointed head of the administration of the State Committee in the Brovarsky region after his release. In fact, 200 acres [200 ha] of Kyiv land, with legal users, has been unlawfully removed and divided, think only of the hundreds of inhabitants of various parts of Ukraine, who, as if on these lands, should be engaged in private farming. Sadly, we often have to face the consequences of ignoring the law in the land. But I have never seen such insolent violation of the law. It's not enough that it's the land of the capital, it's an island, and it's part of the Water Fund. Ukraine’s Water Code, Ukraine’s Land Code, expressly prohibits private property on the islands. There aren't that many left on Dniper. Now one of them wants to build houses, before he steals from the capital. We believe that the interim commission of inquiry should begin the process of establishing a system of land relations, as well as bring to its senses both by Djrzcomem and its leader, Mr. Kulinić. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Oreste Mutz. Get ready for the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u162	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. The opposition political forces that joined the country’s so - called defence committee or claimed its support this week have no moral right to call themselves Ukraine’s advocates. After 5 years of government rule, the previous power, which is today’s opposition, has demonstrated that the protection of national interests, in its sense, is the leading of the Ukrainian people to poverty. What independence of our nation could be discussed under such conditions? The activity of today’s opponents, and for the time being, is disguised under an up-to-date political sign and failed attempts to organize new venues, it is further deceiving people in order to keep their votes in future elections to local councils. We'll see the same difference between so-called defenders that were already among the orange leaders. Yes, the leader of one of the opposition forces has already complained in the press that in the areas of the Ukrainian Defence Committee, they're trying to create just under July. I would advise the Ternopil opposition, including the leaders and representatives of local governments, to focus on issues related to the filling of the district budget. By improving the lives of the inhabitants of the country and restoring its economy, not by seducing the poor with hundreds of coins for a rally. As we know, a budget for the Ternopil region was adopted yesterday. This budget is funded by only 21 percent. The other 79 percent is subsidies, it's aid from the center. One reason is that the opposition factions of the Ternopils, which do not make up the majority, give enough session hours to discuss political developments in countries, not to address socio-economic problems in the area. So on April 27 of this year, instead of working in countries, one of the opposition factions of the Ternopil shell held a sessionary meeting of a purely political nature in the capital near parliament. What protection of interests in the area can be discussed in this case? As for the real defenders of Ukraine's national interests, people have already come to realize that they are President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, the government that heads the Mikola Azarov Party of Regions, and the parliamentary majority is a coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, fellow countrymen, have almost left Western Ukraine and do not quarrel. Schmellow passed the word to King’s Landing, and he has the opportunity to speak. So please, six minutes. Get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u164	Respectable voters, respected Ukrainian people's deputies, veterans and heirs of the winners! On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, the leader of the Company of Ukraine, Peter Simonenko, allow me to congratulate you on the coming Day of the Great Victory. You know, you were surprised at the beginning of this plenary week when the last one ended that, apart from Peter Simonenko, no national MP congratulated the veterans on this anniversary with such a great and significant event for our entire country, for every Ukrainian, any of them from Donetsk, anything from Lviv. This year, another landmark event took place — the established Stability and Reform coalition of the Party of the Regions, the Company of Ukraine and the Litvina Block allowed orange, nationalist, neo-fascist mud to be placed in the political arena. Years of sadness and discord have taken place. The coalition was able to melt the ice of mistrust between the brotherly peoples of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and other peoples of ex-USSR. The grandchildren and great-grandkids of the winners whose grandfathers and ancestors fought the fascist plague against the Fascist Gadina, regardless of their colour, religion and nationality: and the Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, they said, Georgians, Moldova, Jews and other nationalities once again took up arms and realized that we had a common victory and a common history. It is much closer to us than the philosophy of the North Atlantic, and our mentality is different from that of the cowboy and the individualist. We took the code locks off our parade door again. The coalition was able to lift the tension in the Crimea. That's the second problem. Yeah, just take it off. The fifth column of the “rooted Ukrainian” grants from Canada and the United States is still at stake and will continuously try to expand the situation in our country through its investors, including the parliamentary ones. So the solution to the problem with the Black Sea fleet is to remove the opposition to the Crimea. Our grandfathers in Navy form in the 1940s and could not have imagined that their grandchildren would have a more desirable partner than a swordsman who had completed a neighbouring seafaring. The Black Sea fleet will once again be a guarantee of security for Ukraine and Russia in the Black Sea Basin. Even NATO headquarters agreed. But there is only one thing left to tell their children how great their greed and stealthiness were, that in 19 years of independence they were unable to buy the battery for the only submarine in Ukraine, Zaporezec. They say they stayed in the embroidery, but with a bare back. The coalition was able to carry out another important task, which is paragraph 2 of the agreement between the Compartium of Ukraine and the Party of the Regions signed by the leader of the CPU, Peter Simonenko and Viktor Yanukovic, to protect the truth of history. We have launched a unified training programme on history with the great academic minds of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. There will never again be an heresy in our country at the official level, which has been sounded in the canon of the Great Victory by the Executive Director of the archive of the BSS, the servant of Yushchenka and the soldiers of the UPA Vetrović. Do you know what he said? That the Great Homeland War is a myth invented by owls. Now, this neogebelish will only be told by Vetrović in the midst of his visitors, like weeds, And others with them. You know, on the eve of Victory Day, I went along with my comrades to lay flowers on the monument of Mother Mother's Family. And the monument stopped the bus, so I won't tell the numbers to any region, and the kids jumped out. And when they started pointing their finger at my mother's family, I heard a terrible thing that they said, "Look, you're hot!" Do you have any idea what we're turning our generation into?Oh, my God! My son is 14 years old. And if we hadn't stopped the Nazis, they would have inspired every one of our children. Here's a second example. A journalist from the Fifth Channel interviewed Stalin’s monument in Ukraine in the context of the conversation focused on the worship of the individual. Well, first of all, my personal position: there was a cult, but there was a personality. Secondly, the meeting of the Company of Ukraine has already assessed these developments. And most importantly, when the interview was over, I thought to myself, and then I asked her, "If God forbid, war with the fascists today, or if we move the machine back in time and pretend that there's no Stalin and head, for example, one of the presidents of today is Kravczuk." You know, I'd drink our victory and our country, to hell with the mother in some Bellevue. And if God had not given him, he would have given up the land on the first day. Therefore, we are sure that Stalin would not have been – there would have been no victory. It is as the generalissimus of the army, the country and the people who have defeated fascism and saved the world from the “Cortic plague” that we consider Stalin's role in history as equals the military leaders who fought for our future, for our countries, for our cities: Malinovsky, Zukov, Tolbuhin, Vatutin, Konev, Jeremenko and many others. For the first time in years, we have noted this great anniversary with dignity. Military parades in the cities of Kiev, Odessa, Kerchi, Sevastopol. The red flags at the initiative of the faction of the Company of Ukraine in our cities. Lessons of courage and concerts for veterans in schools. And it's a pleasure. And all the hate that fought on the flag in Lviv on Victory Day just finally ripped off the patriot masks and, like, their ancestors coming out of the shelters, showed their true faces and their actions showed that they were Hitler's heirs. That is why it is a day of mourning for them. Veterans of the Great Homeland War, soldiers and officers of the Soviet Army did all they could. We, the successors of the winners, the representatives of the Company of Ukraine, are obliged to do our utmost to preserve history and preserve the outcome of this victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Peter Volodymyrovich Melnik. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u166	Thank you. Peter Melnik, Party of Regions, Kiev Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, why was there so much smoke in our country's parliament on April 27? Smoke is not always an accident. I only want to make two efforts in my speech. What are my reasons? Well, first of all, this is the day Parliament adopted the budget. A budget that the State had been waiting for four months. This was not the case at all with Ukraine entering the new financial year without a budget. I want to remind you that the budget deficit in 2009 was 16 percent, and the budget deficit in 2010 approved by Parliament was 5 percent. That's almost three times the difference. I want to remind you that this budget is really not very good, but it can't be good, because the financial pit in which the country is located is very deep. I inform you, honourable voters, that 50.7 billion dollars at the end of 2009 is a surplus of the unpaid tax on the added value declared by taxpayers. I want to say that in the bank's payroll accounts, including 21.8 billion dollars, I want to remind you that underfunded preparations for the Euro-2012 launch in Ukraine for 4.6 billion dollars in 2009. During 2009, 16 billion dollars were loaned to the Pension Fund to cover temporary cash breaks related to the payment of pensions. I would like to remind you that unfulfilled obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, which was ratified by Parliament in 2004, to fulfil obligations regarding discards and their use, these emissions that are harmful to the atmosphere. I can continue to call others figures, such as that Ukraine was rejected for its domestic gross product by 2003. Rejected after the decline of production until 2005. These are serious problems that need to be resolved seriously together. I could talk about another.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u167	Thank you, Peter Volodymyrovich, say next Friday. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin He'll be followed by Good Guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! On behalf of the Party of Protectors of Motherland, which is a parliamentary party, I call for an end to the politics of double standards, political persecution and political provocations in the state! I would like to remind you that the criminal case, which is being resuscitated against the political leader of the opposition of Yulia Timoshenko, has been suspended, more than that, by the four professional committees of the Supreme Council on legal policy issues, on the issue of the fight against crime and corruption, on the Committee on Legislative Security and on the Rules Committee, has clearly qualified the submission of Timoshenko as the execution of a political order for the purpose of discrediting the leader of the BUT Faction. According to those committees, the submission does not contain any evidence of Timoshenko’s guilt and is unprecedentedly illiterate and absurd from a legal point of view. The MPs, I remind you, then concluded that the submission shows that there are signs of crime in the actions of the officials of the Attorney General's Office, provided for in article 372 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, that the prosecution of a criminally innocent person with artificially created evidence of acquittal. I'm asking Attorney General Medvedjk today, where is the criminal case against the individuals involved? There's no such thing as a criminal case. Then I ask, where are the criminal cases that we've been looking at today, where 19 factories worth about two “Crevices” have been handed over for imaginary money because no one has received anything. I remind you that the Prime Minister was first Kinakh and then Janukovich was at the time of all of this. So let's move away from double standards. Society is now awaiting and the opposition is deciding what to do when the President of the friendly Russian Federation arrives. We welcome the arrival, we welcome the President himself, but we would like to remind our President Yanukovic of the existence of the Ukrainian National Security Act. I would like the Russian Embassy in Ukraine to send the text of this law and to Dmitri Medvedev. May Dmitry Medvedev know that under our Constitution, the threat of attacks by individuals on State sovereignty, territorial integrity, is a threat to national interests and security. May the President and Prime Minister also mention that violations by the authorities and local authorities of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, human and civil rights and freedoms are also a threat to Ukraine’s national interests and national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u169	Thank you. Eugene Good. Prepare Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u170	Good boy, Timoshenko Street. I would like to touch upon a very important and serious issue -- this is the question of finding Russian special forces in Ukraine, in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in connection with the establishment of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. The Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation do not provide for the work of special services of foreign states, including military counterintelligence units in Ukraine. Since this issue directly affects national security issues, such as the security of Ukraine’s national sovereignty. In reality, however, new agreements have been made with the Russian Federation to extend the term of the Black Sea fleet in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which has the appropriate special departments of the Russian Federation. Taking these circumstances into account, and with the aim of maintaining good neighbourly bilateral relations, and with the aim of preventing any conflict-related situations and conditions from involving third parties. Thus today, special services of other nations cannot be allowed without the legal regulation of their activities in Ukraine. Suggestions. First. Establish a clear legal regulation of the activities of special divisions, special services of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in accordance with the rules of the Constitution and current legislation, and exclude any legalization of the activities of foreign special services, including intelligence and counter-investigative services of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, especially in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The other one. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the relevant special services of Ukraine to develop a plan of necessary measures to ensure the conditions for the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, in accordance with the international agreements concluded. This question is very important and requires a very thorough and thorough study. As long as there is no clear legal regulation of the finding of special services by other States in Ukraine, as enshrined in special international treaties, it cannot be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, Boris Pudov and School. Pavlovsky’s school is passed on. Then please prepare for Paul’s death.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u172	Respectable voters, respectable people's deputies! Boris Pudov, Faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. The theme of my statement would be very, very simple, this issue, which has great implications for the work of our legislative body. What's going on? The point is that today, in general, I consider the productive day of our Parliament's work, we have adopted a great deal of legislation, no atmosphere of confrontation, in the atmosphere, I would say constructive work by Parliament. That was stated by my colleagues by the People's Deputies of the Party of the Regions, in particular Pecklusenko, he noted the work. That's what Parliament's First Vice Speaker Martinuk Adam Ivanovich said. Well, I wouldn't share their euphoria that our Parliament has already begun to work in harmony and constructively, although these flashes certainly deserve the respect and support of us people's electorates. However, I am concerned that there are many reasons that hinder the constructive work of Parliament. His role as a consolidating legislature in the life of our State has been hampered. I don't want to take the whole list of problems, it's very wide. These are also issues related to discrediting this in legislative bodies under the growing authoritarian regime, which is trying to dominate all aspects of our public life. I'll take only one-- the destructive role of our speaker he took on. This man has survived under many regimes, trying to survive now. In particular, he himself noted that he had violated the Rules of Work of our legislature twice yesterday. And you know very well that violations of the legislation in force, so to speak, which is the Rules, can be considered null and void. Well, you know, yesterday we were appointed, respected by our constituents, laws for consideration, which have exactly the same bearing on the rule of law and order as we would have resolved here the question of being an Emperor of Ethiopia or one of the Sheikhs of the Arab Emirates. What is more, the beginning of the meeting has not been free from these regulatory violations, which our speaker has deliberately acted on. Moreover, I am not even saying that he takes the liberty of bringing armed people into the hall. I understand that he is afraid of the threat of eggs, but he is apparently not afraid of being removed from office and, for the first time, of being removed from the right of meeting of the Supreme Council, as provided for in our current Rules. Moreover, I do not count on the support of our superiors, such are the Constitutional Court, which, you know, is very weak in arithmetic, he was not able to count at Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u173	Thank you, Boris Mikolaiovich, you are no longer heard. And with regard to violations of the Rules, I will not violate it, nor will I let you finish it, for your time is up. Boris Mikhailovich, will you make suggestions? Make suggestions. But it's a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u174	Adam Ivanovich, I am very grateful that he gave me the right to make an offer. And my offer is the next. I would like to request our next session to remove Lithuania from these meetings and assign them to Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, who clearly adheres to the Rules, who is inclined to make compromise decisions under the existing legislation, which will only increase the effectiveness of our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u175	Thank you. Thank you. I see you want to survive me from here. Boris Mikolaiovich, this is what you're saying, you see, you're on your own now. You and I have demonstrated how the Rules are being violated. The chairman is in violation of the Rules, as this is required by the majority of the deputies themselves. That's how it works. Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u176	Dear fellow countrymen, welcome! Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I wanted to ask you a question that we've all become witnesses to this week. The shameful practice continues when the Party of Regions, from the day their leader Janukovic came to power, did not support any social initiative in this session hall, no social bill that was designed to protect the most vulnerable ranks of the population, namely, the prisoners of Nazi concentration camps that were held yesterday, the disabled, the pensioners, and the Chernobylites. So it turns out that the election is over and Janukovich and his team are no longer needed. I also want to give you this, you know, amazing example. When much was said about Victory Day, and millions of dollars were spent enormously, and when it came to helping war veterans, it turns out that the government of Azarov had halved this aid to war veterans in comparison with that of the past government. And this is quite a forceful fact: War invalids, with only a few thousand left, have reduced their money support by Victory Day from 5,000, 180, five times, to a thousand! What's that?Oh, my God! Is that what the authorities really care about? Retired veterans, disabled? What I'm saying is that this budget that was so advertised here is actually a budget for social deception and lies. Because if you carefully read this budget, you will find no money there for any social obligation, the promise of Yanukovich before the elections. There is no money to raise twice at the birth of the child, maintenance, upbringing, and 500 dollars Januković promised. There's no cost. Just as there is no help at the minimum level of living for low - income families. There's only 50 percent of that amount. And I want to pay attention to what's going on with the sole tariff grid. That, according to the final budget, it remains at a level of 555. Although according to the Wages Act, there should be 884 bracelets. So 300 dollars is less than what people should be legally. The same thing, manipulation now seems to be raising pensions, giving people a few tens of dollars. Even though Janukovic promised every pensioner 500 bucks at least before the election! Where's the 500 bucks?Oh, my God! People, demand your pensions. For the authorities are lying and will continue to lie if you do not demand your own things according to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-14-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, all who wanted to participate in the discussion in the “Variable” spoke. We had a full day’s schedule scheduled for Friday. I remind you that the next Tuesday, next Tuesday, will be the next session. We've been in session mode for two weeks. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
