ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:22]] Cards were registered in the 423 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Kiril Borisovich Kulikov. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success and health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 21 December 2010. Forty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 17 laws and 2 decrees were adopted, 15 bills were adopted on the basis of which one bill was returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, and 8 bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! I remind you of article 51 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the law prohibiting the introduction into the session hall, the placement of posters, loudspeakers and other objects that have no relation to the legal work. I'd like you to take this into account, and I'd like you to record it in your transcript. You and I have agreed that we are working in accordance with the Rules. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for presentations by Ukrainian national deputies with information, applications, queries, reports, and so on. Please, Your Honor, record the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Viacheslav Koval, faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense". The right to speak is given to Boris Tarasyuk. A total of 72 national deputies were registered. Boris Ivanovich, are you going to be there for the next six minutes? Thank you, then. Then John Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u2	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, NH-NS faction. Ladies and gentlemen, for more than eight months now, we have observed a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Ten members of the majority are unlawfully combining positions in public authorities with the representative mandate of the People’s Deputy. In accordance with article 78 of the Constitution, Ukrainian National Deputies exercise their powers on a permanent basis: “The Ukrainian People’s Deputies cannot have another representative mandate or be in the public service”, is the end of the quote. By doing so, the majority demonstrate collective irresponsibility and selective adherence to laws. The deep legal nihilism of the majority is undermining the foundations of parliamentaryism, damaging the international image of Ukraine. In addition to legal, moral grounds, there are economic grounds. By combining the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy with the work of the executive branch, such national deputies receive two salaries from the national budget of Ukraine. It is interesting how this relates to the high-level authorities’ claims to combat corruption and the need for cost savings for officials. In the event that the Ukrainian national deputy unlawfully refuses to submit an application for the appointment of a national deputy, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall lodge a motion with the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. At the same time, if, in previous years, the Head of the Supreme Council had brought such a case before the courts, he would now refuse to perform his duty to restore the rule of law. The National Movement of Ukraine demands the immediate fulfilment of the requirements of the Constitution, namely the removal of the parliamentary mandates of all co-sponsors. The violation of the oath of a national MP should not continue to be unpunished. We understand the workload of the relevant legal services of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, so the People's Movement specifically prepared an administrative action on this issue. The head of the Supreme Council needs only to sign this lawsuit and bring it to trial. Please, Mr. Head, do your duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u3	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT – Fatherland" faction, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u4	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. In an interesting and terrible time, we live. When you read the press reports that dozens of opposition representatives are being held in prison for their national, official, ordinary activity, which today can be twisted and deceived and used to commit crimes, it is scary. And unless ex-Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko committed a crime when she paid pensions to the poor, who, without any other means, waited for this pension as a heavenly manna, to buy a piece of bread. Isn't it crazy that she took money from the treasury accounts, which is then being filled in, and this treasury office knows that there are tens of millions coming in and out of there every day. You can mechanically attribute it to the use of Kyoto Protocol money. That's a lie. The Kyoto Protocol's money today, everyone, and they're on the spot, and no money has gone anywhere. Is there one document that shows that the expenditure was personally signed from this protocol? None. Is there any testimony that Julia Volodymyrna took a penny for herself or stuck to her hands? None. That is why today it is an elementary political debate over a man who poses a threat to today’s power that can run in future parliamentary and then presidential elections. So today, the question is that we need to isolate it, we need to stop its activity in this society. Anything else scary? The fact that facts are cynically and lyingly given, which today are undeniable. In this room there are or were there nine national deputies, who are at the same time government officials today, headed by ministries and offices. Is it normal that they won't be released for six months? They're used in this room as "bits" that only come here to deal with the opposition. I would like to ask the Attorney General and all those involved today and the President: why is Mr Salamatin leading the External Exports so far? He here, in this room, pierced Deputy Karpuk's nose, making him disabled for a while. I have notes today, half a blue of this, so-called, deputy and civil servant. But the main thing is, in his office, in his office, he beat a man, the director of the Techpromcool Science Association, who didn't expect anything from him, except maybe some hard conversation, with his chair. I'd like to examine Mr. Salamatin for sadism. It's a man, well, he's got these slopes that clearly don't allow him to be in human society. And there's a couple more of these sadists, their names we call the Attorney General's Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u5	Irina Bellousov, faction of the People's Party. Shishkina will be next. Alexander Goodima will be, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, on New Year’s Eve, the 20th anniversary of our nation’s independence. Over the years, you can estimate differently: crisis exit, market transformation, transition to modernization. Even with the opposite estimates, we cannot deny the decisive sign that the world map and the international arena have established a new, large, territorial, and powerful power of the State. Unfortunately, we're still missing one thing -- the appearance of a highly professional, patriotic, politically unattractive elite in Ukrainian territory. The search and involvement of such people in government, and they are ready to cooperate with the authorities, is an objective need and a challenge to time. To my mind, today, the economy and society are supposed to go up to the world's heights of civilization, not the West or the East. Now the true government elite has come to realize that without concentration and centralization of government power, and at the same time regional self-organization is a road to nowhere. As a professional economist, I know that the market environment is rigidly pragmatic, it generally does not recognise the categories of “national interests”, “patriotism”, “social justice”. And by their very nature and ideology, they have to be supported by the state by an adequate policy. So the market must be economics, a system of farming, not a state, or a society as a whole. This principle must be promoted by the Ukrainian State. This is an important criterion for the civil development of Ukraine. As a state, we have priorities, which I want to stress in particular, that are God-given to us with you, with nature, with history. This is about our unique territorial transport location, the unique natural climate conditions and the wonderful fertile mother-of-the-earth. Ukraine has a labour force, a literate population, and a high intellectual potential. Today, however, the most creative scientific community is completely isolated from power. And I'd say mutual contempt. The time has come to respect serious science and to support its most talented representatives. Today's housing, roads, agrarian sector with developed infrastructure are absolute priorities. We have economies of scale, that is, economies can evolve based on the internal market and internal demand. There are few such countries in the world. But today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u7	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u8	Yet, we today are to say that there is no rich Ukraine or system of things in it. I hope that from the new year everything will change for the better and for the benefit of our citizens. And with the opportunity, I want to welcome everyone with the coming New Year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u9	Thank you. Alexander Goodima, “BUT” faction – “Fatherhood”. Next up will be Yuri Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Timoshenko-Batakushkina “Block of July” today requires President Yanuković, Prime Minister Azarov and the faction of the Party of Regions to give immediate warmth to the residents of the town of Stahanov Luganov. Today, imagine, on the eve of New Year’s and Christmas holidays, you cannot punish people for their choice, which they did not make in the presidential election. Well, people who voted 90 percent for Yanukovich cannot be punished by cold homes. Today, on the central prospectus of Stahanov, with President Yanukovic’s bright New Year’s greetings, 50 percent of the residents will freeze to death with promises to improve their lives today. They expect whether the heat will be delivered to their homes, whether President Yanukovic will fulfill the promise he made back in Kaluchi -- to whatever extent he would work against his constituents, the President promised to turn his head. So it is better, in our opinion, that you give immediate warmth to the inhabitants of Stahanov. Because the city's head, which is overpowered, is yours, today through all the television channels, recommends to pensioners, to the poor, who today have huge pay and pension debts, to take credit, to buy individual boilers and to save who can. This has to do with people and with the energy security of the state. And the second. The Timoshenko’s “Paternal Motherhood” faction calls for the creation of a pristine SP between Gazprom and NAK “Naftogaz”, where the Russians of NAK “Naftogazu” will help mine gas methane. Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that the Russian Gazprom, where the production of its own gas falls, where its gas costs $20, will help us, the Ukrainians, to invest in the production of expensive gas? They don't need it. They tie your hands. Today they must learn, perhaps in yours, in our Jephimus Zvigilski, how to get our gas by their own means. They want to create a SP, they want to enter the SP, intellectual property. In view of the fact that we cannot access intellectual property, we will enter our assets, perhaps the gas transportation system. So I'm sad to ask you to stop creating SPs that conflict with Ukraine's national interests. Come on, finally, and think more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u11	Yuri Serbin is transferring the right to speak to Yuri Odarchenk, the “BUT – “Fatherland” faction. The next one will be Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u12	Honorable colleagues, respected TV sets, and radio audiences! I have more appeal to the people, to the people of Ukraine. Dear friends, I want you to look very closely at what is happening in the Supreme Council and what is happening in the country. The last Thursday saw an absolutely brutal beating of MPs from the Fatherland who defended the rights of citizens and defended their rights. I, my dear friends, want you to understand clearly that following the beating of old Professor Gnatkevitch, 72 years old, by the beating of the officials of our state, and in this beating, I remind you, the active ministers of today -- the Evil One and the official of Salamatin -- have taken part in this beating. It's a demonstration for people to react calmly to what's going to happen in the state, not to protest. And today we see by the budgets, by the signs that there is a budget that Yanukovich is no longer afraid of his enemies, he is afraid of his inner opposition. You see, the budget of the army, the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, was equal to 13.5 billion. It's a sign. If there's a plane in the army, a tank, soldiers to feed, there's no police force to this day. One definition and purpose of the police is to push the opposition. We see that today Janukovic clearly understands that the only opposing force in the country is Timoshenko, who has the dignity that has the power to bring together all the opposition forces of the country around him. What's going on? Today, criminal cases against Timoshenko have been brutally violated, and completely infamous charges have been found. I paid my pension, not some kind of disciplinaryly clear accounting wire. I paid my pension! On the basis of this, criminal cases are committed. What happened on Thursday? For the people, it is a sign that the Supreme Council passed the Law on Penitentiary for Citizens. Janukovic fears that citizens will protest not only on the grounds, but they will not pay for utilities. He takes the following step: He accepts the Law on Penitentiary. Dear people! I want you to understand that there is a very strict limit to this law. Pena 0.1 percent for each day of delay. There's no limit to the penny! That's a sign that this authority is going to take your place. Beating up a professor, taking a place, tomorrow is a retirement age for men and women. And in your position, you have to understand clearly that yesterday's vote for Yanukovich and for the Regions was a mistake. And Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko in this fight, in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u13	Finish up, please. Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u14	Respectable voters! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You know, given the latest legislative initiatives in our country and the promises made by Mr. Tigypto to IMF patrons, the word “codex” in our country will soon become defiant. Remember the Tax Code. By the way, remember that he was sent on the initiative of Peter Simonenko and that the economic pervert Tigipko was removed from the curatorship of him. During the six-year period, the Code was substantially amended. In Minfin, some of our proposals and rights were taken into account: both the progressive tax system and the abolition of the transport collection, and the release from the tax press of all IT businesses, and will return. and returned the benefits to the soldiers. In view of what we think both budgeters and teachers need money, the faction voted in favour of the code. But that's the point. No more votes will the Communist faction pay for anti-national documents such as the Labour Code, the Housing Code, and pension reform. There are already activities for the “carts” and the people of Zhvania. Our leader, Peter Simonenko, stated in detail and clearly from the rostrum about the position on pension reform and the Labour Code. I want to briefly address another bad document, the Housing Code. To comment on it, sometimes it is better to resort to abnormal language and the conclusions after reading this Talmud are one thing: rather than adopting such a code, the absolute majority of law-abiding citizens are better off living without it at all. The owners of construction and financial corporations, as well as local compadors and foreign directors, remain in the fat, who place our country on its knees. Who, for example, benefit from the rule that citizens are deprived of the right to inherit and privatize housing if it is State? So the tenant died, and on the street. Who is benefiting from the rule that when a building is transferred from a residential facility, it is allowed to evict people from the building? Who benefit from the ultimatum and unappealable removal of tenants from homes to be rebuilt or demolished? Now it's clear: watch out for Podol, watch out for Moldovan and other central parts of the city, because for your lands, capital recognizes any monument of architecture and will evict people a hundred kilometers away. In large numbers, this will be a start for the construction of the ghetto, for the poor, because the "careful deputies" (in coffeehouses) are simply obliged to provide an equivalent meter. And you know what the subway is going to be. In view of the complete “lack of corruption in the judicial system” in our country, and taking into account the fact that a lawyer is the most humane profession, it is clear what decisions will be made on our citizens. [[Of course I do.]] [[I hope it's in the coffee shop, too.]] Social housing must be forgotten at all. The seven documents also contain the phrase “peña”. You know that we did not vote in favour of this rule, and our faction has a proposal to introduce, for example, a foam for late payment of wages, a foam for not complying with the level of inflation to the level of indexation, a foam for poor utilities, a foam for moral, after all, damage to such characters as tailors, hedgehogs and tigyps. Here's a brief analysis of Gilkodex, and we state that our faction will not vote in favour of such a document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u15	Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherhood." Grigory Kaletnik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u16	Respectable compatriots! We are witnessing the day - to - day attack on the rights of ordinary people who work as human rights are restricted. And that's confirmed by the budget project that introduced the government, where social standards are essentially and artificially underestimated. This will lead to a reduction in pensions, a freeze on wages, and scholarships will be at the level of last year, no increase. And that's when President Janukovic promised at the beginning of the year that the minimum pension would be 1,200 dollars. Will we find this number? She's not in the budget. Now, since January 1, they're planning 750 dollars. Compare the promises of a thousand 200 dollars, the minimum pension, and 750. Notice, what kind of pension reform are they preparing? Humanist Action! It's not reform -- it's the fixing of holes in the Pension Fund; it's a five-year increase in retirement age, it's going to start with women, it's going to start with military personnel, it's going to reach everyone else; it's a limitation on payments to working pensioners (and that's when we have 7 million people getting a minimum pension of 734 bracelets and having to fake); it's the cancellation of retirement. This will primarily affect the military, the law enforcement, the militia. Soldiers, think! – you become socially unprotected before you launch peaceful protests. For the purpose of diverting the attention of the people from these major problems -- the deterioration of life today -- they staged a gang attack on December 16th and a savage beating of people here in the Supreme Council Hall. How else can this be interpreted when the officials of Salamatin, Zločevsky, the co-conspirators, the violators of the Constitution come here to beat the national deputies in beastly chairs, and there is an actor like Zurko in this room, who is not our colleague at all, he has the wisdom to inflict severe bodily harm to the deputy Kravczuk and Wolinz. And how do you estimate the beatings of a 70-year-old professor, a philosopher named Gnatkiewicz? So these people are inhumans, they don't belong here. And I want to ask the Attorney General: why is this selective approach when the case is open against the opposition, and these open criminals and recidivists, who don't beat people for the first time, like Salamatin, Shentz, Kings, nothing, close their eyes. We have to put an end to this. What state are we building, social or police? Think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u17	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Nadosha will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It is a pity that once again the urgent problems of people’s lives are replaced by political divisions in the Supreme Council and all that hangs in posters. So I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that this year has continued to see an increase in prices for agricultural raw materials and foodstuffs, although the pace has dropped considerably. Animal production plays an important role in society’s quality, as one of the main and basic sectors of agriculture that provides food and other commodities to the population. The extent of industry’s productivity depends on the level of population security in a variety of products. However, milk production also declined this year, although again, the downward trend is positive, with a 350,000 - ton drink. A number of experts believe that it is necessary to survive from the internal market of individual farmers, and large - scale production should be a priority. At the same time, I want to say that the facts say that we need to develop the animal sector in all kinds of farms, they all have positive signs and similar problems. Yes, in some large processing companies, the evidence of price conspiracies, mass falsifications of products, and the use of vegetable fats instead of milk are used in dairy products. Unauthorized artificial dyes are used, preservatives that are not allowed in normative documents. Soybeans are used in the production of sausages instead of meat, soybeans instead of cocoa butter instead of palm oil, artificial dyes are used instead of crocheting. And that's what both brands and manufacturers and importers are doing in Ukraine. In such a situation, there is a risk of entering the consumer market in Ukraine of inadequacy, dangerous, counterfeit products produced by enterprises that are soon at any cost to obtain the maximum profit, not taking into account any legislation of either Ukraine or Europe. A population that, because of its poor purchasing power, will be forced to buy this particular product will suffer damage to life and health. And in this there is a negative role to be played by the laws and regulations adopted by the previous authorities. We need to provide conditions for competition in Ukraine’s market for production produced by both industrial giants and agricultural and personal agriculture and the production of quality animal products by increasing the culture of meat and milk processing in order to become European quality standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u19	National Deputy Nadosha, faction of the Party of the Regions. Rybek will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u20	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Once again, I would like to draw our attention to the problems that exist in such a state structure as the State Reserve. For many of us today, hearing these figures from this rostrum is such an abstraction. But the State Reserve is a government body of central government that was formed and created back in Soviet times. The Ukrainian State Reserve began its work on February 11, 1991. It was made up of two such powerful systems. The first system is the reserve, the second system is the mobilisation reserve. The stock was made up to obtain food and ingredients for the production of these foods at a monthly cost of 1,000,250 calories. For a day to be able to keep the country on what is kept in the Reserve for at least a month. This norm and this figure were called the "uninterrupted remainder". The whole time we were independent, we had a surplus of at least 30 to 50 percent. This function is lost today. In fact, there is no fixed stock in the country. Do you think he went to some kind of trouble? No, he was just upset, robbed on the basis. Today, we only have 16ths, and for some foods, we have almost 8 percent of the storage. This tells us that at C, we will have nothing to feed the country or to satisfy the market. First. The other one. We have a mobilisation reserve. It was designed to provide an opportunity to build technology, military technology, transportation, porous floods, and so on, either in terms of military needs or natural needs. The mobilisation reserve was saved on 1 thousand 268 savings companies. So today we don't have a mobilisation reserve, and it's also a stolen number, and it's going to be for some savings companies 90 to 100 percent. So the things that were planned for the time of the war, in times of natural disasters, are metals, some wooden structures -- we don't have them today. Stolen. As I finish my speech, I would like to contact the law enforcement agencies. We have 457 acts of service that have checked the Reservoir's activities over the last 5 to 6 years. There are four criminal cases that have been violated. All the heads of the Reserve who worked during this period went there for eight months, up to a year. They were quick to make and run. But they're all right next to us. As I turn to the Attorney General’s Office, the law enforcement agencies, I would like to consider carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u22	examine the materials of the tests and make the appropriate decisions for those who stole the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u23	Stepan Davymuk has the right to speak instead of his colleague Rybek. Last speaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! The famous saying of one of the great: “authority does not change a person; it only clearly shows what kind of person he really is.” During the 10 months of the new authority, the answer is clear, which is ideological, which is the spiritual foundation of the new authority. Unfortunately to speak, but as a result of the work of the new authority, it is clear that the foundation of the new authority, spiritual, ideological, is Suddephia. And the soviet cave, with the elements of Stalin. Such a flurry has always been and is anti - Ukrainian. We see that the declared war on Ukrainian language, the declared war on national memory. What cynicism it is to appoint leaders of the appropriate structures of those who are heirs to those who have committed terrible crimes against mankind in Ukraine. The irony of the moment is that if earlier in Russian times. The Soviet Empire was. Rusification mechanisms were external, so now they're trying to continue the Donetsk mechanisms in Ukraine. The declared war throughout the ancient Ukrainian territory. Suddevia has always been pro-Moscow, and we see what it looks like to be the areas that make up the world’s glory for Ukraine. Suddevia has always ignored the law, and we have seen many examples of ignoring the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution in this room. Sudipija has always relied on violence, and this violence is seen in all the initiatives of the new authorities. The Tax Code, the Labour Code, is full of these elements and mechanisms of violence. Jaroslav. The symbol of your democracy is the fist. You're about to sow the wind and reap the storm. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, addresses, and assignments regarding problems that have been violated by the national MPs. With regard to Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's initiative, I will inform my distinguished colleague and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 223 of the Rules, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to appeal to the Court only when he receives the appropriate conclusion and proposal from the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then for 10 days, I'm obliged to do it. There are no such conclusions, but there are my repeated references to both the co-conspirators and the committee, and there is an appropriate draft decision that is scheduled for consideration by the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you, Your Honor, let's all abide by the Rules and then we will have the right to appeal to each other, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issue of information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the assessment of recent conflicts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, yesterday you and I made the appropriate decision for which 300 Ukrainian national deputies voted. Informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be the Deputy Attorney General Blaživsky Evgen Mikolayovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I should have done it yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, Your Honor, as a compromise, you and I have voted with you, and I'll remind you once again, according to the transcript: information from the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u26	Once again, I would like to emphasize to you the information of the Attorney General's Office regarding the assessment of recent conflicts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would add the word “legal evaluation” here. I want to do it again. Here's a stenogram and read it. Because it was a compromise to vote for that decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I tell my respectable colleagues: I had to come to the session room and stand up for my point of view. Therefore, according to article 240 of the Rules of Information, up to 20 minutes are allowed, and the answers to questions are up to 20 minutes. Everything else, according to a separate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On behalf of the Attorney General of Ukraine, I would like to provide you with information on the events that have been brought before the prosecution. While I am in this important hall, I regret to say that you and I are seeing far from unique cases of non-parliamentary conduct by individual national MPs, including the use of physical force. In the last five years alone, there have been more than 10. At the same time, parliamentarians have stated that they need to carry out investigations and make decisions in accordance with criminal and procedural legislation to law enforcement agencies are far from everyone. When such appeals took place, an appropriate decision was made under the law denying a criminal case or a criminal case. These are events that took place on April 27 and December 16 of this year. The Office of the Prosecutor - General is responsible for obtaining bodily harm by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. As a result, investigations were conducted and criminal cases were investigated. With regard to April events. In the conduct of the Department of Public Prosecutions of Kiev, there is a criminal case based on a gross violation of public order, motivated by a manifest disrespect for society, accompanied by a special insolence, committed by a group of Ukrainian national deputies during the next plenary session, which took place on April 27, this year. And the case was violated under part two of article 296 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. According to the findings of the investigation, sufficient evidence has been gathered for the violation of the criminal case of the people’s deputies Grimczak Yuri Mikolaiovich and Parbija Andrija Volodimirovich on 14 May of this year for the illegal influence of the Head of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies in order to prevent them from carrying out their official duties in the use of their official status and has been reclassified to the signs of crime provided for in part two of article 344 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. This gave rise to the submission to the Supreme Council of an agreement on the criminalization of national MPs. The document issued by the Supreme Council was returned to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on 14 June to provide additional materials. The ruling of the Pecher District Court of Kiev on August 2, this year, left citizens of Grimchak and Paris unsatisfied with the ruling on a criminal case against the latter. The ruling of the Pecher District Court of Kiev was upheld by an appeal court in Kiev. In order to establish the nature of localization and the severity of the bodily damage suffered by the 37 Ukrainian National Deputies, on 14 May there are forensic and medical expertise commissioned by experts from the Kyiv City Bureau of Forensic and Medical Research, which are not yet fully completed. In addition, 52 of the 22 Ukrainian national deputies were questioned as witnesses. The findings of forensics have been obtained. The subjects and items that were examined and included in the material were removed during the conduct of the trial investigation, including the video recordings of events in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. There were a number of court-medical examinations of the National Deputies, which established that changes on the side of the airways and eyes could occur when the smoke was inhaled on April 27 in the room of the session hall. Dear national deputies, and now for the events that took place in this Hall on December 16th. [[B in m in s a l in]] To Pechersky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u29	So I'm going to answer that question in the process of answering your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u30	Dear, distinguished colleagues! Well, please. Come on, you listen. We'll have a question. the opportunity to set up. Well, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u31	As for the events that took place in this room on December 16. At 21 hours in Kiev, the Department of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Ukraine was informed by doctors that they had delivered five national deputies with bodily injuries to the Feofania Clinic at the same time at 19 hours in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This fact is registered in the register of applications and reports of crimes committed or being prepared. According to this fact, the Pecher District Police Department carried out a check during which police officers went to the Feofania Clinic on the same day. Other doctors have provided information on the health of the deliveryees. Yet, the latter refused to communicate with law enforcement officials at the time. The following day, official information was received from the hospital regarding the health status of the national MPs who sought medical assistance. It is estimated that a number of television channels, including 1+1, 5 channels and STBs, were filming these events. The Ukrainian National Deputies' statements about the crime committed in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's session hall came to the Attorney General's Office on December 20. On the same day, they were sent to the prosecutor's office in Kiev to take a decision in accordance with article 97 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. In view of the existence of sufficient reasons and reasons, on December 21, this year, the public prosecutor of Kiev filed a criminal case for interfering with public officials in order to prevent them from performing their duties. According to part two of article 344 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, on December 16, a group of individual national deputies, starting at 9 o’clock in 30 minutes in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council, used their service position to interfere with the performance of their duties. In addition, some 19 hours between the national deputies there was a strong opposition to the use of physical violence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u32	One minute, one minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, dear fellows, dear fellows! Dear National Deputies! If you don't want to hear the information, please, please! I'm asking you again! Deputy General. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you can listen! The Deputy Attorney General is giving you a briefing on the course of events. Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, please listen. Well, then we won't listen if it doesn't suit you. Well, please, come on, show some tolerance. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u33	As a result of these events, individual national deputies were injured. Parliament’s work on December 16 did not begin. For the time being, the trial is ongoing. Investigator group created. The investigation is under the control of the Attorney General of Ukraine. While I am on this rostrum, I would like to point out that the investigation of criminal cases where members of criminal justice are national deputies of Ukraine, regardless of their procedural status, whether as witnesses or victims or even as suspects, accused, is a complex process of investigation; and the main is the manifestation of national MPs. I hope that under these criminal matters, both the leadership of Parliament and the people's deputies themselves, the maximum contribution will be to the investigation and to the establishment of the truth in the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the information is complete. Let's get to the questions. Please, calm down. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. 20 minutes, please. Dear colleagues, I am going according to the Rules, there will be other proposals - I will put to the vote. Let's not scream. Please. I'm recording from the scene, please. May I have the names of the people's deputies? Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u36	I'm reminding you, asking a question is one minute, answering a question is up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u37	Of course, it is embarrassing what is happening in our session hall because it undermines the authority of our Supreme Council. But those who were speaking today and so harshly criticized their colleagues for their nonparliamentary methods of work were to speak the truth. Why they came with chains, hamsters, locks, smoke checkers, and then it would be a complete picture. Eugene Mikolaiovich, I think it's wrong to talk today about the fact that the prosecutor's office itself is capable of dealing with such situations. Because more than 50 fights have already been fought in the Supreme Council, and perhaps the MPs themselves need to raise the level of political culture. The other one. Resolve in a legal way so that there are no more such incidents, for blocking the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is already a sign of a crime. Do you share that view?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is clear that all the events that took place in this Hall on December 16 will be investigated within the framework of a criminal case, beginning in the morning and before the end of those events that resulted in the bodily harm of the national deputies. And the objects that the Head of the Supreme Council has demonstrated that were brought into the Hall, all of this will be subject to research in the criminal case of the investigative and operational group that was created. All the events that took place in this room will be the subject of a criminal investigation. And I hope that the national deputies will contribute to the investigation of this criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u39	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u40	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The honourable reporter, of course, what you're talking about, it's socially resonant, it's infuriating people in Ukraine and far beyond, and it's shaping the image of the state. People point out that the failure to bring responsibility to those who allow such action in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the path to new, even greater violations. Please tell me, after all, and let people know whether there are closed criminal cases in those cases that took place in the spring. And today we understand that it is the hearings that are pressing on Parliament and society in order to stop the case of one of the women of Ukraine who has committed major financial violations while in power. It's there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I would like to tell you that the events that took place on December 16th in this room will be the subject of a thorough prosecution investigation, and the events that took place on April 27 in this room will be. is the subject of an investigation. The criminal case is not closed. However, according to current legislation, since the return of the Attorney General to the Attorney General for further processing was carried out, the case was processed and the Prosecutor’s Office was ready to resubmit to the Supreme Council for review. After all, it is possible to evaluate these events, first of all, by obtaining the approval of the national deputies to bring their colleagues to justice. Without such approval, the prosecutor’s office cannot move any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u42	People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u44	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u45	Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich, the point is that provocations in the Supreme Council of Ukraine began long ago, and from time to time they explode into such opposition. You could see for yourself when you came to the session hall, how you knew how you behaved, so-called, opposition. If they were not afraid, they would have run to the rostrum, but they know that this time they will not succeed. So I have a request for you to give me, please, an evaluation as a lawyer as Deputy Attorney General. Do you not consider it appropriate, or is it possible, whether there is such a mechanism in the light of the events under discussion, including the excitement of the electrical shield at its own time when everyone in the session room was in mortal danger because the fire system was shut down? Is it not time to create within the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a unit of authorized parliamentary institutions, such as in other states, whether the police, or the police, to ensure order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u46	Thank you. Mr. Deputies, distinguished national MPs! The events that took place in February 2007 were the subject of a procurator’s study. At the time, however, no data were provided on the cause of any material damage, and the fact was therefore denied in a criminal case. If there is any other information at this time, the prosecutor’s office may return to the matter. And about the second question. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the second question you mentioned. Indeed, in individual countries there is an institution of so - called parliamentary departments or parliamentary police. But it's already a matter of the MPs' hands, if such a law is passed -- we'll welcome the adoption of such a law. Because order and discipline in the Parliamentary Hall are essential to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u47	Andrew Parubius, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Anatoly Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u49	Anatoly Gritsenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u50	I've just listened to your report and the conclusion for me is that the prosecutor's office is taking the side of the bandits. Why? The first time Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic and his faction were blocked by Parliament for two months and there were “NATO – No!” balloons. Nobody. There were no bandits in our two factions that were killing their heads, breaking their jaws, causing severe bodily harm, as was the case with Karpuk, Gnatkevitch, Donya, and many others. Henprocuror's deputy didn't name any of the names of any bandits who were here that you know from the video, King or Zloczevsky or Salamatin or anyone. The D.A. is afraid of bandits, so tell me about it. And the fact that you've violated the criminal case, not the fact that you're inflicting bodily harm on those who've been beaten, against the bandits, but against those who've blocked the rostrum, tells us that the prosecutor's office is increasingly being defended by the bandits. Stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u51	Thank you for asking, Mr. People's Deputy. First of all, I'm not right as a prosecutor to name names until there's a court decision. You yourself have adopted the Civil Code, in which you recorded this formulation. Because this document came into this room to give consent, I didn't call them criminals or anything else, because it's only for the court if it is. If he's gone, I'll never use that word. In addition, I can say that in all the events where there was an appeal to the Attorney General's Office or the Prosecutor's Office in another region, assessments were made in all cases: and in all cases, investigations were conducted with regard to all the national MPs who applied for the cause of bodily harm.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u52	Complete the answer. Gregory Kaletnik refers the right to the question of Michael Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u53	Dear Eugene Nikolaevich! I am deeply convinced that the insurrection of little evil produces great evil. If, in due course, those who carried grenades and detonated grenades in the hall were severely punished, that would not result in a second breach, nor would they bring cold weapons in the form of mountings and chains that could cause injury to people. I have a specific question. In recent events, metal objects that could be used to cause bodily harm were introduced into the Hall of the Supreme Council. Do you know about this? And will they be the subject of a criminal case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u54	So, thank you. Dear Mr. Deputies! A criminal case involving events that took place in this room on December 16 was violated. And all circumstances will be subject to prosecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u55	Please! Please don't show your level of culture. Please. Please. People's MP Melnik, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u56	Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich! Of course, we are interested in how the Office of the Attorney General responded to the events of February 21, 2007. But I am personally interested in how the Attorney General's Office responded to the order of Kiriev, the head of the Tax Service, the representative of the Orange Authority to apply rubber sticks, Čeromohu, at the National University of Taxation, Ukraine, as the special agent of the Physist of the Tax Police. And how did the Attorney General react to the fact that the guard at the time of my boy Roman, 21, was simply found murdered. Tell me, this authority, which gives everyone the stigma that all bandits, it didn't sow the first gang activity and now it has an appropriate situation in Parliament? Isn't she the first one to block Parliament's actions? And not just in the Elktroshield of a higher legislator.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u57	Yes, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u58	I am not authorized to give political evaluation to events, but I can say that all the appeals made to the prosecutor’s office were evaluated. I can't specify the events that happened five years ago, I think, because I didn't work in this position and I don't know much about these events. But if there's such a parliamentary appeal, we'll go back to that question, we'll look at it, and I'm more than willing to give information to the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u59	Mikhail Kossov, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u61	Prokopchuku? Please, Yuri Prokopchuk, the Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u62	Dear Ukrainian people! Now it's just the tip of cynicism. When, according to the report, criminal cases must be committed against those in hospital beds. What, though, really? Offenced by the Public Prosecutor's Office for Part Two of Article 344 of the Criminal Code, which reads as follows: “This is interference with the activity of a public official”. What kind of government official? Because at least by definition there should be 450 statesmen. Instead, the whole country, the whole world, saw what was really going on. It was a planned attack on national MPs from the Timoshenko Block of Yulia, at least, an attempt on their lives. Six deputies received bodily injuries of various severitys, four now in hospital beds known as names.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u63	Please, calm down! Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Deputies! Everything you've said about will be the subject of a criminal investigation. A task force has been created. And all the events that have taken place in this room will be considered, and they will be given a legal evaluation. Today is just the second day since the crime. An investigation will be conducted and information provided. More days have passed since the events. There was an investigative test. The materials collected by the internal affairs authorities were addressed to the prosecutor’s office, studied by the prosecutor’s office, and criminal proceedings were brought against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u65	Thank you. Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u66	Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich, I am addressing you as Deputy Attorney General, Prosecutor of the City of Kiev. All that happened in the Hall on December 16 is the derivative of what happened in the Kyiv Council Hall when the national MPs were beaten. So it's been a year, and it's not being investigated. Now, I'd like to give the word to Mr. Roman Zvaric to decide the faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u67	Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u68	Mr. Prosecutor, I've been in this room for 12 years, I've never heard an even more shameful speech in all this time. People's deputies are beaten, and you want to punish those who are currently in the hospital. That doesn't suit you. You're discrediting the prosecutor's office. Just in case, I'm officially informing you that members of our faction have signed criminal statements in accordance with article 95 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'll give you those statements right now. And we're going to demand an immediate response to these statements, particularly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u69	Yes, please answer the questions. Well, you'll pass it on now, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u70	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I'll get your applications. But what I'm saying is that the statements of the national MPs who have been injured in 16 numbers are already in the criminal file, and these facts, including the criminal case. And all these materials that you've passed on will be the subject of a criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u71	Yes, Jaroslav Jojik, faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u72	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Mr. Reporter, recently in the media, information has been published that this year 42 people were killed in mysterious circumstances in the local police stations -- 2 times as many as in 2009, which is evidence of mass torture in the militia. Do you not think that these double standards in your speech, which you have demonstrated, are the impunity that you demonstrate without responding to the obvious atrocities of the national MPs of the Party of the Regions during the attack they carried out, are contributing to the spread of crime in our country? That's the first question. The second question. As you see, the situation in our country has been affected by the statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that, forget the Rules. And don't you think you're a representative?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u73	Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, indeed, there have been cases not only in Ukraine but in many countries, and not only this year, but for many years, where the police have exceeded their mandate. This year, too, there have been many cases. Recently, under the headship of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the head of the committee of Viktor Dmitrovitch Schwetz, there was a hearing that provided information on all the facts of the overriding of the authority of internal affairs officials. I mean, we've had dozens of criminal cases against these law enforcement officers. Two police officers have recently been arrested in the Sumskie region, in other areas. And all those who have exceeded their authority have responded. There are no double or triple standards. Those who have broken the law, who have caused harm to human health, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u75	Please complete the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u76	We hope that the questions you have asked will be subject to prosecution. And when it comes to giving an assessment to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it does not come under my authority. So I don't know that statement, I'm not going to make any grades.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u77	I'll give you an answer, Your Honor. I said, "Dear colleagues, I answer." He said that there was no need to appeal to the Rules when they were violated by the Rules, so the Rules should be forgotten. In such an editorial, I would like to quote you very clearly. Nor should we wait for the Attorney General’s deputy, but all circumstances could be clarified. You've lost an excellent opportunity to keep quiet about this. Please add these 30 minutes that I answered. Rybeka, please, faction “BUT – “Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u78	I'd like to give it to Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u79	Please, Volodymyr Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u80	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Eugene, in your speech, you have started with very distant events that are being investigated lopsidedly. Well, it could have started with the Fourth State Duma of Russia, and there were also events. In order to move away from the legal evaluation or at least to determine what happened recently. During the night, at a nonworking time, a group of sadists attacked the nonworking national deputies who were there and held a small meeting there on the stage. What activity, to whom, who violated? Now it's a different question. You said that the MPs did not address or refuse to give testimony to the law enforcement authorities. That's a lie! No one was talking. I was there till the middle of the day, no one was talking. It seems to me that you should say, in the context of your report today, about the repression against Timoshenko, about the repression throughout Ukraine, if you look at these facts so widely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Dmitrovich, believe that as part of the criminal investigation and you as the person who made the application and other national MPs, you will be able to give your testimony, go through forensics. And on the basis of all those data collected, an estimate will be given. I see, Volodymyr Dmitrovich, means, and will be examined under what circumstances, such as when, who caused such damage to the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u82	Yes, and Valérie Konovaluk passes the right to the question of Ephraim. I said 30 seconds. We agreed to add, dear colleagues. Ephremov passes on to Konovaluku. Well, I told you. There's a statement and a message. Well, respectable colleagues. 30 seconds, we agreed. Konovaluka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich! In fact, in every country of the world, there were no instances of intentional burning and delinquency in Parliament, a group of people, MPs, who then, in April months, lit smoke checkers here. A criminal case has been violated. In fact, we felt that we should be held accountable. I have a question: when is the Attorney General going to file, let's say, an annulment of the MP's in touch with the MPs they were talking about? And another question. Where did these smoke checkers come from, of course. This must have been given by the leader of the People's Self-Defense. The D.A. reported the completion of a criminal investigation into Yuri Lucenka. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Mr. Valery! I may not have fully heard all the questions you asked. Well, about the events that took place on April 27th, I think I told you more about it in my speech. As for the second question. As to the end of the criminal case concerning Yuri Lucenka. Indeed, the trial has been completed. However, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine provides for the right to know the materials of a criminal case. And only after she has completed her study of the material of the case can she be referred to the court. Yet, on yesterday, only 18 sheets of the case were introduced to Mr. Lucenk. And the case is made up of more than 20 volumes. That's why both Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko and his guardian should be familiar with the materials of the criminal case, but in today's Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time, time is up. Thank you, sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, now, one minute. Please! The questions have been answered. But, properly, please, calm down! — pursuant to article 240, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may decide to discuss the matter. That was the offer. I'm voting on this proposal. Who's for discussing information from the Attorney General, please be sure. The Attorney General's Office, I'm sorry. Information from the Attorney General's Office. Please decide how to vote. [[11:12:57]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. Take it easy. Regional Party – 0, BUT – 103, BUT – Fatherland – 103, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 52, Communists – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, please. I thank the Deputy Attorney General for taking part in our meeting. When necessary, we will likely make the right decision to return to these questions. And there's a statement by two factions that require a 30-minute recess. So do you want to take a break or, like, one minute or an application? A break? It's being announced. And a break for what, for consultation? I'm asking, let's put it this way: before the break, let's give one minute of thought to the factions on this subject. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please. Vladimir Karpuk, please. Who's gonna be one minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u86	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I read this recently new novel by Lini Kostenko, "Notes by the Ukrainian madman".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u87	She just walked away.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u88	She just walked away. A multi-dimensional design. And there's a lot of pages of Ukrainian politics and Ukrainian politics. The centrifuge of idiocy is called Lena Kostenko, all that happens in the Supreme Council. I don't know what grade she'd give today, but this cynical speech by the Attorney General goes beyond anything. Surely, in no country should law - enforcement authorities understand that unpunished evil regenerates new evil. Those are also the words of Lena Costenko. But our justice, the justice field, has long grown to hell. And I'm sorry. And we're not going to believe that any legitimate decision will be made on this issue, because politicians have long, indeed, lost all shame and lost everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u89	Please, who's it going to be? Ivan Kirilenko or who? Victor Terrence, please. It's not a statement, it's one minute away from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u90	It's a minute, yeah. It's a minute. Dear colleagues, what we have heard here from the so-called Attorney General or his deputy, is very clearly in line with the Ukrainian proverb: “The crow does not cast out the eye of the crow.” Well, really, it is. Because there was a district attorney's office here. It was that prosecutor's office that is protecting the bandits today, and that prosecutor's office is judging Julia Timoshenko for paying people's pensions. But the facts are clear: The film clearly identifies the beastly face of those who beat the MPs. This film went around the world, you can see the savage faces of Salamatin, Zlochevsky, other of their sadistic colleagues, the government officials of others who did this break-up here. But the district attorney's office is opening a criminal case in a completely different article, another article that will provide for the punishment of Professor Gnatkiewicz, who is currently in the hospital, the Wolitzer with a broken jaw. [[70 years]] It will be the fault of those in this article who have been boned here and who are now lying with a concussion. In this situation, I think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, People's Party, who will? Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u92	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues, all calls and announcements are futile. For them to be in vain, there must be a different level of common culture and political culture, including those in this sessional room. That's why we need to act on the statute. Obstruction of the activities of public authorities according to the applicable Ukrainian legislation is a crime. The use of physical force in the session room and in the gym in Parliament is a crime. It is therefore necessary for law enforcement authorities to react independently from parliamentary immunity to crimes, because crimes at the scene of their commission are subject to criminal prosecution. And the third moment. If all calls and omens, as I have already said, are futile, there must be people who would be given the right to disentangle and disunite those who obviously do not realize that they are parliamentarians. Thus, the institution of parliamentary attitudes is relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u93	Alexander Efraemov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I think we all know very well the sentence: “I will not agree with you, but I am willing to give my life for your right to speak on a matter.” And when I hear a wild roar, when other people say a different point of grain, I want to repeat: what do you want? Do you want freedom of speech in our country? Or do you want your right to dictate your will to someone? If you want freedom of speech, then give others the right to speak and learn to listen, it is an essential issue of culture that you must master. Now, Vladimir Mihajlovich, on the issue of the main issue on which we are discussing. If our opponents take half an hour each day and we do not work, it will cost our State dearly, especially since we have to make very important decisions in the remaining days. Today we must adopt two laws, which we are talking about for several years: Act on Access to Information. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u95	Please. Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine is primarily damaged by what is not in force in the country, neither by the Constitution nor by the law of Ukraine, and this is particularly painful for all Ukrainian citizens. I'm talking to those who today are so protective of the rights you're leading ap to. Who are you appealing to? Because you were both executive, and you had a majority here in the session room. Today you make a noise about political repression. What kind of political repression is taking place? I call on one that for every violation that is being committed in Ukraine, any official, any citizen, here in the session room, must be punished irrevocably. And we're done with this chat room, and we're getting to a specific piece of legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u97	Honorable colleagues, such as a statement or a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u98	It's being announced. Leaders need to collect factions, don't they? The Conciliation Council, Ivan Grigorovich? No, you don't. A break of up to 11 hours is announced for 50 minutes. And I'm going to continue to suggest that we don't take a break at 12 o'clock, of course. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our fruitful work. Two factions required a break according to the Rules. Accordingly, once again, they have the right to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for which they have proposed a recess. Please, three minutes. Who will act? Olesia Donya. After a minute and a half, please just invest in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we're not just dealing with the savage beating of national MPs, we're dealing with the collapse of democracy in Ukraine and the establishment of authoritarian regimes. This is a system of bodily harm. On April 27, I recall that the national MPs were also beaten, and I am still not recognized by the prosecution as victims. I will remind you that in Donetsk, the wife of the newly elected rector is beaten, which is unacceptable to the Ministry of Education. So we're dealing with the physical destruction of the opponents. Next. In addition, criminal cases against political opponents have been opened: Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka Next. In addition, the SBA manages the work and calls on public activists. That's the third one. Four. U.S.A. is working with university rectors, as mentioned earlier by the Rector of the Catholic University, Boris Goodzak. Fifth. International funds, Conrad Adenauer Foundation and the International Rebirth Fund are under pressure. Six. There's a system of censorship in the media. So we're dealing with a clear system of destroying democracy and establishing an authoritarian regime right now. So the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is coming out of the session room today, and it requires retraining to prevent the activities of state actors in the fight against serious bodily harm. And he thinks that at least this should end the destruction of democracy and the establishment of an authoritarian regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u101	Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u102	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, what today can be called a very difficult “information from the Attorney-General” should have been done in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules in another way. According to 122 articles of the Constitution and 240 articles of the Rules, the Attorney General was to stand here. That's the first one. The other one. We all feel there's a shift in accents. Violent beatings, sadistic beatings by a group of other MPs are turned, thanks to the prosecutor’s office, into a fight where those who know who did it shift their focus from beating to obstructing activity. Who got in the way of the 19th and the 1 0s in the rostrum? So, if you'll excuse me, it was a beating with objects, especially chairs. In Salamatín, this sadism has become systemic. He beat himself in the revenge of his armchair to death, and no one broke the case. But it does paint a general picture. If you put this whole mosaic together, a system of repression started in Ukraine. These reprisals apply primarily to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Deputy Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, these reprisals refer to national MPs and ordinary people. I'd like to thank the press today, who have stayed without looking at the pressure, on this balcony and have brought to the public the very fact of this beating. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that without investigating the role of Azarov, who couldn't help but know that his Sadist governmentmen are coming here solely for the hand battle, for the Mordecai of the Supreme Council. I would like to define the role of Janukovich, who somehow does not take them away from positions in the government if the Supreme Council cannot release them, that is the situation. I'd like to get an answer: Who kicked out journalists? Who gave the command? Who turned off the light? Who gave the command? Who opened the door? Who gave the command? Without defining these concepts, we're going to have distorted information. So until such a report with these emphasises is available, we also have no opportunity to participate in the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u103	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Let's keep working. What's more, yesterday we held consultations and agreed, especially when such a decision is voted, then the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be continued, namely: providing information from the Attorney General's Office. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we continue our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. Before considering the issue of ratification. Dear colleagues, on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. Rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine Rodovko Volodymir Mihajlovich and co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee in Foreign Affairs, Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich. Dear colleagues, since this is a positive conclusion, I am voting on this document to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:56:47]] For-189 Decision taken. Please report from the Ukrainian Security Service, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u104	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, on the basis of the Ukrainian Cabinet's decree of December 12, 1979, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. The Treaty, signed on 29 June 2009 in Ohrid, Republic of Macedonia, with the aim of creating legal principles for the protection of information with limited access, in the process of interacting with foreign political, economic, scientific and technical, military and security cooperation. The agreement is consistent with international practice and ensures an equal partnership. According to articles 2 and 32 of the Law on State Secret and Article 9 of the Law on International Contracts, it is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Law is in line with all interested ministries and conclusions of the Ministry of Justice in accordance with the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. The ratification of this agreement does not entail the adoption of new or amending existing legislation in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u105	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Taras Viacheslavovich Cnerovola.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. And, as always, competently weighed, carefully analyzed all nuances, made a positive decision regarding the agreement. As far as the text is concerned. It's completely standard in its formulation. There's no difference between the agreements that we're constantly ratifying on this issue. The analysis confirmed that there are no new formulations that might raise doubts. Differences may relate solely to the naming of graffiti for secret or restricted access to information in the Macedonian language. Because in this case, the principle is that each country within its own legislation gives a graph in its own formulations. As far as the acceptance of this act is concerned. Although we do not have enough contact with Macedonia today, it does exist. They contain information about visits that may take place. It refers to the exchange of commercial information that is needed for the cooperation of both countries, and it can cause interest in third parties that may be interested in, say, throwing Macedonia out of certain markets, or removing Ukraine from certain markets. After 2003, 2002, 2004, when there was the maximum concentration of Ukrainian-Macedonian relations, today it's been slightly reduced, but there's a flow of information. Today, information exchanged between the two countries is traditionally kept normal, but it is. Since this is not regulated by law, there are risks that it may at some point be illuminated, sounded, or so forth. That is why we need to settle this. Our committee, the National Security and Defence Committee, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Regulatory Committee, the Budget Committee, have no warnings and ask for support. Please ratify it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are no warnings to put this question to the vote? No one insists on the performance? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. [[Registration number 0188]] Please vote. [[12:01:31]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, dear colleagues, we need to consider ratifying the International Association for Seed Quality Control. I would like to take a vote to consider the proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:02:02]] For 205 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy, Yakubovich Igor Valentinović. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil. In fact, I'd like to ask for your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is designed to implement part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. The purpose of the adoption of the law is the full acquisition by Ukraine of membership in the International Seed Quality Control Association, participation in the development, adoption and publication of standard seed sampling procedures, seed analysis, and the promotion of the same application of these procedures for assessing seed in circulation in international trade. [[INSTITUTION]] The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law allows Ukraine to integrate into the international marketing network of seeds, to issue certificates of an international model for the quality of seeds, which is determined by all member countries of this international association. In this way new opportunities are opened, new opportunities are offered for the sale of domestic seed on the international market under equal conditions. I've been asked by the police to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u109	Thank you, you too. Have a seat, please. Taras Vjačeslavovich, conclusion of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow members of the people's deputies, I repeat. Our committee, as always, was very attentive, very competent and comprehensive in considering the matter, studying all the circumstances. Today, laws are in force in Ukraine. In particular, the Seed Act and the gardening material are governed by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, such as the International Association for Seed Quality Control and others. Following these principles, the Ukrainian side has a direct interest in full membership in the International Association for the Control and Quality of Seeds. So far, we've had a very thinning, essentially lost our seed fund. It's about to be reborn. There is an opportunity to go seriously to the seed fund markets in Europe without full membership we will always have a damaged situation there. In this regard, our committee, the Agrarian Policy Committee and all other interested parties support the ratification of the agreement. Acceptance in the future, the adoption of this agreement entails some budget expenditure on membership fees of some 6,000 Swiss francs, 30 of something thousands of Ukrainian bracelets. However, there is a clear form of implementation of these obligations through the Special Fund, since there is funding at the expense of the payment of services, such as the Ukrainian National Seed Inspection. Hence, the issue is fully agreed upon, and there is no problem with it. There's a problem in one thing. The law submitted for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine was filed with a considerable error. It was edited, the contract, more faithfully, was made in the 2007 edition. And that was reflected in the law. After examining this in conjunction with the scientific and expert office, we concluded that the following words should be added in the text of the law: after the words “amendments adopted in the city. [[I'm announcing it for the transcript.]] in 2007, add the words: “in the city of Zurich in 2009 and in the city of Cologne in 2010”. In this case, we become full participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u112	international integration, we have the opportunity to work fully in the seed market of the world and Europe. And that's good for Ukraine. Please support this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! That is also the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the need for clarifications that our colleague Taras Crnowil has mentioned. Is there no other reason? With respect to this clarification, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft law on ratification of the International Association for Seed Quality Control. Please vote. [[12:06:43]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Because you and I have agreed and made such a decision that Wednesday is an opposition day that will be considered by the factions who are not members of the parliamentary majority. So I would like to ask you now to actively also work and consider these issues, and make wise decisions about them. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending articles 152 and 153 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the increase of the fine for infringement of the rules of the urban area]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Shemchuk Viktorovich. Because, dear fellow Members, I would like to vote on the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:08:01]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Since there is no reporter, I ask Viktor Viktorovich to announce the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement was reviewed by the People's Deputy, the draft Act amending articles 152, 153 of the Code of Administrative and Legal Violations. [[on the increase of the fine for infringement of the rules of the urban area]] The bill was tabled at the suggestion of many heads of local self - government authorities and aims to bring the city’s population in line, to strengthen its administrative responsibility for wrongdoing in this area. The adoption of the bill will enable local budgets to be replenished and will move the operators to properly implement the rules on cleanliness and order, protecting green plantings, and other greening objects. Having examined the draft Law amending articles 152 and 153 of the Code of Administrative Offences, the Committee considers it possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on its first reading as a basis. However, it should also be noted that the status of article 152 of the Code of Administering has already been changed, and its current current version is more perfect. In preparing for the second reading, the committee will therefore propose to focus on changes to article 153 of the Code of Administrative Violations. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the committee made a positive decision on the bill. The main scientific and expert department believes that the bill is to be rejected. Which of the deputies insists on expressing their point of view on this matter? Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please. Well, please, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I have no doubt in my mind about the competence of the Main Committee of Profiles, but I have a question: What is the point of this bill? It says: “To increase fines for trespassing. The following points are made: Citizens from 170 to 340, officials from 170 to 255, Remember these figures. In the current legislation there is already the same disorder, I say, from 340 to a thousand 360 for citizens and for officials – 850 - a thousand 700. So this bill needs to be called another – about reducing fines for infringements. It's not clear. Maybe you can explain. If that is true, then there is no point in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u117	Please, Victor Schemchuk. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The point is that the bill was passed in February 2009. Then, indeed, article 152 was changed. And I'm in my speech, and when I read the committee's position, I said that there would be no change in 152 articles, and in preparing for the second reading, we should focus only on article 153 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations, which has not been changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? None. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Adoption of the Draft Law (4070) to amend articles 152 and 153 of the Code on Administrative Offences (to increase the amount of fine for violating the rules of the city). Please be sure. [[12:12:20]] For the five of us. In view of this level of support, I declare the bill rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on compensation for damages in the discharge of a person from criminal liability or punishment]] [[4486]] Dear colleagues, there's a request here from Karmazin that we postpone the consideration of this issue, because it will come to pass. Please, let's postpone. You don't have to vote, do you? The question was put off. Now, honourable colleagues, your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the harmonization of individual standards with the Constitution of Ukraine]] Asked to consider the matter in a simplified manner. [[12:13:38]] For-183 Decision taken. Victor Schemchuk, please make the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A draft Ukrainian law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine was submitted by the National MP of Ukraine. [[on the harmonization of individual standards with the Constitution of Ukraine]] In support of the above - mentioned bills, the following was put into effect. Ukraine’s main law, the Constitution, provides for the right of the President of Ukraine to pardon those who have committed crimes. As a result of this constitutional position, other areas of criminal, criminal and criminal legislation are affected by this institution in some way or another. The analysis of valid criminal and criminal law rules at first sight gives rise to the conclusion that there is a perfectly legitimate legislative basis for the application of pardons not only for convicted persons but also for other citizens who have committed crimes. However, this conclusion does not correspond to either the letter or the spirit of the Constitution of Ukraine. Yes, the Basic Law of the State enshrines the principle of presumption of innocence in a clear and unambiguous formulation of part one of article 62, namely, that a person is found innocent of committing a crime and cannot be punished in a criminal way until his guilt is brought to justice and established by the indictment. In view of such a constitutional provision, the President of Ukraine in the pardon clause, although referring to article 106, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not limit the possibility of pardoning the convicted, logically extended the operation of this legal act, exclusively to persons whose faults have been established by the indictment. However, the relevant rules of criminal and criminal law are contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, so they cannot be applied in practice. The draft law was discussed at the committee meeting on March 3, 2010. As a result of the consideration, the committee noted that the amendments proposed by the bill would enhance the perfection of the legal regulation of the institution of pardon as one of the important national functions of the President of Ukraine. As a result of the first reading, it is proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis and generally as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's conclusion has proved to you that it is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Is there any other way of thinking? Who insists on making this statement? I can't see. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole. Right, Victor Viktorovich, am I making an offer? On the basis and as a whole, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the harmonization of individual standards with the Constitution of Ukraine]] [[12:16:50]] For two. In connection with this level of support, I announce that the bill has been rejected. Now, in time, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of an external independent assessment of the quality of education. Dear colleagues, I have been asked by the Robber, Lesia the Robot, to postpone the hearing. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote, but she just explained it for reasons unrelated to political motives. I have to get to your knowledge, because you insist on looking into it, so I'm going to put a motion on the vote to postpone the consideration of the bill. [[Registration numbers 5544, 5544-1]] Please vote. [[12:18:01]] For the four of us. My proposal, in line with the request of the national MP, was unfortunately not supported. Please, let us consider this question. Then I ask you to consider it as a reduced procedure. These are two bills: 5544 and 5544-1. [[12:18:33]] For 190 Decision taken. Reporters: Ukrainian national deputies Viacheslav Kirilenko and Lesia Orobec I've already talked about the reasons why there's no workman, no circumstances of absence, no information. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u122	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian National MP Kirilenko on the draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of an external independent assessment of the quality of education. [[Registration number 5544]] As well as the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an external independent assessment of the quality of education and the establishment of responsibility for the infringement, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Polochal, Orobec, Kuril, Dawimuk, Donny, Pavlenko. [[Registration number 5544-1]] The drafts are similar to the content and provide for amendments and additions to the basic Education Act of Ukraine to incorporate only the basic rules that form the legal basis for external independent evaluation. [[Registration numbers 5544 and 5544.]] In doing so, major changes are also proposed for the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, the General Secondary Education Act. It is proposed to include in the Ukrainian Higher Education Act the definition of the term “external independent evaluation of knowledge”, “external independent evaluation of the knowledge of persons wishing to enter higher education institutions”. Bills are proposed to supplement article 183 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for responsibility for violations of the right to education in the conduct of external independent evaluation and in the use of its results. An additional article 330 is proposed, which provides for criminal responsibility for the deliberate disclosure of confidential information. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on both drafts are positive. And the committee is proposed as a result of the discussion, and the committee has decided to adopt Bill 5544 and Bill 5544 as a basis for the first reading. [[fraction]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u123	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u124	Having united them in their work and preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u125	Yes, dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Please, Catherine Samuel. Then there's Taras Cranville. And then. Then there's Taras Cranvill and then there's Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I appeal to you because plagiarism cannot be united. The plagiarism is plagiarism. Practically both bills are one in a row, as if they came out of one water. Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on one issue, decided to reject it, on the other, for further work. But our committee also, although not the main one, considered this issue. I want to tell you that the Ukrainian Higher Education Act has been drafted so far, which will include positions that are really essential. First. The other one. I want to say another thing that we've worked out, according to your comments, a number of us will speak such normative acts that are practically transparent in independent knowledge assessment. First. We're going to count the average. This increases the incentive of children to go to high school in general. It's never been done before. It was possible not to study and pass tests, and everything would be fine. Second, there's a limited number of documents in the jail. You know, the last year, we broke all the records: we had students who were almost 100 years of university writing. We've narrowed it down. Well, and really, look, those who have graduated from school before, we're giving them an alternative, we're giving them an opportunity to enter a higher education facility through exams. I believe that this bill and I very much ask colleagues who are present in this room to vote in favour of rejecting this bill and I want to assure you that it is the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will all work together on a law that will be modern, transparent and will allow a dream to come true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u127	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u128	equal access to higher education. Please support the proposal for deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u129	Yes, Taras Cranville, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Judging from the moods in the room, we can say that probably both of these bills, they're really very similar, they're going to be rejected. And I'm a little bit sorry that here, in this case, it's not the logic of a very clear, scrupulous approach to drafts, but it's the logic that takes over politically. The point is that the Education Act, which will reflect a number of norms related to the balance between independent external evaluation, exams, mid-level attestation, etc., does not cover a number of problems related, including responsibility, to control, etc. that go just beyond the Education Act. They need to be settled. Perhaps I fully agree that this law is far from normal. But we can't leave the white spots. Since the law is, since the bill is introduced to the Supreme Council, it would be most logical to adopt it in the first reading, to work very thoroughly in accordance with the concepts that are today, not by adding, not by violating 116 articles of the Rules, but by removing those things that may be contrary to the basic standards that are now involved in education, but at least by law a number of norms would be well taken into account. It is a pity if these bills are simply rejected completely in the stage of preparation for the first reading, and we will have further in the legislative field certain holes that cannot be filled only by the new amended Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u131	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u132	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to push away from what Taras Cnerwell said. That is, they cannot remain in legislation that deals with such an important problem, such as, say, an important phenomenon in Ukraine, as an independent external evaluation. These bills are just some of the holes, let's say they're closing or blocking, and here's the big holes. And here I would say that we have to conceptually fit. If you make changes, if you make a new edition, you will probably have to look at all the problems in a complex way. In principle, you could vote for this bill as a basis if there were no one flaw, one hole that I think is very important. In accordance with article 12 of the Education Act and article 37 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act, the special authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science is empowered to establish a list of subjects for external independent evaluation. And here, attention! It turns out that the same list of such subjects is set for all higher education institutions, regardless of the type of establishment, the profile, and so forth. And I think in making changes to the situation, you would have to take that into account. There can't be the same list of objects in external evaluation in the theater VU and in the aviation VU, it's nonsense and it's absurd. So I would suggest, perhaps, that we not reject them, but that we ask the legislators to work on them, work on them, so that we don’t go back again in three weeks, and then a month before the new changes. If there are holes, they must be filled at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u133	Yes, the distinguished national deputies, all who showed a desire to speak, took advantage of that right. The committee proposes to adopt it as a basis for both bills. The main scientific and expert office also believes that these bills can both be adopted as a basis. I'll put them to the vote in a row. I am voting on the bill, registration number 5544, 5544, amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of an external independent assessment of the quality of education. Please identify yourself. [[12:28:51]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. I am now voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of Bill 5544-1, amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an external independent assessment of the quality of education and the establishment of responsibility for the infringement. Please identify yourself. [[12:29:27]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it was suggested that the bill should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. I'm voting on this proposal. [[12:29:56]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Bills 5544, 5544-1 were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation against bribery. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[12:30:32]] For 196 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Shemchuk Viktorovich. Yes, the reporter is missing. Please, Victor Viktorovich, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u134	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, the honourable present, the Committee on Law Enforcement, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on anti-fraud. The bill aims to strengthen the effectiveness of the fight against bribery and corruption. At the same time, it should be pointed out separately that most of its provisions are proposed for the settlement of the recently submitted Ukrainian President's draft Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the Ukrainian Amnesty Act. The essence of this is to increase criminal responsibility for one of the corruption activities: bribery. In particular, according to article 368, a particularly large size is considered to exceed an untaxed minimum of citizens’ income by 500 or more, and the bill proposes that this limit be reduced to 300 untaxed minimums. In 2009, 500 untaxed minimums amounted to 152 thousand dollars, a corresponding 300 - 91 thousand 200 bracelets. In article 368, a list of officials who hold a responsible or particularly responsible position is also supplemented by officials of the local self - government of the relevant categories. There is also an increase in the age of deprivation of liberty for bribery on a particularly large scale, carried out by a responsible official and for bribery associated with other crimes. Also associated with knowingly illegal detention, assault, arrest, and detention, attracting a well - knownly innocent to criminal responsibility. It is also done by an investigator, prosecutor, or other person authorized by the law. A judge is informed of an unfair sentence, judgment, approval, or judgment. The bill under review was implemented in accordance with article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council. The main scientific and expert management on the results of the first reading of the bill recommends that we go back to work. However, after considering the bill, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft bill be adopted as a basis for consideration at the plenary session in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u135	Yes, dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u136	Oleg Lazko. Well, it's quite obvious that today's parliamentary majority is not going to support this bill. Obviously, there is good reason to say that similar standards are contained in the bill passed by the President. But I would like to draw public attention to the fact that yesterday the Supreme Council repealed earlier laws to increase the fight against corruption. And these laws, which had to work since January 1st, unfortunately won't work. That is, there is only talk of fighting corruption today. But nothing really happens. Because today's authorities are obviously not interested in a real fight against corruption. Because the media are full of information about the corruption of today’s government. Unfortunately, however, the Attorney General does not see anything criminal in these actions. Instead, he sees only crimes in the actions of opposition representatives. That's why I'm going to vote in favour of this law. I also address the majority, realizing that they will not vote, but I ask them to support this law. Because, people good, you all know that from the bottom to the top, no step is normal, a simple person can't step in without paying bribes, starting with the help of the Elders and ending up at the Kabin level, at the President's level, and so on. So that's where we end up. For whatever economic reforms we have not undertaken, either the President or any government, these economic reforms will never succeed when corruption devours the state. Whatever the budget's income, when money is stolen from the budget, it eats, and there will be no economic growth in the country, nor will there be any improvement in the real life of the people. The main problems in our country today are economic poverty and corruption. And it is with these two problems that we have in common -- both opposition and power -- to deal with these problems. Regrettably, the authorities are demonstrating their unwillingness to deal with corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u137	Yes, Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u138	Before we throw at the parliamentary majority, I'd like the operators to show us today is the day of opposition. Today, all the bills and regulations that we are considering are initiated by opposition. I would like to draw attention to the fact that virtually no person from the opposition in the session room is present. Moreover, I emphasize to all of our radio audiences. All the people who left the session room will receive a salary for today. On your count, Your Honor. You heard about the information from the Attorney General's Office, which was Vodoplasova Vodoplasova. You heard him scream about it. And in fact, on your neck, blood is sucked from you and better, it is considered necessary to leave the hall and not to take part in the discussion of a very important issue. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the bill, because we know how the presidential elections went, how the Stabilisation Fund was issued to some incomprehensible issues of trustees' terrible money, which was written down before the announcement of the new President. Is this a Stabilisation Fund called? And for bribes, because part of the money came back to those who were initiating and issuing that money. I mean, I think this is the principle of the position of opposition that they're not present, because this law of Ukraine would be the first thing that would work for them, because it would have to be responsible for embezzlement of the government's sentence, for embezzlement of the Stabilisation Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u139	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u140	No, it's not. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u141	Oh, no? Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. In such a sequence, in accordance with the Rules, I will put this proposal to the vote. I first propose adopting a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation to counter bribery. [[7072]] [[12:38:27]] For-49 The decision is not taken. I'm going to put the second one to the vote. We're going to vote now. I'm betting on a second motion to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to work. [[12:38:58]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Now, one minute. Region Party – 138, “BUT – Fatherland” – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 8, Communists – 24, People's Party – 19, non-fractional – 20. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies, distinguished voters! I want to explain the position of the Party of the Regions. For the first time this year, we came up with a policy of adopting systemic reforms, not local holes. And what they're trying to make is that if someone pushes someone in line for beer, and we have to make changes to the legislation, of course, we can bring them in, but we'll bring them in, and The President introduces a comprehensive package of anti-corruption laws, systematic. It's not a patch of holes that's been done for the past five years. And it honours today's Parliament, today's cadence, that this year this mandate takes systematic decisions on judicial reform, judicial reform, tax reform, administrative reform, the fight against corruption, and so, step by step, we will systematically reform the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, once again, the bill has been rejected. Now you have a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Rights for Goods and Services. [[on harmonization with the Ukrainian Civil Code and adaptation to EU legislation]] The rapporteur is Stephen Dávimuk, co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Education and Science, Lutsky Maxim. I'm betting on the voting proposal that just came out to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:41:07]] For-200 Decision taken. The reporter is missing for political reasons, so the co-reporter is the first deputy. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on Science, Maxim Lutsky's education, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u144	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education discussed at its meeting on 31 March 2010, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Rights to Signs for Goods and Services, harmonizing with the Civil Code of Ukraine and adapting to EU legislation, No. 2748. The aim of the proposed bill is to remove the differences between the Civil Code of Ukraine and the current Act on the Protection of Rights for Signs of Goods and Services, as well as to bring the latter into line with European Union legislation, in particular, the first, first, EU Council Directive 89/104 of 21 December 1988, EU Directive 4094 of 20 December 1993 and the third EU Directive No. 100. In 1383, with regard to the actions of customs authorities against goods suspected of violating intellectual property rights and measures to be applied against goods in the event of confirmation of intellectual property rights violations. The main scientific and expert management considers it appropriate to return the draft to the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The bill is supported by the Committees on Legal Policy and Budget. With its adoption, we believe that Ukraine’s legislation on trade marks will be brought into line. That is why the Committee on Science and Education supported the bill, but after it. The way we looked at it and supported it, there were tremendous amounts of statements, letters, points of view, and we think it would be appropriate to send it back for a second first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. First. There was a committee decision: to take the basis, then the proposal, to re-read. I will, with your permission, put to the vote in the same sequence in accordance with the Rules, namely: the adoption of the draft Act amending the Law on the Protection of Rights for Goods and Services, the harmonization with the Civil Code of Ukraine and the adaptation to EU legislation. [[12:43:55]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Second offer. It's about re-reading the bill. [[Registration number 2748]] [[12:44:17]] For-33 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please, I am putting to the vote the proposal to return to the consideration of the question of the return to the proposals for the first reading of this bill. Back to the subject, please. [[12:45:08]] For 234 We're back. I now put to the vote a proposal for a bill to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Please vote. [[12:45:36]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on compensation for damages in the discharge of a person from criminal liability or punishment]] [[Registration number 4486]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, co-rapporteur Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich. In view of your proposal, I am voting on the issue of a reduced procedure. Provided that you continue to work productively. [[12:46:18]] For 204 Decision taken. Please report. It's not me, it's the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u146	I understand. But no one gave it. Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! For a year and a half, the bill went to this room — a year and a half. And each of you receives letters from Ukrainian citizens who say, protect us from being harmed by crime and not being compensated. And our legislation does not protect us. As one of the authors of this book, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, I now see that she is 10 years old and needs to be amended here. These changes are, in particular, foreseen and should be envisaged in accordance with the Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power and the European Convention for the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes, which exists and raises the question of paying more attention to the physical, psychological, material, and social harm suffered by the victim. [[This was accepted by the UN General Assembly.]] In the application of criminal law institutions, such as the release from criminal liability and punishment, the authorities of judicial investigation and the courts today come out solely of the protection of the rights of the person who committed the crime, leaving out the right of the victim to compensation for the damage that was caused by the commission of the crime. In order to address these issues, with a view to effectively providing compensation for the victims caused by the commission of the crime, the bill, which has been drafted entirely by the authors of the various political forces, proposes to amend articles 47, 53, 76, 82, 83, 85, 86 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and 7 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[This is Bondick, Mishchenko, Prokopchuk, Dry, Sokolov]] Ukraine’s KPC to determine such compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u148	I'm done, thank you. One of the conditions under which a release from criminal liability may be applied is the transfer of a person to a person’s custody and release from punishment with a trial. Either the unspent part of the punishment has been replaced with softer, or the release of pregnant women and women who have children. In addition, the bill proposes not to apply the institution of exemption from criminal liability on the basis of the Amnesty Act, leaving the possibility of exemption only after a criminal case has been tried. These are articles 44, 74, 86 of the Criminal Code and 6 of the CPC. And extend the terms of release from criminal liability for crimes of moderate gravity. Therefore, the honourable national MPs, who had been waiting for a bill for a year and a half, were completely complex, were one that would serve all society today. And today our political power is blocking, accepting, so expressed in not participating in the session. I am today, given that this bill waits for a year and a half and a half, people are waiting for it, and I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u149	Shemchuk Viktorovich of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u150	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At a meeting of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection on 20 January 2010, a draft Act of Ukraine was considered to amend certain legislative acts, to compensate for damages in the release of a person from criminal liability, or to penalize Ukraine’s national deputies Karmazin, Bondik, Dryim and others. As already noted, the purpose of the bill is to harmonize the provisions of the current Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine and the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes and Other International and Legal Acts in the Field of Protection of the Rights of the Victims of Crime and Their Seizures. To this end, the bill proposes that the institution of discharge be waived on the basis of amnesty, leaving the possibility of being released only after the trial. In addition, the bill proposes to amend a number of articles of the Criminal Code in which compensation for victims can be found in one of the conditions under which relief from criminal liability may be applied. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u151	Dear colleagues who insist on the talk, please sign up. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, this is about the world’s common and common practice. Crime always has material traces. Usually, it's a material loss, a material loss. So when we discussed this bill, and when it came up, it came up a long time ago in writing this bill, I'd like to tell you, well, for two minutes, there's usually no way to explain the whole content of this legislation. But once again, I emphasize that this is a world practice. The adoption of this bill will not lead to any improvement in criminal law, confusion, and the practice of criminal punishment, and will result in negative consequences. This bill could be, well, if there's, for example, a warning, I see our scientific expertise there, if there's a warning, we could take the first reading, and make all the changes and additions that are proposed to the second reading. But in general, well, you know that no one has ever written the perfect law. I've never heard anyone come forward with an ideal bill, unless it's a short technical bill. This bill can be improved. We need to work on it. But I don't think we should reject this bill today because people really need it, especially those who have suffered as a result of their actions, with regard to members of their families, of some kind of crime or assault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:53:47]] For-12. The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. For processing. Please vote. [[12:54:16]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Here's another suggestion for re-reading. Please be sure. [[12:54:43]] For 252 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights to Inventory and Useful Models. [[on harmonization with the Ukrainian Civil Code and adaptation to EU legislation]] In summary, once again, I am required to consider the matter. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:55:28]] For 213 Decision taken. The reporter is Davemuk Stepan Antonovich. The Coroner is the first deputy chairman of the committee, Maxim Lutsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u154	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Committee on Science and Education considered at its meeting on 31 March 2010, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventory and Useful Models. [[author – Stepan Antonovich Davimuka]] The purpose of the bill is to introduce the norms and terminology of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventions and Useful Models into the Civil Code of Ukraine, and to adapt to European Union legislation. The main scientific and expert management considers it appropriate to return the draft to the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill on a case-by-case basis. The bill is also supported by committees on legal policy and budget issues. The Committee on Education and Science recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventory and Useful Models to be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis. [[author Davemuk]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u155	Yes, thank you. The report is complete. Who insists on the performance? Nobody insists? Please. Zarubinsky. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm literally half a minute. I'd just like to express my position next. This bill promotes greater protection of intellectual property. And this has to be a key sensation that obviously has to determine our vote. In the 21st century, the question of intellectual property and its protection is the question of the interest of talented people to develop new things, new developments. Staying out of the country and not selling them because that's where they can get their money, have a decent life. And ignoring the right of intelligence, the right to intellectual property degrades, more precisely leads to degradation and science and the scientific sphere, which means countries. So in our view, if this bill, and he said as a representative of the profiling committee, is aimed at raising the level, the degree of protection of intellectual property should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? None. The committee's proposal to accept the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management considers it appropriate to return the draft to pre-work. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventory and Useful Models. [[on harmonization with the Ukrainian Civil Code and adaptation to EU legislation]] 2749 is the registration number of the bill. [[12:58:56]] For 248 Decision taken. Your opinion, Your Honor, is proposed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, the proposal from the committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[on the cancellation of benefits when entering higher education institutions]] [[Registration number 5177]] I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[12:59:33]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Lutsky Maksim Georgievich Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Your view is on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (with regard to the abolition of benefits when entering higher educational institutions (registration number 5177), introduced by the national deputy Yavorowski. In Ukraine, in recent years, legislative practice has been developed to grant benefits to individual categories of citizens for their legal entrance to state and municipal higher education institutions in Ukraine. In all, there are eight categories of these. The negative results of this practice have become apparent since the introduction of external independent evaluation. When higher education institutions were unable to reach the highest demand budget sites, they were unable to reach the 180 points and higher. And the colleges themselves have lost the best students. The Ministry of Education and Science, at the request of the public and the rector’s corps, has decided to limit the number of places for the benefit categories of citizens to no more than 25 percent of the amount of government procurement from each direction of training in the specialities of each university. This has, in some ways, improved the introduction situation. However, the problem was not solved in general. At the same time, it should be noted that Ukraine has not yet created a level playing field in accessing quality secondary education for all citizens. Especially for the category of persons, such as the disabled groups I-II and children with disabilities of childhood, orphans and children without parental care, and others. Hence, refusing to give them the credit card is premature. Differences in benefits require a separate approach for each category of unprotected citizens and should be addressed in a comprehensive manner. Through the rehabilitation of preparatory offices in higher educational institutions, free-of-charge education, and the implementation of other programmes of Douzian entrants from the listed categories. So the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u159	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for the speech. Please report to the National Deputies. Yes, Schmel's Svetlana. Please, Katerina Samuels, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u160	Thank you very much. You know, I've been in opposition my whole life. I don't imagine that I and the political power I represent, the UK Company, once passed bills that violate the constitutional law of our people and narrow it down. And that's why, and I made that point on the committee, and on our faction, we're going to vote "against." Look at who the opposition from BUTU, from Fatherland, Yavorowski: children of orphans, children of parents. Those deprived of their parents ’ legal children, whose parents died, were children of the Chernobyl family, of the militia, of the military. And he suggests that all children be placed at the same level as those children who are almost 10 or 11 years of age, parents hire tutors and prepare to enter higher education institutions. Today is the day of opposition. If this is the opposition that proposes cutting off the rights of Ukrainian citizens and the unsecured, low-security ones themselves, I would like to ask the question: Who needs such opposition? Unless, here, I'm sorry, there's one place to wave and step out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and forget that there's also life outside the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's a category of people waiting for us and needing protection. And our committee, and the faction of the Company, and the Ministry of the Soviets and Science are supporting this bill, and we are all supporting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u161	Oleg Zarubinski, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u162	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Let's be honest. An abnormal situation is when a child who has studied well and has made up, for example, an external independent rating of 600 points or 590 out of three items, cannot go through simply because the 70 percentages are positive. It's an abnormal situation. But if the bill were to limit the number, the percentage, then it could be considered. It cancels here at all. And Catherine Samuel said it right, but what about equality of access to education? A child who is a disabled group I, who is an orphan, could not have the same starting conditions to prepare to enter a college on an equal footing with a cyanide who learns in a prestigious class. That's true, too. So wrongly, the extreme approach, I would say, yes, the radicalist approach is to undo the total potential of children who can't objectively have at this stage, at this stage, at the entrance stage, then they're catching up, by the way. And they're often catching up with both these kyans and these seniors, high schools and so on, because they're trying to learn. So the question has to be in this area: limit the number of drunks, but go to this bill, cancel it completely, it's not humane and it's not fair. [[What the Ministry of Profitability has to offer]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u163	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, it seems to me that this bill was based banally on the bill of honorary colleague Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Too bad he's not in the hall because I'd like to look into his honest eyes. The point is that the bill was introduced in the fall of 2009, when society had to have this stupid idea of then managing the Ministry of Education to eliminate the benefits. Probably under the influence of such a request not to be made by the government, Vladimir Yavorowski, introduced the bill. Apart from being immoral, this is what I've been talking about here, I want to support my colleague Catherine Samuelk's proposal to reject this bill, because it was true in Oleg Zarubinsky's statement that this is a violation of the constitutional rights of children with disabilities to children with disabilities themselves. Here I would ask you to take into account the following situation, your fellow Members of State, so we are talking about pension reform today. Ukraine is experiencing the second echo of a demographic catastrophe. And we're all going to see you, and you're going to see that during the 2011 campaign, we're going to have a lot of problems with the fullness of our graduates. We have to compete for every aboriginal, we have to engage. These children from such vulnerable families have to be able to create, give them the opportunity to prepare for their studies, because we continue to have difficult times in the very system of higher education or, as I used to say, in Minvuz, in the Ministry of Higher Education, and he is now the Ministry of Education. Therefore, this bill is certainly thoughtless, thoughtless, unbalanced, unthinkable, and gives nothing good to the community. Of course, this bill must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u165	Yeah, one minute, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u166	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Lazko. I, too, strongly oppose this bill. Of course, the author was evidently guided by the motives that there are many abuses in the use of these benefits. There are known cases of counterfeiting Chernobyl aids on disability, and so forth, in order to use the aid and join the college. But this bill, in the event of its adoption with boomerang, will primarily beat rural children, children from low-income families, who, unlike urban children, do not have the ability to hire a tutor, as well as provided families. Unfortunately, in many Ukrainian schools, especially rural schools, there is no Internet today, there are no computers, there are no textbooks, and then we want to get rid of these children into colleges, so we're going to take away any perspective. I mean, I think we should leave. So that these benefits remain for these designated categories of families, so that children from working families, from low-income families, have the same access to higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u167	Thank you. I have a request to make: As long as you have recently been in the same political power, have a weekend talk with a colleague who has introduced such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u168	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u169	How do you not have a bearing on this? It's not far from you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I find it difficult to explain what the author was guided by when he introduced such a bill, but it is the author’s business. I am voting on a proposal by the profile committee to support Bill 5177, a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the abolition of benefits when entering higher education institutions. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:09:48]] For 1 Yes, the offer only received one vote. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children is under consideration, registration number 4777. [[on the protection of the rights of children of war who are granted a pension under the law of another State]] There's a proposal for a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:10:27]] For a hundred and Offer supported. National MP Trofimenko. None. Please, from the Committee of Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The author of the bill, as well as the person authorized by the committee to report a bill from this rostrum, demonstrate political solidarity at the expense of the state. I believe that the citizens concerned by this bill should not suffer from it, and that is why I am on this rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons reviewed at its meeting on 17 March 2010 the draft Act amending the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. [[on the protection of the rights of children who are entitled to a pension under the law of another State]] [[Registration number 4777]] The bill proposes to increase the pension of war children by 30 per cent of the minimum retirement age. And these are the key words of this bill, regardless of which state they are appointed by law. According to the committee, the proposed standards should be in line with the standards of Ukraine’s international pension agreements. This is due to the fact that pensions to Ukrainian citizens living outside of Ukraine and to citizens of other countries who have come to Ukraine for permanent residence are made in accordance with the pension legislation of Ukraine and international agreements, agreements governing pension insurance. Meanwhile, the issue of pension insurance in Ukraine is governed by international treaties, agreements concluded with 21 countries. These contracts are divided into two types: contracts based on an territorial principle whereby the pension costs are incurred by the State in which the recipient resides and contracts based on a proportional principle, under which each contracting party appoints and pays the pension an appropriate and insurance service acquired in the territory of the State of that country. So the committee, after considering this bill and considering the social significance of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u171	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u172	Despite the fact that the scientific expertise suggests rejecting this bill as a result of the first reading, the committee, once again, stresses, taking into account the social consequences of this document, suggests that it be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u173	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? I then put to the vote the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children. [[on the protection of the rights of children of war who are granted a pension under the law of another State]] [[Registration number 4777]] [[13:13:46]] For-36 The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of War Children is under consideration. [[on pension payments]] [[Registration number 6038]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:14:17]] For 177 Offer supported. Please, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sokolov. None. From the committee, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! I reiterate that although I am not an official reporter for this bill, I am at this rostrum, understanding that those people who are supposed to receive such or other preferences should not suffer from the fact that someone in this room is showing political solidarity at the expense of the state. So this is Bill 6038. At its meeting on 17 March 2010, the Committee considered a bill on the social protection of children of war on the payment of pensions. The bill proposes article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children to be issued in a new edition, according to which children receive an increase of 30 percent of their living minimum for those who have lost their jobs each month. As of May 19, 2009, the Constitutional Court had confirmed the existence of gaps in the legislative regulation of determining the size of payments to war. This gap is the absence of a mechanism for calculating the minimum pension by age, 30 percent of which is expected to increase the pension for children of war, or monthly life support. And that's why the committee considered the bill. In view of this, the author evidently submitted the bill. The opinions of the committee were divided: 1 person voted in favour of the bill, 3 people abstained, and the committee’s decision was not supported. I'm going to express my position, which is that, in fact, I understand the intention of the author of the bill to support these people. But in fact, in the textual part that is today, it's not really a solution, because 30 percent is a viable one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u175	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u176	minimum pension, de facto, is the same amount. But nevertheless, there is such a bill, and we have to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u177	Yes, thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, one minute, Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u178	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! The children of war could be given two minutes, because that's exactly it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u179	With your experience, you can handle it in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u180	Just before the election, only the children of war are talking. The problem is that, right now in the Supreme Council, we're looking at a second law, which is kind of supporting children of war, but we're not speaking frankly and frankly to those children of war, one very important thing is that in the draft budget for the next year, there's no amount of pension payments for children of war. So we're passing laws, as if we're increasing these retirement payments to the children of war, and in reality, the government isn't funding a single penny. Just like in other categories of Ukrainian citizens who need social protection, who have given their lives to work with you here, but unfortunately the government doesn't find money for these people. So I propose and I apply to the government. The draft budget will be reviewed tomorrow. There will be a meeting of the Budget Committee at 5 p.m. today. I know that the proposals, including mine, that provide for payment to children of war, are rejected. I'm calling on the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u181	You said the right thing to do. That's right. Please give me a minute, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the point is that this law has been discussed by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and we have issued a warning to the government. Minfin must, in a shorter period, amend and supplement the Law on the Social Protection of War Children in order to clearly determine the payment of social assistance. The thing is, we don't need new laws. There is a law in force, and it makes the procedure clear. That's why war children go to court and they think the law doesn't work. But, colleagues, this bill is called from the stupid head to the sick or the sick. How can such increases in social benefits be made to those categories of people, contrasting with other categories of people. Then the participants in the war will receive less, let alone those who are rewarded with a special triumph in the background. We can't do that, we'll get the pensioners together. The law must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u183	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal in this case, probably the author of the bill, because the committee wasn't defined. On acceptance as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 6038 on the Social Protection of Children of War. [[on pension payments]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:13]] For-33 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[concerning the drawing of the mortgage on the basis of the executing notary]] [[Registration number 5039]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Let's take a look. [[13:20:47]] For a hundred and Offer supported. The author of the Zvaric bill. It's political. From the Committee of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, Legal Policy Committee Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u184	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to introduce you to a brief bill proposed by our colleague and my committee colleague, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. It deals with changes to the Laws of Banking, Notary, Enforcement, Mortgage, Mortgage Credit, Consolidated Mortgage Transactions, and Mortgage Certificates, which are called to exclude the possibility of notaries of executive inscriptions on real estate documents, unfinished building objects, property rights on them, which are subject to mortgages and corresponding confiscation of such property. National members of the committee support the stated initiative of the national deputy, since the existing order for the execution of the mortgage bill does not allow the notary to verify the existence of a court dispute on the legality of the debt, which in turn adversely affects the protection of citizens’ property rights. In line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill, registration number 5039, can be accepted as a basis. Taking into account the Legal Policy Committee's presentation, the Supreme Council is invited to adopt the bill on the first reading as a basis. In fact, briefly speaking, the problem is very simple. Very often, such executive notary inscriptions are taken out of a mortgage that is the subject of a dispute. Notarius makes sure that such an argument is not possible, makes an appropriate inscription, and becomes the owner of two subjects. On the one hand, one owner is identified in the dispute and one enforcer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u185	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u186	And by the way, it's different. So actually, in order to order this activity, we're canceling the right of a notary to make such an inscription and we're handing over all of these cases, which are the subject of conflicting approaches by the owners, to the courts. This will protect, first and foremost, the rights of citizens. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u187	Thank you. Have a seat. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yuri Romanovich has told us so well that we have only one thing left to support the bill of Zvarila. I am voting to support the bill in the first reading of number 5039, namely the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the drawing of the mortgage on the basis of the executing notary]] Please vote. [[13:24:28]] For 236 The bill was adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on arbitral tribunals is under consideration. [[concerning the granting of the right to form arbitral tribunals to civil organisations irrespective of their status]] [[Registration number 2175]] The author of the bill is Matvienko Anatoly. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:06]] For a hundred and Offer supported. Anatoly Sergiyovich is missing. The committee is Pritica Dmitry Mikitovic. The Justice Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u188	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered, at its meeting on 10 March 2010, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Third Courts, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies and Alexander Bondarem. [[concerning the granting of the right to form arbitral tribunals by civil organisations irrespective of their status]] [[Registration number 2175]] Having carefully examined the text of the bill, the comments that had come to the address of the Committee of the High Courts and the Ministry of Justice, which had critically appreciated the project, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a first reading review to return to the subjects the right of legislative initiative to finalize the draft Ukrainian Law. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the first reading of the project is that it is appropriate to go back to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u189	Thank you. Vote? Yes. I then put to the vote a motion for support in the first reading of Bill 2175 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on arbitral tribunals. [[concerning the granting of the right to form a court to a public organization irrespective of their status]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:27:03]] For -6 Not supported. There was an offer of one, a work in progress. I'm betting on this proposal, for further processing, to send the author to work on it. [[13:27:26]] For 185 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on the promotion of alcoholic beverages and beer]] [[Registration number 1014-2]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:28:00]] For 210 Offer supported. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, two minutes, please. Get ready for Shewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the first thesis begins: what has been going on in Ukraine in the last few years. A recent sociological study of a famous international company that worked in Ukraine for beer and alcohol companies. Today, the number of young people who drink alcoholic beverages, such as beer, has reached nearly 50 percent, under the age of 18. So we're now on one of the highest levels of teenage alcoholism in the world, which is among European countries. Moreover, if there is a survey in schools, this figure is higher, because children are not then afraid, secretly, and talk about what, and normally, is a fashionable way of life, we use it. The second thesis that I would like to talk about is the thesis that relates to today's legislation and the mechanism for dealing with advertising companies in today's legislation. We here in the session room have accepted a series of restrictions. We have forbidden, for example, to advertise vodka brands in the way they are. If you watch TV today, Ukraine can be successful only if we drink a particular vodka. It's a direct ban, we've banned it, but unfortunately, under different circumstances: the inactivity of the Nacra, the State Consumer Committee, nobody responds to it. Here I am for this advertisement: "A football without beer is not football", which directly violates the legislation I've been judging for the second year. My credit card is written because people take money and it comes out that if you don’t drink beer during football, you’re a crazy person. Another company, for example, developed the concept of beer patriotism. If you do not drink beer of such a trade mark, you do not love Ukraine, the Ukrainian State, and the Fatherland. Our proposals are very simple. To balance, we understand that we need to survive television, but still, to make the values more important than beer and alcohol, we suggest that we act: at daytime, at night we don't touch, at daytime we propose to ban brand advertising of vodka, at daytime, and at daytime to leave not a direct but a brand sign of beer. [[The children are sleeping at night, the young are asleep, let them go and advertise at night, God is with her]] What will that mean? That we are not contradicting European principles when, for example, we are sponsoring the Champions League, for example, beer companies. Then it's going to be that the beer company kind of represents the League of Champions -- it's allowed. But we prohibit direct advertising when, for example, 15 or 30 seconds, young people show that to be successful, beautiful, they need to drink beer, and they will all be running after you and enjoying it. So in fact, the two things we're proposing to do, we think, are extremely important, because then we're eliminating the serious conflict between the theory of values and the education of Ukraine and the practice. Because when parents and teachers at school tell their children that they should behave like this, and they come home, they turn on TV, they tell them what to do differently. So we have to bring our way of life into line with our theory. We're here for Ukrainian authority, for values, teachers speak, and in practice it's different. So I would like to support you in the first reading. There's a note, but the scientific expertise supports us, and the committee supports us. On the second reading, they are ready to debate technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u191	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andrew Shevchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u192	Good Health for All! My signature is also under a bill initiated and developed by the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Nicholas Tomenko. I now speak with the committee and have the authority to report that the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information supports Mr. Tomenko's legislative initiative. We advocate restrictions on the advertising of alcohol and tobacco, and we are aware that the situation is that the laws in force are not enough for these restrictions to work, including because we have both the media and the advertising market sufficiently liberally interpreting existing legislation, and because the controlling authorities do not fully perform their role to force these laws to work. The committee also had comments on the bill, but along with those remarks, it was ready to prepare the bill together for second reading. The position of the committee, we recommend that the Supreme Council support the adoption of this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u193	Thank you. Yes, are there willing to share in the discussion? One active smoker was found. Yeah, second, third. Yes, then please, Mr. Cranwell and Mr. Dry in a minute. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u194	Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, I will inform you that I am no longer a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u195	Oh, that's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u196	But this is primarily about a little bit of other branding. That's it. The question is not the very essence of the law. In principle, the bill is in the background of others who have recently been introduced to us, adopted, sufficiently adequate. Although we have in this area, the more you shout about smoking bans, the more dividends appear. I have another question. I just got a statistic from Nicholas Tomenko. The more we restrict beer advertising, the more alcoholic we have. As much as any of the Bumberg Foundation's records show. [[There's a question, by the way, about the involvement of some funds in the work of the Supreme Council. in the fight against alcoholism, smoking, the so-called fight, asked if there were suitcases with money]] It's not Mikli Tomenka and it's not his law that applies to others. But the less it's said that we have people smoking in Ukraine with these funds, the more oncology we have. So we're changing things a little bit. This law can be voted for in the first reading. In general, we need to approach this as a social problem. You have to destroy the base where people want to smoke, and you want to drink.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u197	Thank you. That's a good idea. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the explanatory note rightly states that this bill is a separate act that will contribute to the establishment of a healthy way of life. I just don't remember anyone drinking beer or vodka or smoking under the influence of advertising. So, of course, this bill needs to be adopted, it would be great if it were written comprehensively. Why the sponsors of football, sports, and sports are angry, evil. enemies of these sports and healthy lifestyles? The Law on Charity and Sponsorship is needed. One more. Who calculated how much evil, how much alcoholism causes young ones, young families? One more. With regard to drinking alcoholism, I am deeply convinced that it was invented by alcoholic barons to somehow squeeze out soft drinks. Well, last time, dear colleagues, if we're in Ukraine right now next year, we're not going to return out-of-school education institutions, group work, children's sports schools, whatever we're saying here, no matter how much we're doing to advertisers and our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u199	Do not use non-parliamentary terms. Question completed. The faction was by Alexander Mikolaiovich. I am voting on a proposal for support in the first reading of Bill 1014-2 of the Law on Amendments to the Advertising Act. [[on the promotion of alcoholic beverages and beer]] The author of the Tomenko Bill and others. Please vote. [[13:36:21]] For-47 Not supported. There's an offer: send for pre-processing. Please be supportive. [[13:36:42]] For 237 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children is under consideration. [[on the establishment of responsibility for failure to perform the duties of further care for a child born or adopted]] [[Registration number 4002]] The author of the Ukolov Bill. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:37:23]] For 201 Offer supported. I can't see the stakes. Please, from the Committee of Catherine Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u200	Honorary colleagues, the committee at the meeting discussed the draft Law amending the Law on State Aid to Families with Children, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Ukolovi. [[on the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the obligation to continue to care for a child born or adopted]] The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children, which provides for the obligation of parents or guardians and adoptive parents to return the assistance they receive when they are born or adopted, in the event that they do not carry out their duties to continue caring for the adopted child. The Committee, while supporting the overall need to strengthen the responsibility of parents and guardians and adoptive parents for the upbringing of a child, to create an adequate environment for development and family growth, notes that the bill does not contain rules that would allow for the legitimate objective implementation of the powers of the State to foresee the return of the child’s birth and adoption. The bill does not define persons who will determine the failure of guardian parents and adoptors to care for a child born and adopted and the criteria under which such an assessment will be carried out. The absence of the mechanism may lead to abuse and, as a result, to a violation of part three of article 22 and part three of article 51 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a first reading review, that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The Budget Committee concludes that the proposed bill will not have an impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. The main scientific and expert office came to a general conclusion that the first reading of the bill made it appropriate to send for further work. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, following a first reading review of the return of the subject. [[establishing responsibility for failure to perform the duties of further caring for a child born or adopted]] [[Registration number 4002]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u201	Finish up. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, don't you need to? So you understand, the name is good, the name is very good. But when you read the contents, it is not a better situation but a worse situation. So let's listen to both the committee's conclusions and the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that don't support, that don't support. And the author himself understood, perhaps because he asked to be called off. But since we have considered it, I am voting for the support of Bill 4002 – the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:02]] For-0 No voice. The bill is rejected, and more than that, the author asks for it. Let's move on to the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. It is proposed to include in the agenda the draft Act amending article 116 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" on the drafting of draft laws. [[Bill 7353 registration number]] This is a bill of the King and others. I'd like to make a statement. Integrating into the agenda. [[13:41:46]] For-0 The bill is not included. And there's an offer, my dear colleagues, to include in the order of the daily bill number 7382. [[Serbian, Polachenko and other national deputies]] This is about amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. It's about honorary colleagues, the bill agrees with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Ministry of Finance, so that within the framework of financing the Ministry of Construction and Regional Policy, it can be allocated to 450,000 to pay. I'd like to include in the order of the day's bill number 7382. Please vote. They do, we vote. The Ministry, the more you know, it's bound to be shortened, reorganized, sorry. [[13:42:44]] For 219 I repeat, Your Honor, I ask you to organize. Who's in favour of returning to question 7382, please vote. [[13:43:10]] For 247 We're back. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7382 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. Please vote. [[13:43:38]] For 247 Thank you, it's on. The meeting continues for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you will be able to reach the committee. A draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens is under consideration. [[on the right to unify citizens]] Registration number 2511. Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u202	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered observations and suggestions from the legislators of the legislative initiative to the draft Law on Amendments to Article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens. [[on the right to bring citizens together to justice in the interests of its members]] [[Registration number 2511]] The bill itself proposes to determine that the rights of registered citizens’ associations to represent and defend their legitimate interests and legitimate interests of their members in public and public bodies are the right of citizens to appeal to the court for protection of their rights, freedoms and interests. During the drafting of the bill for second reading in the form of a comparative table, the committee received three proposals and amendments from seven Ukrainian national deputies, including: 3 included, including 2 in part. The Committee recommends the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading to adopt a bill as a whole. No comments were received from the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Office. He's in agreement without notice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all proposals are taken into account. Not all of them? Ah, Chernobyl, partially accounted for. Please, it's a Blackwolf microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u204	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished reporter! The point is that when this law was adopted and I was adopted, a number of deputies were saying that it was an outright Ryder law. An organization that has actually sent all the MPs a proposal for acceptance is, according to some, specializing in raids. They needed some of their structures, which were organized by public organizations, to be able to submit without knowledge and without neglect members, such as garden societies, housing cooperatives, and so forth. To lose these things and then to capture certain objects through third parties. I made an amendment that made it very clear that it was only by consent of the person who was entitled to stand up. This is not about defending the rights of a public organization but about defending the rights of a person. Because the law allows without the consent of the individual to claim his or her rights. It's a Raider scheme. I ask you either to consider my amendment or to reject this bill at all. It's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u205	Thank you. Yes, perhaps we will. I'm voting on a proposal from Chernobyl. I'd like to make up my mind. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u206	The committee counted it in part. [[13:47:26]] Z-11.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u207	Not supported. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the bill, number 2511, of the Act amending article 20 of the Law on the Unification of Citizens. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:47:55]] For two. The law is rejected. Draft Act 3312 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens is under consideration. [[about naming]] Second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u208	At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, at its meeting on November 10, 2010, considered comments and suggestions from law - abiding entities to the bill. The bill proposes the name of citizens’ associations to prohibit the use of word associations that are similar to the names of public authorities or local authorities, their structural units, which give the impression that they belong to these organs. During the drafting of the bill for second reading in the form of a comparative table, the committee received 4 suggestions, amendments from 5 Ukrainian national deputies, of which 4 are included, including one in part. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on November 18 that the bill could be adopted in a second reading, provided that the comments made were taken into account. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the bill in its second reading to be adopted as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u209	Thank you. We'll vote. All adjustments are included. But I would like to speak to the representative of Kabminu. Please Deputy Minister Lutkovska Valeria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u210	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is undoubtedly very important and very relevant. But I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Law “On the Unification of Citizens” itself is outdated. It does not meet European standards. He does not respond to today’s state of affairs in this area. In this regard, we feel that making specific changes to this law is not appropriate. Here you have to take into account the complex changes. And we need to make changes in a complex way. In this regard, we propose, in this case, not to support the bill, but to develop a comprehensive law that will address all issues relating to the unification of citizens at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u211	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption in the second reading and in the whole bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens. [[about naming]] [[Registration number 3312]] I'd like to make a statement. Taking into account the position of Minsk. [[13:50:56]] For the four of us. The bill was rejected. We are considering the draft Law No. 4679 amending the Code on Nadars for the Extraction of Drinking Groundwater. Glasun's Sergei from the committee, please. I don't see him. Then let us carry out his mission. Here, almost all the amendments, except for Hare, Stick, and Carmazin, are included. Nobody insists? I then vote on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Code of Nards on the Extraction of Drinking Groundwater. Bill 4679 registration number. Please vote. [[13:51:57]] For the 220. Dear colleagues! Relax. Who's in charge of coming back? We're voting for a return. [[13:52:16]] For 241 We're back. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the Amendment Act to the Code of Nadra, in general. [[Registration number 4679]] Please vote. Vote. [[13:52:41.]] For 246 The law is passed. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on statutory acts is under consideration. [[Registration number 2425]] Yuri Mikolaiovich, from the committee, be a laoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that we have already considered the bill. The author is our colleague, Gorin. The point is, it's very simple. In all the legal instruments that exist in Ukraine, in all the laws of Ukraine, the word of a statutory, statutory fund changes to the word of statutory capital. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u213	It's all clear. There is a proposal, and the Chief Legal Authority has, without notice, called for, supported Bill 2425 and passed the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning statutory capital. Please vote. [[13:53:50]] For 246 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the Book of Responses and Suggestions]] [[Registration number 4120]] Gayman Oleg Eisikovich is from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u214	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy at its October 5, 2010, meeting, considered a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, which was introduced by the People's Deputy Bodnar, which was processed for the second reading. [[on the Book of Responses and Suggestions]] [[register 4120]] The bill proposes that, at the legislative level, the consumer be given the right to leave the entries in the responds and offers book and to establish administrative responsibility for leaving the citizen without consideration or ignorance of the complaint or notice in the response and offer book established by law or the refusal of access to it. [[consumer]] I would like to remind you that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office has concluded a number of observations and has proposed the return of the Law 4,120 subjects to the legislative initiative for further development, but the draft law has been adopted as a basis. During the second reading of the bill, proposals were made only from the national deputy Carmazin, two of whom were partially considered, and one was rejected. In the process of processing the table for the second reading with the Chief Legal Authority, the committee carried out all the recommendations of the lawyers, but nevertheless the table is inscribed with observations. They are given to you, fellow believers, along with a table and a general conclusion. In view of the possibility of numerous legal collegiates in the case of the adoption of a bill as a law, it is proposed that it be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to accept in the second reading and in general. But, indeed, there is a point made by the Chief Legal Authority that suggests that it should be rejected because it will not improve but worsen the situation. I am voting on a proposal to adopt a law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[by number 4120]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:57:32]] For 1 The law is rejected. Bill 6216 on the amendment to the Act on Shareholders is under consideration. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have already postponed this bill once before and have returned to the committee because the table contains rights that have violated 116 articles of the Rules. The Committee had finalized the table and all the rights that had violated article 116 of the Rules had been deleted, i.e. they had been rejected. In this case, you have a complete table. The Committee proposes that it be approved and adopted as a law as a whole. I would like to draw attention to the comments of the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Generally speaking, they consider that one of the provisions of article 65-1 of the law violates the Constitution of Ukraine, since it provides for the possibility of ransoming the majority shareholders, forcing redemption, for the minority shareholder to have a small shareholding left by certain minority shareholders, which violates the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the lawyers of the Supreme Council refer to constitutional rules that protect private property from nationalization. This rule of law has nothing to do with nationalization. That's the first one. And the second. Worldwide, including in all European countries, such a rule exists. And the norm, the percentage of when one hand concentrates a stock package that allows the majority shareholder to buy the rest of the package, varies from country to country. For example, in England it is 90 per cent, in Austria it is 90 per cent, in Russia it is 95 per cent, as proposed in this bill, in Italy 98, in Switzerland 98 and so on and so forth. So I'm ready to go over the table and answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u217	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, which of the unaccounted for amendments insists on their consideration? None. Who wants to consider an amendment that is considered by the committee but has a different opinion? None. Before the vote, dear colleagues, I would like to say the following. First. I would like to express my appreciation publicly to my fellow Europeans for having actually listened to our suggestions, and these were suggestions in line with the 116th article Rules, for we have not considered it once or twice, and they were a violation of 116 articles. In fact, the committee and, in particular, the reporter came up responsiblely, and all that was contrary to article 116 of the Rules was removed from the bill. I would like other committees to follow such a good example. And the second. There are some comments from the legal authorities, but it is no longer the case that there was a violation of 116 articles. I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and in the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on improving the mechanism of activity]] Registration number 6216. Please vote. [[14:01:19]] For 244 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on improving the status of the victim]] Registration number 4492. The committee is Moses. I can't see. Dear colleagues, let's say that whoever of the authors insists is here mostly Yuri Carmazin's not included in the amendments. He doesn't insist because he's gone. Then, with your permission, I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[on improving the status of the victim]] Registration number 4492. Please. [[2:02:22]] For-29 The offer is not supported. There's an offer for re-reading, please be sure. [[14:02:46]] For-35 The bill is not supported, it is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under consideration, registration number 6379. The Homutinian is from the committee. None. Let's see the amendments. Carmazine. Partially counted. Declined Carmazin, 6th. But there are, honourable colleagues, comments by the Chief Legal Officer: The text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116. I'm not putting him to the vote. Please bring the committee into line with 116 articles. Let's put the question on hold. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of legislation banning gaming in Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 5349. Second reading. Here's all the suggestions. I just don't understand why "d"? A discussion was postponed. 2 / 12 I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of legislation prohibiting gambling in Ukraine. Registration number 5349. Please vote. [[14:05:03]] For 237 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[providing access to public information]] Second reading. Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, please. But, I'm sorry, Olena Anatolyevno, I'm sorry. Excuse me, excuse me. The text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u218	Nevertheless, I would like to report on this bill because it has such a very long history.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u219	Olena Anatoly, I'm sorry, you can report, you can ask me what you want, but I won't put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u220	Why, Adam Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u221	Because there is 116 articles of the Rules. It's a very sensitive bill. This is a bill that we must consider. But no matter what you rape me, I stress once again, Alexander Sergiyovich, until it is brought into line with article 116 of the Rules, we will not vote on it. For some reason, the committee violated article 116 of the Rules. Olena Anatolyevno, then we exchange thoughts. Please tell us why 116 articles have not been implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u222	If possible, I would like to give the floor to Andrei Vitalievich as chairman of the committee and leader of the Alexander Sergeevich Efraemov faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u223	Please, Chewchenka. Then there was Ephraim. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u224	Colleagues, I'll make it very simple. You have two bills that are the product of a very long and shared activity of officials and opposition, civil society, journalistic organizations. This is a unique case of cooperation this year, especially in the conditions under which the Supreme Council is currently operating. These two bills are very important to look at in the complex, they are written just so that they will work together. This is a new edition of the Information Act, which was drafted on the basis of a bill by our colleague, Helen Bondarenko and Vladimir Landik. And second, it's the Public Information Act. I'll say that in preparation, not only were media experts, representatives of various political powers involved, but also a huge number of lawyers, from the President's Office, from the Cabinet of Ministers and from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We understand that there may be differing views on the legal technique of this bill. Nevertheless, the Committee requests the Supreme Council with a simple and clear request to support the draft of two Bills 7321 and 2763. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u225	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u226	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, there are rules, and there's an exception to the rules. We are well aware that there are 116 articles, but we know how much we have worked on these two bills, and indeed in concert with the media. We worked out, Adam Ivanovich, the bill. And there's some doubt about that, let him say. But we have no doubt about what needs to be accepted, and they are expected today, including by the media. That is why we urge them to be considered today. And if anyone has a comment on 116 articles, let him write it in writing and sign his last name on the matter. But just like that. Let us then put to the vote whether to consider or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u227	Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm very sorry that you're adamant to violate the Rules. Because I've worked quite actively under your guidance on the regulatory committee, and we've always followed clear regulations. Who signed it? I say: signed by the deputy director of Milovanov’s Directorate - General, who writes: “In the title and text of this bill, the general structure, volume and content of the text that was not approved by Parliament in the first reading was changed in preparation for the second reading, in contravention of part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The general conclusion is that the bill requires substantial further elaboration and re-reading.” We were just talking about this 116th article of the bill, which was reported by Voropeyev. Please, Ephraim's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u228	You know, I completely agree with the first part of what this representative wrote with a science expert. But no one gave him the right to comment on the refinement. The best specialists we have were working on the work. One person assumes the right and makes the appropriate conclusion. For 116 articles, cheers! And by the text of the document, don't let him go in there. It's not his right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-22-m0.u229	Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm sorry, you're wrong again. Because for that, we have the Chief Legal Authority to draw our own conclusions. This is the conclusion of the General Legal Office. Dear colleagues, there is a dispute. I bet you let the Supreme Council take the fall for reviewing the bill in the face of a violation of article 116. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:10:53]] For 217 Not supported. Once again, colleagues and committee, make sure it doesn't wash away 116 articles, and let's take it, finally, this one. Alexander Sergiyovich, I repeat: any efforts you make to extend illegal law have not even received the support of the Supreme Council. At this morning's meeting. No, dear fellows, we didn't get it, we'll be looking at it. You shouldn't point at others again. We didn't look at it. We will consider it, but we will ask that there be no violation of article 116. We didn't take it off the table. Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. At 3 p.m., we'll have parliamentary hearings. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
