ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:15]] Cards were registered in the 417 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna, which is the round date. Please welcome our colleague and wish her youth, beauty, health, and success at work. [[Applause]] Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with statements, reports, announcements, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Olga Bodnar, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT is the Fatherland". Dard will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u2	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! We are witnessing how the monopoly power -- the dictatorship of the oligarchy capital -- has been established in Ukraine. A pool of close - to - power oligarchs controls 90 percent of the economy, and according to the UN, nearly 80 percent of the population is at the poverty line. A share of the final cost of production in Ukraine, according to the Academy of Sciences, is less than 7 percent, while in neighbouring European countries, more than 30 percent. This indicates that the oligarch owners are getting their profits from the unfortunate exploitation of cheap Ukrainian rabbis, the lack of modern technology in our production. And that's not enough for them: every day there's an attack on the basic social rights of ordinary people. This is evidenced by the government’s tax and labour codes. There's everything for the great capital, to satisfy its demands -- and completely ignore the interests of the common people, the hired workers, the destruction of small and medium-sized businesses. It's also taxation of people's savings, of their deposits. This is because it's hard to get people in some banks right now not that interest is going to take their deposits away, and they're going to be taxed. It's also the refusal of the government's majority to support the amendments that gave rise to the tax on the implementation of scientific and technological, innovative activities. They don't need science! They need an unskilled, cheap labor force. The tip of cynicism is to tax the income of peasants from supporting farms. This is because of the catastrophic aging of the village and the beggarly condition of our peasants. The government wants to rip the last skin off the peasants. Such antinational action by the authorities is indignation and is triggering the mass protests that we saw yesterday under the Supreme Council. And so it becomes clear what the power is for, and in fact, usurpation, in one hand, why dictatorship is for them: to suppress such mass protests with militia stakes, bandit bullets, and so on. And I think the right person was George Soros, who said that the interests of capital and democracy were incompatible. Stop deciding the interests of the oligarchs, the great capital at the expense of the common people, at the expense of the poor! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u3	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of Regions, instead of Dard. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Of course, Ukraine, our society, the economy is facing a range of risks and challenges that affect all spheres of the state's life, the confidence of our people in the future, and in relation to the Tax Code, I am sure that this document cannot be the subject of a political situation. And Parliament's task, regardless of the name of faction, political orientation, is to combine efforts together and to adopt a balanced, both by national fiscal functions and by increasing business activity in Ukraine, and this will be done. Very seriously, honourable national MPs, so that Parliament is not away from the risks that today have a very painful impact on the future of our state. First of all, I'm talking about energy security. There are very serious developments in both energy transit and the European market, where Ukraine is part of Europe's energy security and owns a unique gas transport system. It is therefore essential that Parliament upholds the firm and principled position of both the Government of Ukraine and the President in the protection of national energy interests, starting with the best possible use of our transit capabilities, the implementation of modernization projects. It is necessary to unite efforts together, including European societies and our partners, and to prove that the alternative to South Stream and Ukraine has already prepared technical and economic justifications. And clearly choose the conditions for the development of Ukraine's economy so that our production is competitive. Today's price of natural gas creates a situation where our producers pay at least $60-65 per thousand cubic meters higher than their competitors in Europe. There is nothing to do with Parliament without emotion, without political overcrowding, and by consolidating efforts to protect Ukraine's national economic interests. It is very important to pay attention to the security of our nation, the formation of a defense order. Let's not let an officer at the level of the Department of Defense define strategic orientations for programmes like Corvette, AN-70 and others, which is the basis of our scientific and technological potential, this is the defence capacity of our state. We call on all the healthy, pragmatic, responsible forces of Parliament to unite efforts to protect and promote our interests in internal and external space. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u5	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, next to Xenius Leppin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u6	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party, Lithuanian Block. Dear colleagues, in a few hours at the Yellow Palace “Ukraine” will open a special meeting dedicated to the Day of Agricultural Workers. At this festival, they will say beautiful words of thanks to the villagers, greeting them with the festival that is approaching, and it is deserved. Perhaps these people deserve the best words of thanks in our nation. But they would be grateful to the government and to us if to this day we had completely different conditions of work, life, and security. When analyzed as a budget implemented this year for the development of the agricultural sector, it is completely negative, almost unfulfilled. Farmers who work directly in the field did not get the money to pay off their loans, except in small percentages for large landowners. Unfulfilled government promises of help, payment, support for each hectare of sugar beets. There's no animal support program, no tribal work, and this list can be continued, and I'm not talking about the social development of the village anymore. Dear colleagues, we are now working on the Tax Code, yesterday many rights that would help the peasants are not supported by this hall. I address you, ladies and gentlemen, every day we want bread and bread on our table! Why do we not want to help those who feed us with you? It's very important that we don't tax a one-man peasant, a peasant who survives at the expense of a piece of land, we want to send him to the stock market because he wants to process his little plot, his land share, his pie. And we're paying him a tax, and now he's in charge, so we're taxing him, and John's on the stock market, waiting for taxes from the state, and then he's drinking it a little bit, because it's not earned, and that's what we're doing. So, speaking to this room, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u8	Like the President of Ukraine, take special control of the agrarian sector support programme. And now let's all join together in welcoming the peasants to the festival that will take place on Sunday, the Day of the Workers of the Village! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u9	Thank you. [[Applause]] Kseniya Liapina, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction, will be followed by Valerius Bebelz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u10	Thank you, Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Today in fashion in this room and in the state building analogy, I want to say the following by this analogy. If the ruling party, the political power decided to be the builders who are building the country, then we, as the opposition and opposition political power “For Ukraine!” decided, by analogy, to be an architectural and building inspection, and we will now figure out which country, as well as on which project, is being built by a predominant party. First of all, from yesterday's events, a police state is being built to let the national MPs know, I'm asking you to form this as my request. Yesterday, one of the organizers of a peaceful action by independent entrepreneurs who, without any political requirements, stood by for their own rights, stood still, and did not interfere with anyone’s constitutional rights. You can't do that, it's the first time in many years that the organizers of peace actions are being held back, and I'm asking that this be stopped and that the fuses just have to be put on. The second, coming out of a semi-adopted code yesterday, that is, half the codex, the basic articles and the basic chapters were approved, we can already analyze what is being built in the state that is being built, which is going to be the foundation of that state. On the basis of what was voted yesterday, the State’s foundation is a tax service that offers enormous additional opportunities. For a long time there has been a discussion, so there are tests that are not organized in any way except by the tax system itself, which can behave without warning, at any time of day or night, with the examination of premises and so forth, and so on, and so on, are in fact not checks, but searches. Yesterday it became perfectly clear, the legal fact that such checks are in the Tax Code, and more than that, they were in themselves, the same way supported by this hall, tax will perform search functions and will perform functions that are totally not her own. The second was a long-standing discussion and some vice-premiers publicly assured that there was no arrest of assets without a court decision. Yesterday it became perfectly clear and legal fact that there is an asset arrest without a court decision and all the various assets of an enterprise and not just a real estate, or any business can be destroyed. Since the adoption of the law yesterday, it has also become clear that all citizens who have more than one job and therefore have to make a declaration, I want to point out that a cleaning woman who works on three firms has to make a declaration under this code, and they also have to enter the bill into the established tax system. What does that mean? This means that a cleaning woman who works three jobs still has to lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u12	I'm done. As a result, the citizens in this land, built by the ruling party, proved to be useless. They're preventing this country from expanding. And as an inspection, we will also prevent you from building such a country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u13	Valerius Beales. He is also given the right to speak by a colleague named Danilenko. So 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, in the face of a social upheaval related to the consideration of serious legal acts in the walls of the Supreme Council, somehow the specific actions of individual officials go to the other side. I would like to inform you that, as I have come to know from nearby circles to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a number of papers, draft papers on the transfer of education to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Crimea of the 44 Medical and Rehabilitation Centres of the ministries and the Ukrainian authorities have been prepared for today. As explained in the explanatory note, today there are 26 thousand and a half beds in Crimea in the Ukrainian medical rehabilitation centres. So, based on the need to transfer these medical facilities to the Crimea Cabinet, it's explained that so many places are not needed, the city needs much less -- more than 6,000 beds. And yet, the explanatory note says that we need to get these institutions to the office of the Ministers of Crimea, but at the same time, we need to keep government funding at the level that it is today. But I would like to report that out of the 44 institutions that belong to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, other ministries and intelligence, including the Ministry of Health, 14 are child rehabilitation facilities, 14 are specialized adults, it means spinal cords, it's tuberculosis, it's child cerebral palsy. We've been thinking for a long time with a group that's been preparing these papers and studying the documents and why it's happening. I'd like to point out that it's 44 buildings, and it's small, not much, it's hundreds and even thousands of acres of precious Crimean land. For example, what I would also like to say is that today there are 2.5 million members of all categories, all ministries and departments: the Ministry of Defence is 180,000, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is 750 000, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is 240 000, the Ministry of Defense is 220 000, and the State Border Service is 160,000. As for the position of the Crimea leadership or government, I would like to say that there is a reference to the situation so to speak that there is no need for any change in the current legislation in relation to such initiatives. I'd like to express my firm objection. Why? Because article 11, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, and article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Militia states that changes in the subordination, retraining of health care facilities, sanatorium and health institutions of the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Security Service, State of the border services, others, according to the law of Ukraine military formations, are expressly prohibited from alienating the immovable property of these establishments. For this reason, I turned to the head of the government of Azarov Mikli Janović. I hope that in the near future we will have full information, as well as the position of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister himself, the Cabinet of Ministers, I apologize. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u15	Yuri Gnatkevitch is referring to Oleni Shustik, the "BUT – "The Fatherland" faction. Next up is Gordienko instead of Rapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u16	Olena Shustik, BUT faction, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! "Step forward, two steps back," was the famous work of the famous classic of Marxism, Leninism. This was the principle of the October 31st local elections in Ukraine. The huge leap forward on the scale and attempts of falsification was made by the Party of the Regions. Two seven-step backwards was taken by Ukraine and its citizens from democracy and law. What the representatives of the Party of the Regions called free elections was actually a clearly planned and organized action to capture power in places. The reformed Danish justice has openly played on the side of power this time. The courts granted less than one percent of the claims of the Fatherland Party, with 85 percent of the claims of the Party of the Regions being met, but this was only a test of the prior election to the Supreme Council of Technology for the conduct of fully-managed elections and a programmed result that would ultimately ensure the main strategy of this authority – absolute authority and shadow enrichment. Because the so - called new majority MPs, mostly members of the big business, are known to be totally dependent on the authority they run and are only able to make orders. The victory of intellectual and moral politicians for the subsequent and these elections seems to be simply a front. According to Ukrainian citizens, the international community’s last local elections were the most dirty, dishonest, and undemocratic. And one of the main reasons for this is that it was destroyed by the pseudo-reform of justice. The other one. This is the updated Elections Act, which was eliminated by the main competitor and banned by the blocs and imposed by everyone. and laid down all the components of counterfeiting, starting with the formation of fully controlled electoral commissions at the top: central, territorial, electoral, territorial and divisive. It is in these terms that the Party of the Regions intends to deceive citizens in the next elections to parliament, changing the same way the Act on Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, by the way, is recognized by the international community as one of the most democratic and honest. This law allowed for fair and transparent elections in 2006 and 2007 according to European standards. And in turn, the opposition, is the majority to win the election. By the way, yesterday’s farce in reviewing the Tax Code project confirms once again that the authorities’ intentions to fight their own citizens continue. So what kind of nation is the new government building? Without justice, without freedom, without justice, without elections, and probably without the Ukrainians themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u17	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Corge will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u18	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Once again, I would like to draw the attention of the government and all the authorities of Ukraine to the problems of implementing the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. Since the date of its adoption and its taking effect on January 1, 2006, its position has not been fulfilled, whatever governments are in our country. Today, the rights of war children are being plundered. First of all, a State that does not fulfil its obligations, which have been adopted in the form of the Ukrainian Act on the Social Status of the Protection of Children of War. And Ukrainian citizens are forced to go and defend their right to receive these minor benefits before the courts of Ukraine without waiting for the provisions of this law to be implemented. The rights of children of war are also being plundered in the courts, which today are simply incapable of organizing, personnel and technology to deal with this problem, and the courts, which are practically paralyzed by the statements of children of war, where children of war can go, where children of war are being led by aided children, and where people are being carried on board to take part in this session and prove their right to receive the benefits provided by this Law of Ukraine. The rights of children of war are being plundered by individual political forces that have actually privatized the right to children of war in Ukraine, and I'm drawing attention to how law enforcement, government and all who have control functions to this problem, because this, this party is called the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The courts are targeting people and they say that we will only accept external statements from the representatives of this party. And they say that you voted for the Party of Regions, BUT or another party, and we don't even want to see you. I would like to conclude by saying that I am addressing the government of Ukraine, which is in preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u20	Which, in preparing the 2011 budget, will take into account the social problems of those who have the status of children of war and ensure the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has eliminated this illegal prohibition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Vitaly Corge is handing over the right to speak to Antonini Boluri. Please. It's the Fatherland faction. And the next performance of Maybroda will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u22	Antonina Boloura, Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday the Supreme Council began its consideration of 6,000 amendments to the Tax Code. Entrepreneurs from all over Ukraine are protesting the adoption of such a codex. Many of them came to Kiev, and yesterday we saw them under the walls of the Supreme Council. They are concerned about the fate of their business after the adoption of the Tax Code. What changed during the preparation period for his second reading? It's become even more tax-intensive for small and medium-sized businesses. Even after the amendments have been finalized, the Tax Code project greatly increases the tax burden on ordinary people. All proposals from the opposition forces are rejected. Tax administration became even more severe than in the first reading. One administrative asset arrest, provided for in the draft code, which is worth it. According to the tax director’s decision, an arrest may be made, so to speak, no more than 96 days. One hour, excuse me, please! But what a good thing. Because a continuation is something that can be continued by decision of the court. How long will this judgment continue? What Does the Assets Mean? What will be the losses during this period? There's a shaft of fines growing. Work relationships are being tested. The Code enshrines the right of the taxpayer to dictate the price of the goods to be sold to the business entity. And there's a lot of different, unacceptable, complicated things that we've been talking about for six months. Yesterday’s discussion at the Supreme Council Hall showed that this was a futile work. Proposals to improve the content of the Tax Code are neither accepted by the majority nor by representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. The tax code of this content is unacceptable, incomprehensible, hostile to our people and to small and medium - size business. It's not improving, it's making the investment climate in Ukraine worse, it's not sorting out tax relations between taxpayers and fiscal authorities, it's creating conditions for further deepening business in the shadows, it's not filling the state budget, it's going to make the population poor, it's losing jobs. That's a big deal for most people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u23	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u24	Thank you. And basically, 2011 budgeting based on the Tax Code is illegal. The adoption of the Tax Code should take place at least six months before the beginning of the new budget code. The codex must be adopted and published no later than July 15. Yes, the Tax Code is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Maybeard's handing over Alexander Stoyan's right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u26	The theme of my speech is "The Hard Code: Myths and Reality". You know, these days, it's been called an independent trade union. Why "so-called"? Since her leader had gone through the list of BUTUs, he had previously praised this government, he was now criticizing the draft Labour Code, in which he was actively involved. That's it. Even held a mass protest for days, there were 57. Unfortunately, some journalists have captured this myth, and I want to say, if you have a question, here I'll give you a third book, read, it's all about working time. The main myth is to increase working hours to 12 hours or a working week to 48 hours. I would like to say that, in article 61 of the current Labour Code, it is stated that in some cases a working week may be increased and that it does not say how many hours. That's why taxi drivers work around the clock today, private bus drivers work around the clock, and accidents, hospital groups work around the clock, and many more. So we decided to limit the actual amount of working time in cases where it is necessary. And we wrote in the draft of the Labour Code: the maximum duration of the day-to-day total work, I emphasize, should not be more than 12 hours at the time of work. [[Article 43]] And the maximum working week per total time should not be more than 48 hours. Next. Work overworked during certain periods, based on the calculation of working hours, I emphasize, is compensated for by a lower working time. What does that mean? I'll explain. For example, drivers of locomotives, drivers of trucks that drive far away, watchtowers, ambulances, if they work more than 48 hours a week or 12 hours a day, they are compensated for not more than 32 hours a second week. That's the first one. Second, the employer is obliged to give them leave. And thirdly, I emphasize, for processing, it has to pay extra twice as much -- up to 30 percent. Generally speaking, article 31, I quote, of the new code stipulates that the normal working hours are 40 hours, and I emphasize that the normal working hours are 40 hours. Everything else is a contemplation. It's a desire to instigate people. I want to tell the paramedics who are listening to us, to tell them, doctors and many others. Those who work today for 8 hours, according to the new code, will no longer work eight hours a day or 40 hours a week. We protect people's jobs. What's more, we have a lot of suggestions that really make it possible for people to work properly. What is the purpose of such action? It's done for the fact that companies today are only 10 percent of private enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u28	There are only 10 percent of private enterprises and there is no trade. So in private businesses, we have made such standards that a person can protect himself through law. To do something about it, they're stuck in these 12 hours, and it's kind of like we're setting this standard. That's not the norm. Once again, I'm going to go out to the towers and show you the third book, where all the standards are clearly set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The statement has been completed. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments in the form of letters, references. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider some of the issues identified by Wednesday’s schedule. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds Received by Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism. Registration number Reported by the Deputy Justice Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the European Integration Committee Vecerko Volodymyr Mikolajovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u30	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your view is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search and Seizure of Proceeds obtained by Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, which is the new edition of the European Council Convention, which was similar to the one in the 1990s. It is also a comprehensive tool aimed at bringing the national laws of participating States closer to modern international standards on crime-laundering and terrorist financing. On behalf of Ukraine, the convention was signed on November 25, 2005, but since Ukraine’s legislation was not fully in line with the convention, we waited for the improvement of national legislation, so the convention was not ratified. Now, in view of the change in the national law that governs the same relations, we have the opportunity to ratify this convention, which is certainly a very important tool for combating the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. I must say that international cooperation between the competent authorities of the treaty parties, on the investigation and judicial review of cases relating to the confiscation of funds and tools and proceeds, will be carried out through the central authorities that are determined in Ukraine, on the pretrial hearing of cases, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the judicial decisions on confiscation – the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. In addition, for the entire article 46 of the convention, which provides for the cooperation of financial intelligence units, the body empowered in Ukraine to perform financial intelligence functions is defined by the central executive authority with special financial monitoring status. The implementation of the convention will be ensured within the limits of the funds allocated to the national budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of State bodies, which will directly participate in the performance of the tasks on the basis of the provisions set out in this convention. With the effectiveness of this convention, legal grounds will be created for the continuation of Ukraine’s participation in a modern and effective system of international cooperation with a view to pursuing a common criminal policy aimed at protecting society from serious crimes by depriving criminals of the proceeds of crime and the tools and the means of crime. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Evening Vladimir Mikolaiovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee on European Integration
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism is designed to create a modern and effective system of international cooperation for the purpose of pursuing a common criminal policy aimed at protecting society from serious crimes that have become an increasing international problem. [[Next – Convention]] This convention is a new edition of the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds by Crime, 1990, as well as a comprehensive instrument aimed at bringing the national laws of participating States closer to modern international standards on crime-laundering measures, as well as against terrorist financing. According to an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Lavrinović, the implementation of the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention will not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The European Integration Committee considered at its meeting on 3 November this year the Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds derived from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. [[Registration number 0186]] The Committee's decision is in line with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees on the fight against organized crime and corruption and on the issues of the Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any objection to us putting this question to the vote? It's obvious and understandable. What is it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please sign in. Yes, please give me the names of the national deputies. Let's take 10 minutes to consider this. Pavlovsky, please, Andrew. Then there's Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u34	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the word to Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u35	Vladimir Yavorowski, “BUT” faction, “Fathership”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Of course, the subject of ratification is the topic of combating corruption on a large scale, even on an international scale, of course, that everyone has an absolute positive solution because we live in a country, all the way from a mountain to a mountain, from the top to the root system itself. However, it would certainly be possible to support this convention and ratify it. However, according to our legal authorities, it is for this reason that it is not possible to do so in any case, for this is the case. We're ratifying an agreement under which we don't have a national legislative base. I would like to quote the opinion of the General Legal Office: “We note that, apart from this convention and the establishment of the responsibility of legal persons for certain activities, other international legal acts, such as the Council of Europe Convention on Measures against Trafficking in Human Beings, ratified by law, the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption, ratified by the same law. As a result of the adoption of the last convention in Ukraine, the Act “On the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences” has been adopted, which still extends only to the area of corruption, has not yet entered into force, and contains a number of significant gaps and shortcomings in its application in practice which will cause serious problems”. This is indeed the fundamental observation of our Chief Legal Authority. Because if we vote in favour of ratifying this convention today, it's just an empty space that will go without any effort at all, because in fact we don't have our own national legislation. Why don't we have it? This needs to be asked in the majority that blocks the constant adoption of these radical bills that would eventually give, at least, some that mattered to our law and order authorities to fight this terrible scourge that Ukraine has already celebrated throughout the world. Because I am convinced that voting today and ratifying this convention is unwise. We need to prepare national legislation on this subject, and then, by ratifying this convention, we can somehow get to the point of solving this problem. Although I understand that today’s authorities do not want to stand up for this, it is uncomfortably difficult for them to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u37	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u38	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the convention, which is to be ratified, is badly needed by Ukraine, but when Ukraine wants to do so. So far, Ukraine, and you fellow MPs, have not wanted to fight the laundering and confiscation of proceeds obtained in a criminal way. Until you denounced the Agreement between the Soviet Union and the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation. So far billions are going there, and so many people, including in this room, are interested in going there. I'll tell you something like that. Names in the results of the vote when the government, the previous government, Timoshenko made a denunciation proposal here, and you, the reverend who cries out, have not ratified along with your immediate neighbors in the seat. Well, I'd like that. There are all names for the Ukrainian people. So, dear friends, knowing this, seeing this, I, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, have put this project in place to be renaissable. Instead, we are meeting at the level of the Prime Minister, at the level of the Head of the Supreme Council. But to your health, meet. Just don’t think about how the oligarchs can step aside softly, but think about how to get the money back here so everyone can bet. Then I would see if they would be so interested in adopting the Tax Code. For whom do you accept the Tax Code now? For decent people, you accept it, not for those who are offshors! Because of this, and also because you have contributed to the law on the liability of legal persons to the laws about. The new anti-corruption laws have been halted. And you know that since January 1, of March 1, you haven't introduced them, so we have to postpone this convention from ratification. And it was absolutely correct for the Legal Authority to write in its conclusion: “We consider it appropriate to postpone the ratification of this Convention for the elaboration and adoption of legislation that would ensure its full implementation.” Why? Because they're warning you about Article 10 of the Convention. What does article 10 say? It says that the party is using such legislative, other measures as may be necessary to ensure that legal persons are held accountable for money laundering crimes established in accordance with this convention. So we have two morals: for the outside, we show that we ratify, and in fact, we don't go together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u39	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u40	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds Received by Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, which we are considering today, will first contribute to the harmonization of our legislation with European standards. One second. This will help to fulfill our obligations to the Council of Europe. And here I would like to remind our colleagues who are now speaking, but they don't know the essence of this problem. That during the October session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, attention was being paid to the need to advance Ukraine in the fight against corruption. And once we vote in favour of ratifying this legislation, this convention, and this law will be signed by the President, this convention will become part of our legislation. And in accordance with the International Contracts Act, it will have a higher legal power in relation to other laws. And we're going to have to work in that direction. So on behalf of the Party of the Regions, I call on everyone to vote in favour of the ratification of this convention. And please put to the vote right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u41	Gregory Smythech, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I came to you to give me your word because, of course, Valery Volodymyrical had to be given the opportunity to answer the questions of the national MPs. Because, for example, I have a question: which countries are part of this convention, which countries have refused to sign, including the Russian Federation. I don't agree with the question that you don't need money. If Ukraine makes a commitment, Ukraine’s commitments, including those that fulfill them, automatically arise. And if there is, there is adequate funding. How much funding will be increased in one way or another, is it necessary? I don't understand why the issue of financing terrorism is. What, at least one example, is that Ukrainian or Ukrainian citizens are at risk of financing terrorism? I don't understand why that's the question. I don't understand why we unilaterally commit ourselves and why countries don't take responsibility for immigration violations in Ukraine, including emigration legislation, Vladimir Mihajlovich, the law that lays down, and others. Including the law that we talked about: readmission. All of this is a commitment made by Ukraine. Every Sunday we ratify our commitment, our commitment. When other countries respond adequately or in a parity relationship. So I would ask for this ratification to allow us to ask questions in order to get the answer, not just to vote. Let's vote because someone's waiting for us or someone's threatening us. Me, too. In particular, the question arises why Ukraine is making a commitment in order to reveal the secret of its citizens. This is a violation of constitutional rights, because now every payer coming from Ukraine, yes, every citizen, every entrepreneur of foreign states, the United States or the European Union, has the right to monitor. ask a question. Why do we demean our dignity, and why do we violate the rights of citizens? If there's a reason, on the basis of the court, I'm sure it's a different procedure. And if we allow financial monitoring in other countries. Monitoring, monitoring our funds, our businesses and our citizens, it's, I think, that we are demeaning the dignity of our society, our people. In doing so, we do not protect their rights and freedoms. So personally, I will not vote for this ratification in a show like it was brought to us as to the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u43	Regarding whoever has a bearing on it, ratified this statement, I think we should look at the documents, there are a list of countries with what warnings they have ratified this document. We need to read the papers. Please, Deputy Minister Lutkowski, then Večorko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u44	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to answer some questions that have been asked. First, this Convention has become effective for the 21 states that are parties to the Council of Europe. And accordingly these nations do not consider that in this convention, which is really a fundamental tool for combating the laundering of incomes obtained by criminal means, that these articles may somehow violate the rights of citizens. Moreover, I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which is not the main legal authority that concluded it, but the GNEU. In addition, I would like to point out that the conclusion given to GNEU does not take into account that today legal persons are subject to the Act on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization, on the Laundering of Proceeds, on the Criminal Route, as drafted by the Law of 18 May 2010, which establishes the responsibility of legal persons who carried out financial transactions in the legalization of incomes or financed terrorism. In particular, part two of article 23 of the Act provides for the liquidation of such legal persons by decision of the court. In this regard, we feel that our legislation is absolutely foreshadowed by the convention. In this regard, we believe that ratification of this Convention is now necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u45	Microphone Dinner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u46	Evening, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies and respected citizens of Ukraine! What we are discussing today and in order to ratify this bill must be ratified from the same perspective today. Because, together with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, we have fully worked out this bill, and all the requirements and all the laws that have been adopted before, and this convention, are taken into account in this draft. And I would like to respond to the representatives of Yavorivsky and Karmazin. No one has interfered with the past Government, the last coalition, to enact such laws so that we can move forward. With regard to the Republic of Cyprus, I would like to remind you of the recent presence of the delegation of the Republic of Cyprus and the meeting with President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic. And the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, raised the issue of double taxation before the Republic of Cyprus. Therefore, all are accounted for, respected, and no one discloses the secret of the deposits. Our country must move forward step by step, and our country is striving to join the European Union. Therefore, we must be more open, transparent, democratic and nothing bad about this project today. This is all done for the benefit of our country and, by the way, for the benefit of our businessmen, so that no one can contradict them, that money is being laundered today and flows from Ukraine to the countries of the European community or to the Eurasian regions. Today, business is more open and today we must do everything honestly and fairly. I therefore ask, on behalf of Paria of the Regions, and on behalf of the Committee, to support and vote in favour of the draft, it will be only if we truly want the good of our people that we must support this bill. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u47	Honorable colleagues, discussion of the subject. I ask the national MPs not to call each other's names during the performance, because we have the lines to infinity. Please, Yavorowski and Karmazin for a minute on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. I'm not going to call that last name, but I just want to answer it. It's not that, well let's be honest, it's not that we don't want to open up there, or that our business there doesn't want to be transparent. No, we know that. Everyone knows that. Every grandmother in the village knows that it's not clear. We accept, we want to ratify this agreement, it's a beautiful deal, it's very normal, but I'm explaining my position again: there's absolutely no national legislative base under it to fight corruption, you're afraid to accept it, you don't want to accept it. Let's take legislation first, and then we'll ratify this agreement, dot, and there's nothing else here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that our President has met with the officials of Cyprus. The main thing for him to understand is that first we need to denounce the existing agreement between the USSR and Cyprus, first we need to denounce it, which is distributed to Ukraine, and then in this "clean field" we need to make other agreements, that's the first. And the second. I call on all the national MPs, all the profile committees that are looking after the state budget, in general, to put obstacles to the withdrawal of funds from Ukraine into any other offshore area, not just Cyprus, because I know that the oligarchs are already giving their lawyers a job on other islands and so on to register. That's why we have to do this completely around, and only then do we have to ratify this agreement. But the laws we prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. The Committee’s conclusion is positive. The main scientific and expert management considers it appropriate to postpone the ratification of this convention. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds obtained by Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism. [[Registration number 0186]] Please vote. [[11:00:33]] For 316 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the amendment of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the activities of the Chernobyl Fund for Protection in Ukraine. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Bolotsky Mikhailo Vasilovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u52	Short-circuited? I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:01:46]] For 206 Decision taken. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u54	Report, report. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development amending the framework agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the activities of the Chernobyl Fund for Protection in Ukraine since 20 November 1997 was introduced by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovič as an urgent matter for further development. The draft agreement proposed for ratification of this law provides for changes to the framework agreement to part of the increase in Ukraine's contribution to the Chernobyl Fund from 50 to 104 million US$ 163,000. As the increase in the amount of funds will give Ukraine the right to vote as a full-fledged participant in the meetings of the Donors' Assembly in addressing the issues of the conversion of the “Hidden” object into an ecologically safe system. The proposed changes were endorsed by the European Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Letter Exchange and approved by the Assembly of Investors of the Chernobyl Fund for the Protection. Ratification of the Agreement will ensure the fulfilment of Ukraine's international obligations and encourage other donor countries to actively fill the Chernobyl Protection Fund with additional contributions. The draft law is in line with the established order. A general conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on the possibility of ratifying the agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u56	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, head of the committee, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The proposed bill has been drafted for the implementation of the recommendations and the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 18 April 2008 on the state, measures and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and on the implementation of the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy since 04 March 2009. The aim of the increase in Ukraine's contribution to the Chernobyl Fund is to ensure Ukraine's participation as an equal partner with donor countries in the financing of the construction of a new safe comfort of the Hidden object in terms of contracts, and to grant Ukraine the right to vote as a full participant in the resolution of the issue of the conversion of the Hidden object into an environmentally sound system at meetings of the Donors' Assembly. In accordance with Chapter I of the Framework Agreement, Ukraine has undertaken to supplement the Chernobyl Fund with its own resources of $50 million. The "Hiddenness" action plan, including financial estimates, was developed and adopted in 1997, based on the ideas of the "Hidden" object and its ways of transforming it into an environmentally sound system. The cost estimates did not take into account all the real conditions of performance, changes in the regulatory framework and regulatory requirements during the last years of implementing the Plan of Action, which were later defined as necessary, as well as an increase in the cost of labour, energy, and materials. On June 1, 2009, the integrated budget for the Plan of Action was estimated at $1.6 billion. The Ukrainian delegation, at the meeting of the Assembly of Donors on 7 July 2009, announced its additional contribution to the Chernobyl Fund “Hidden” by retaining a fixed share of Ukraine’s contribution of 6.51 per cent of the total amount. Thus, the change to the Framework Agreement envisions an increase in Ukrainian resources until the Chernobyl Covering Fund is completed from 50 million to 100.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u59	$160,000. It is very important for Ukraine to confirm its intentions to ratify this agreement by the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The general conclusion of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority proposes to ratify the agreement. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Integration support the bill on its adoption as a whole. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention. And please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u60	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion: two for, two against. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Dmitry Vetwicki, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u61	I propose to support this bill, because the time has come to end the Hidden. And since this is happening in our country, we need to take part in the early completion of this project and to address this problem definitively. To that end, I believe it is necessary to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u62	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to say that the old good Europe and its institutions, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, sometimes return more quickly than our country, including in solving our own, family, urgent problems such as the construction of the new Concealment. So I would like to say that the issue is absolutely urgent, and it depends on how quickly the Supreme Council itself will return to solving these problems. That is why I am in favour, and I urge that we adopt this bill as soon as possible in the form of a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u64	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the decision made when it closed. President Kuchma himself was closing down the Chernobyl nuclear station under the applause of that part that is now in the majority. You remember what you promised him and what Europe gave him. Nothing, the bubble hole was given to him by Europe. We have problems now, and it's not a Ukrainian problem -- it's a problem of a planetary scale. We have a question today that we need to save our children. We've got problems today that are developing on the thyroid, where today there's an increase in cancer tumors and so on. All of these problems remained one by one with Ukraine, all of the whole of Europe you're taking today, you're looking at it, all of the whole of Europe has been completely deaf to our needs, and more than that, it's broken its words that she's given here solemnly. Although then we were assigned heroes to some of us here and so forth. So think about it, we want to stimulate now that we're making an extra contribution. It's my job to stimulate that way. But we do not need to silence this problem and show the immorality of those responsible officials in Europe who guaranteed what they would do for Ukraine, for themselves what they would do, but they did nothing. Because of this, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you often meet different delegations, I do not go anywhere abroad, and everyone else flies, drives and spends the state budget, please ask these questions. Not like they're treating Cyprus right now. I will vote in favour, of course, but remember that they have not endured our commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to ratify the agreement. The main scientific and expert office believes that the agreement can be ratified. I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law, as the Act, on the ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the amendment of the framework agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the activities of the Chernobyl Fund for Protection in Ukraine. Registration number 0190. Please vote. [[11:11:42]] For 368 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am introducing a draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, Registration No. 0179. The proposal for a simplified procedure to address this issue. Please vote. [[11:12:19]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Sukhomlin Alexander Anatoliyovich, and co-rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u67	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, good afternoon, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments has been developed with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary to enter into an agreement between the Cabinet, the Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the promotion and mutual protection of investments signed in Kinshasa on 11 October 2000. According to paragraph “in” of the second article of the Ninth Law of Ukraine “On the International Treaties of Ukraine”, the agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the adoption of the Law “On Ratification”. Ratification of the agreement will enable foreign investors to directly implement the position of the agreement in bilateral relations, allowing foreign investors to use international and legal investment protection mechanisms, which will significantly reduce the possibility of non-commercial risks, increase the volume of foreign investment, ensure the macroeconomic stability of the Ukrainian economy. The agreement reinforces the provision of each of the investor's contractual sides to the other contractual side of the most favourable regime in terms of governance, maintenance, use, profit-making and management of its investments, a regime that is fair and equal and equally favourable than that which it provides to investors of any other country. The adoption of the law will ensure a favourable investment climate that will contribute to the development of the forward-looking directions of international investment cooperation. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u68	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u69	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, submitted to the Supreme Council pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and Article 9 of the Law on International Contracts of Ukraine. Making the agreement effective will, indeed, contribute to the development of the forward-looking directions of international investment co-operation, the involvement of foreign capital, the activation of foreign trade, the consolidation of Ukraine's international positive image as a nation with a favourable investment climate. According to the Ministry’s explanatory note, the deputy minister said that implementation of the contract would not require additional costs from the State Budget. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of the bill. The draft law was considered at a meeting of the Rules Committee, which concluded that the bill was registered under articles 90, 92 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a law. The Committee on Budget Affairs considered the draft law and concluded that its implementation would not have a negative impact on the income portion of the budget. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft law on November 3rd and noted as a flaw that this bill in our government mazes has been going on for 11 years. Once again, we turn to the government to clean up the archives and not allow them to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u71	I want to support the committee's positive recommendation decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Do we need to discuss this? Nobody insists? No, it's not. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, it's also supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, on the ratification of the agreement. So I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft law as a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. Registration number 0179. Please vote. [[11:17:45]] For 323 Decision taken. At the same time, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers on what other agreements we need to consider, but they do not go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and why we have not been able to look at them for a long time. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the following questions that opposition factions have to offer. This is a draft Energy Security Act for Ukraine. Registration number 7080. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. And co-reporter first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Kunchenko Alexei Petrovich. Please. Is it Sobolev? Then please, Kupchenko Alexei Petrovich. Is it? There's no report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On 20 October 2010, the Committee on Fuel, Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety reviewed at its meeting the draft Energy Security Act of Ukraine, author Sergey Sobolev. [[Registration number 7080]] The project is intended to prohibit the use of budgetary resources, funds received from international financial institutions and the transfer of natural gas purchased for use by consumers to meet the obligations of the State arising from the decisions of the Stockholm Chamber of Arbitration in the case of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine against Rosukrenergo ZAT. The main scientific and expert administrations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine do not support the bill, and they believe that the draft law should be rejected as a result of the first reading of the bill. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security supports these proposals and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat. Questions, please write down for three minutes. Yes, the names of the national MPs who signed up, please. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u75	You've said the essence of the question brilliantly. I have a simple question for you as to a man as to a manager. Well, when are we going to stop making the law a political subtext? When we have politics, will the opposition deputies grow up with short political pants? Well, let's do specifics, not bollocks. Well, right now, these are political ears that want to cut them with a knife. Most importantly, you have highlighted, despite the fact that the Rules do not provide for, despite the fact that the Constitution does not provide, we have, as a gesture of good faith, given the environment to the opposition. Form an agenda. Well, at least come to the meetings. Come on, yeah. There's a bill that's been passed out there and there's not even one in the room. The day of the opposition. There's no opposition in the hall! It's a disgrace, yeah!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u76	I fully and fully support this statement. There is international law. There are two decisions of the International Court of Arbitration and there is a decision of the Chewchenkov court that supports this decision. And the laws have to be enforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u77	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u79	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexi Petrovich! Of course, the issue of Ukraine's energy security is a matter of fundamental importance that affects all spheres of the vitality of our state and society. And it can only be provided with high levels of energy security when the efforts of all -- the President, the Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers and all the political structures -- are united. Because it's a matter of strategic importance. As a result, how do you formulate, and what grade do you give? That instead of being involved in the combined loading of the gas transport system, modernization, demanding and choosing favourable prices for Ukrainian consumers for natural gas to be competitive, actually working with the European Parliament, looking for a balance of interests between suppliers, transitors and consumers of gas, we are looking at.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u81	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u82	We are dealing with these politicized issues, which once again undermine international trust in Ukraine and demonstrate that Ukraine continues to be a very shameful tradition of non-consolidation in politics, in a state to protect the fundamental national interests, the energy security of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u83	Anatoly Kirilovich, I listened very carefully to your statement today. have spoken at the outset in addressing the deputies. Indeed, today the issue of Ukraine's gas supply, the search for alternative fuels to make our economy competitive, our industry is a very important issue. And what it today calls for is, of course, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, Parliament, I think that in this construct, we need to seek the energy security and energy security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u84	Thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. Dear colleagues, how long will we take to discuss this issue? It's just you. Just a minute. I'm in favour of a full-time procedure, but let's look at one of these issues that there wasn't a reporter. And then you'll say again that there are no other questions being considered. Is this a process or a question? All right, let's go, let's go, let's go. Please write down from factions first. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Now sign up for the national MPs. Please show me your last name, too. So, dear colleagues, we have 7 people enrolled, we're going to discuss this. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Basil Kiselov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u85	Dear fellow countrymen! In considering the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention, individual deputies spoke about the ratification and non-execution of the convention. As we consider this issue, look at the draft law, we are urged not to implement the UN Council Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Decisions. Dear citizens, honourable MPs, this is another mine under the authority of Ukraine and cannot vote in favour of this law, it must be rejected. But I would like to draw attention to the reasons behind this problem. I'm not even going to talk about taking gas illegally, and today we're being called upon not to comply with the ruling of the Court of Arbitration. I want to say that the reason is that during President Yushchenk's reign, on the initiative of the Ukrainian side, and the Ukrainian side itself, a very favourable Agreement on the Supply of Gas to Ukraine was broken. And instead, Timoshenko’s government was written down. It's a very cordial condition signed. a gas supply agreement in Ukraine. I think so. I would like to remind everyone of the amendments to the Pipeline Transport Act, which prohibited the practical use of Ukraine's GTS. I think that today this law would have to be rejected and, at the same time, I cannot help but recall that in view of the pathological hatred of the Russian Federation today, Ukrainians suffer and continue to suffer at a high price for gas and all that goes on, I would suggest that we create a temporary investigation commission and find out who brought Ukraine to the conclusion of such cable agreements and broken gas agreements that are convenient and why we are being called upon today not to comply with the decisions of the arbitral tribunals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u86	Odarchenko hands over the right to speak to Alexander Gudimi, the BUT-Paternity faction. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u87	Gudima, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland Party. Dear Head! Deputies! In a few minutes, the main political conductor of the Party of the Regions will give the team no support for the bill. I mean, I know everyone understands why he's doing this. I would like to make the point a little clearer for the radio audience because it was not properly explained. The point is that President Janukovic, along with his immediate surroundings, has decided to return 12 billion metres of cubic gas to one of his team, the leader of Rosukreenergo, Mr. Firthash. What will this cost the Ukrainian State? 12 billion meters of cubic gas is more than 30 billion dollars to return to Mr. Firtash for Ukrainian gas. How can this be done? Two ways: or in a month's time, the Party of Regions will budget 2011 and those 30 billion will give 46 million Ukrainians -- there is no other way; and there is another way -- to borrow from the International Monetary Fund, which the Party of Regions is talking about every day, to borrow those 30 billion dollars, to return the Firthash, and all the following years those 46 million Ukrainians will return that money to Mr. Firthash again. What are we talking about today? There is no final decision of the court. All judicial decisions today are brought before the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine is to put the final point in the dispute: A party of regions against the Ukrainian people. I think today, when we vote in favour of rejecting this bill, we have to talk about the consequences. The main reformer of the Party of Regions, Mr. Tihypco, warns the Ukrainians that 50 percent of April 1st gas will be raised again. But he didn't take into account that the 30 billion dollars that we, you, the distinguished representatives of the Party of Regions, want to give to Mr. Firtash, is an additional yoke for 46 million Ukrainians. And the price for gas will have to be raised again. We understand that this is a political bill. And we're asking the International Monetary Fund to think about it the next time, or to give Ukraine a loan that will go to the satisfaction of the ambitions of one of the Party of Regions' favorite oligarchs. I mean, patriots will no doubt vote in favour because they can't rob up to 46 million of President Yanukovic's closest surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u88	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u89	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! What is politics about now? If the performance and service of the Ukrainian people is the highest policy of each of us who took an oath here to the Ukrainian people, then voting for this law is the responsibility of every patriot of Ukraine, I emphasize, every single one. What's wrong with that? Article three: “Prohibit the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the use of budgetary resources, as well as from the funds provided by international financial institutions to fulfil the obligations of the State arising from the decisions of the Stockholm Arbitration Commission in the Naftogaz case against the Roskrenergo ZAT, to oblige the Cabinet to ban the transfer of natural gas purchased by consumers for the fulfilment of commitments” arising from the decisions of this so-called arbitration. Why do I say "so-called"? Because this institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and Industry is just such an institution. There are no Ukrainians for us. I emphasize: Open the Constitution of Ukraine, and it says that the decisions of the courts are being carried out throughout Ukraine, our Ukrainian courts! And now I remind you and your government, under the leadership of Azarov, that we now have 1 million 28,000 calls from children of war for one and a half billion. One million 28 by one and a half billion dollars you're not making, but you're making all the places in Lakeland to do it with Ukraine instead of you. So, dear friends, first make more than 10 million decisions in favor of Ukrainian citizens, and then lighten up, hallow! You've already planted an innocent Makarenko, a manager, an honest officer, a head of State Customs. You let him sit right now! What is 11 billion cubic meters of gas? What compensation is another $197 million. This is more than 50 percent of everything that is produced in Ukraine in a year. Over 50 percent. And right now, a device you don't even want to hide, and put this suit in order. For you, first of all, call the children of war, or you think it's better if they die out that 1.5 million people, 1.28,000 people, and you've already called 1.5 million. And you give the command to the judicial authority not to execute them. Everyone is voting in favour of this law. It's lacquer paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u90	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A draft law to ensure Ukraine’s energy security related to the functioning of the natural gas market proposes banning the Cabinet of Ministers from using budgetary resources as well as the funds involved by international financial institutions to implement Stockholm’s decisions. Let us note that, according to article 2 of the draft, this law will regulate social relations arising from the obligation of the State to carry out the decision of the Stockholm Arbitration in the case of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” against ZAT “Rosukrenerego”, i.e. the execution of one court decision. In this context, these relationships should not be regulated by law, since the law as a legal instrument should be counted on for repeated application rather than for a specific issue. We also note that the procedure for recognition of a decision by a foreign arbitral tribunal is laid down by the UN Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Decisions by the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. Article 35 of the Ukrainian Law on International Commercial Arbitration states that an arbitral decision, irrespective of the country in which it is issued, shall be declared binding and shall be taken into account when brought before a competent court. [[written trouble]] That is, the decisions of foreign arbitration courts, including the Stockholm Chamber of Arbitration, are made in Ukraine on the basis of the United Nations Convention. The adoption of a law in this way may violate the principle of the distribution of power to the legislative, executive and judicial branches, according to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not act as a judicial branch of power. Once again, the Supreme Council should not act as a judicial branch of power, we are the higher legislative branch of power. Pay attention to article 3 of the project in which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is banned -- think about it! – prohibits the execution of a court decision. Recall that failure to execute a court’s decision by Ukraine’s legislation calls for criminal responsibility. The bill is also prepared to break the rules and adopt the theory of law. And I think, in our opinion, this bill is very imperfect, it needs to be rejected and not disgraced by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u92	Andrey Pavlovsky, the “BUT - Fatherland” faction, will be next on the speech by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u93	Dear people's deputies, dear fellow countrymen, I am addressing you more, because think about it! - that's the point of the bill. In order to prohibit the use of budgetary funds, public funds, I stress, funds, and funds received from international financial organizations, including the International Monetary Fund, to pass them on to the private intermediation structure, the main sponsor of the Party of Regions, Mr. Firtas, let's call it our names. And you, colleagues from the Party of Regions, are eager to cut up almost 30 billion dollars of budget money, the price of 30 billion dollars. That's why I understand why such a hurry to execute these impertinent court decisions when there were rats, a game in the soles when Naftogaz removed all his claims to give Firthash these billions of bracelets or natural gas. And that's because Mr. Firtash's chemical business received gas-price benefits, and for the population, you've raised 50 percent of the price for gas, for utilities, and from April 1, you're going to raise 50 percent again. So the price of gas for ordinary people is going to be raised twice, and for Firthash, you're making concessions and you're going to give him 30 billion dollars in your private pocket. So who's the bigger patriot, the former leader of Makarenko, who's now three months behind bars for what? The man stood up for the State’s interests, giving away the state gas that belonged to Naftogazu to the State. This is why a person is currently in prison. Is that why you're holding him? Are you the larger patriots you want to put in the private pocket of the owners of the semi-criminal structure of Rossukre Energo? I think the people see it and they'll figure it out. First of all, national interests must be above all else. Forget that you are representatives, or maybe some of you are on the salary of this oligarch. State interests and national interests are above all else.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u94	Vladimir Yavorovský Faction “BUT- “Fatherhood”. Fomin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u95	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Fomin gives me three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u96	Please, where's Fomin?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u97	He's sitting right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u98	Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u99	Dear voters! First of all, we appeal to you, in your mind, to your memory. You know, respectable colleagues, for a long time, for me was the pattern of demagogy -- it's such an episode. The party’s secretary was Bogdan Chali, and he was elected secretary of the National Union of Ukrainian Writers. He came to the "Aeneus" restaurant with a small drink, came to me and said something like this: "I know you voted against me, but I'm very glad you voted against me, not some pig." This was the peak of total demagogy for me. It turns out it's in the past. The peak of demagogy today is, here's a classic, crossmatomy literal example, when some of the authorities today say that it's if we suddenly vote on the Soboljeva bill, which comes and is present. If you need Sergei, Mr. Sergei, if you need me, I can give you three minutes for the speech. I can give you three minutes for your Mr. Sergei's speech. Because of this, to speak today of the fact that if this bill is adopted, it is a mine under the authority of Ukraine. But have a good conscience, people. That mine under the authority of Ukraine is that one of these judges gave a very large interview in The New York Times, where he said: “For my long biography of the judiciary I first saw when the state calls out its lawyers, its lawyers, and consciously loses it all, such as it has never been in court practice before, to call the country back”, and that was, indeed, true! And unless today, forgive me, could anyone doubt that this could not have been done without the participation of the President, without the participation of Azarov, without the participation of this entire “company” who today wants to tear out this indignant people who are defending their rights by going here to make some money in their little “gendelics” and in this small business? But you're adopting this same document that you want to accept tomorrow under the "hurrah," but you're creating a country that's extremely dangerous, where there's not going to be a middle class, where there's only going to be a very rich and illuminated people who will then go against these with the villas. If there is no middle class, no country, no democracy, you destroy it the same way! As a result, we are well aware that this bill will not pass today because it cannot be done under your morals or under your political platform! As a result, we felt it necessary to say so in order for people to hear about it. I give you my word, I have three minutes left, Sergio Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u100	Yes, Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u101	Thank you! What was the purpose of the bill, and why was it to be introduced into the session room? We have heard from the high officials of Ukraine that in no way will the funds we receive from the International Monetary Background be used, in no way will the budget be used even if the decision is passed by the Ukrainian courts. It is for this reason that, in order to confirm that the Ukrainian Parliament insists on a legislative initiative that no amount of public funds of the State budget, international organisations that lend their loans on already favourable terms, but which will still have to be given up, cannot be used to account for these costs with Mr. Firtas, in view of the fact that the Ukrainian State, which was represented by Naftogaz Ukraine and Ural-Gazprom, as a representative of the Russian State, has entered into an agreement under which the full volume of gas has been bought and for which the Ukrainian State structure of the RAO “Gazprom” has been paid. What other questions might there be? How can the possibility of a return of money or gas by Ukraine arise in the essence of this issue? I think it's a question of a study that a special investigation committee is doing today. That's why this bill makes it impossible not only in this case, but for the future to be budgeted by the state budget, or by the cost of international financial institutions for such equipment, when, in fact, today, with the name of the state, billions of dollars will be reimbursed to the Ukrainian business. I think this bill will still be approved in the session room, if not by this Parliament, the next. And those who have planned this equipment, how to account for the previous election campaign with the chief sponsor, will still be responsible for such things. That's why the bill is very simple. But at the same time, he's aware of clearly preventing the possibility of using public finances to calculate any equipment, all the more when it comes to private business interests, let's even let the richest people in Ukraine. That is why our faction insists that this bill be adopted at least in the first reading. We're willing to take into account all the warnings that are going to be in the session room, the warnings that have been given by scientific and expert management and practice. There is also this practice in the Russian Federation, which has clearly passed the decision to prohibit settlement of decisions by international courts without the appropriate decision of its own court and government of the State of the Russian Federation. I think we should adopt such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, thank you. Question completed. I remind you of the committee's conclusion is that the bill needs to be rejected. The main scientific and expert office also considers it necessary to recommend rejecting the bill. At the same time, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Energy Security Act. Registration number 7080. [[11:47:11]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, BUT, “Fatherland” – 104, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 32, Communists, “Block of Lithuania” – 0, non-fractional – 2. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 7080]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:50]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving national regulation of product safety is under consideration. Registration number 6237. Here is a proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself. [[11:48:31]] For the 15th. The offer is not supported. We'll consider the full procedure. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Kseniya Mikhailovna Ljapina. Correspondent is Secretary of the Health Committee, Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Kseniya Lapina, Party “For Ukraine!” This bill is aimed at implementing technical regulation reform and confirming compliance in the field of product quality and safety control. These reforms are defined by several international agreements, in particular the Agreement which we have all ratified here on membership in the World Trade Organization, is today the cornerstone of the negotiations on a free trade zone with the EU. And as far as I know, these reforms are the key to President Yanukovic's programme today and, in fact, a number of his bills are also aimed at this reform. My bill refers to a particular part of this reform and refers to the amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare, which amends article 14, which deals with safety requirements for the health of the population in national standards and other legal instruments. I remind you that according to the Standardization Act, according to our obligations under international and, in fact, Yanukovich’s programs are voluntary today. And they may be required to be used only under conditions where they are in legislation, laws or regulations of the government, or orders of the Ministry, which are registered as legal acts, refer to the obligation to comply with certain standards. Actually, that's exactly what my amendment is about. The point is that safety requirements are defined by regulatory acts, and standards are mandatory only if a reference is made to these standards in legal acts. Similarly, I propose in article 25 of this law, where it is about compulsory certification, to replace it with the modern term “confirmation of conformity”. Let me remind you, certification is just one way to confirm compliance, so-called third-party conformity confirmation. There are other ways to confirm compliance. And according to the reforms stated today, exactly other methods, such as declarations, are being extended, and the scope of compulsory certification is being narrowed down, i.e. confirmation by a third party. Worldwide, this is seen as a reform of more effective safety control. That's exactly the way my proposal works. I propose to replace the term of certification with the term of confirmation. So I also suggest that in the main directions of the health care service, add a direction such as the setting up of sanitary and sanitary requirements for waste-derived products in legal acts. And this today is the area of discussion that controls who gives permission to do things like that. Sanitary epidemiology or special organ? As a result, as always, we were duplicating. Two services are granted permission. As part of the reforms that have been made in the country today, we have to finally identify one institution that makes decisions that gives permission. Others issue legislation that lays down requirements. That's exactly what I'm talking about. I know there's a negative decision on the committee. I know that the Hall is preparing to reject this bill and I know why. Because the government itself is now preparing a bill of similar meaning. I understand everything. I understand that the government wants to be the sole author of these reforms. But I'm sorry, it's just a very long way. The reform will still take place. What difference does it make? It will take place through the completion of this bill or will it take place through the passing of a bill to the government? The essence of this reform will in fact not change in any way. And the decision to reject this bill is purely political. In no way is there a well - founded, meaningful part. I suggest you change that decision. Support my bill and make second reading proposals that the government might want to make to improve its own implementation. Maybe it'll add up, maybe it'll expand. I think it will be a shorter way to implement the proposed, marked and declared reforms that are necessary, I repeat, both in terms of Ukraine's international commitments and in terms of such a simple necessary thing as creating a normal, positive entrepreneurial climate in Ukraine and ensuring real and effective security control. Because today it's nominally declared this control, it's really very weak. And we all know how often we encounter in the consumer market and in the production of dangerous products and goods. So this reform is necessary and, in fact, the sooner we do it, the better it will be for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. So far, I have a question for you, Kseniya Mikhailna. What's the difference between the certification of the product that is now in the law and what you're proposing is the conformity assessment, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u105	Thank you. I remind you, we have an appropriate law confirming compliance, which determines that the conformity assessment is carried out in several ways, yes, certification is one way of confirming the third party, i.e. there is a third party, a state, a state laboratory that conducts the analysis confirms the appropriateness. There are other ways to confirm compliance. In fact, once again, I want to say that there is now a wide, so-called declaration of conformity -- that when the manufacturer himself takes responsibility, declares the parameters of conformity, and then in the market he encounters what can control it, and if it is controlled and set up, he bears a very serious responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u106	I mean, I got it right that you're softening the quality requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u107	On the contrary, I make these demands. The requirements are laid down by legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u108	Now for the certification.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u109	Only standards that are not required to be met. That's why I make demands harder. And you're saying that I'm changing the control process. Yes, I'm changing, I'm making this process more efficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u110	Right. Please, who signed up for the question? Shevchuk Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u111	Sergey Shevchuk, Faction "BUT" - "The Fatherland." Dear Adam Ivanovich, you have made a slight mistake. You said they're getting washed up. In this case, it doesn't even wash away, it destroys any control mechanisms. And I'm going to give an example, and I want to ask the reporter. Article 25 of the current legislation on sanitary and epidemiological well-being defines that production, storage, transport of toxic substances, I emphasize, toxic substances are carried out under the conditions of compliance with sanitary standards and the permission of the State San service. It's an active law. What are you bringing in? You submit that this is the case with the permission of the authorities specifically authorized to do so in the order established by Kabmin. So you're rejecting sanitation, you're not setting up those organs, and in fact you want to make sure that there's not for a long time any organ that controls the production of toxic substances. That's what this law accomplishes. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u112	Thank you. Let me answer that. Unfortunately, you quoted a valid norm not entirely. Today, the norm is established by the permission of the State Sanitary Epidemiology Service, as well as by the permission of others specially authorized to do so. That's what I said. Today there's a double-liberal system. I suggest you make it what it's supposed to be, one permit -- one action. And actually these organs are set up, and this is it. the Constitution is solely the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers to set up control bodies. And I propose to the Sanitary Epidemiology Service that I do what it's supposed to do, i.e. by establishing in legal acts the same requirements that this action is allowed to do. So once again, I'm confirming that I'm making the demands more stringent and I'm making the controls more effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u113	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Xenia Mikhailevna! I understand what you wanted to do as well, but unfortunately, I don't think it works better because Shevchuk was right. We have part 3 of article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which relies on the State to control the quality and safety of all services and jobs. That is the responsibility of the State. In this case, in my opinion, it's blurry. And don't you know what this government is doing in practice now that it's changed in eight months, I'm stressing the word "seven"! – heads of the Ukrainian Institute for Research and Research by Standards. Seven leaders have been destroyed, and one third have been released. It's all being smoked by the Mineconomy and by the faction of the Communists. That's why you think you should.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u115	I want to point out that this law does not apply in any way to the State, nor to the institution that you just mentioned. But let's still focus on the subject matter of the law, not the general thing. The subject is very clear: in this case, no government function is washed away or eliminated because the state is performing the function that you quoted, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. I reiterate: Ukraine's law has established methods and ways of confirming compliance. And certification is not the only way to confirm compliance. And once again, this reform is still going to happen. And I'm going to be very interested to see how this room is going to discuss the same standards when they're presented by the government, and there's going to be a whole different atmosphere, and everyone's going to be screaming, how good it is that this reform is being done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Lilia Stepanovna! We're going to call it a break, and after the break, we're going to listen to the report, the answers to the questions, and we're going to talk about it, because we're still not going to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we will continue our sessions. Please contact the Committee, Secretary of the Health Committee, Lily Stepanovna Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u118	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Health at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving national product safety regulations submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Kseniya Mikhail’s Lapina. In the presence of the author of the bill, according to the author, the purpose of the bill is to regulate production safety according to European standards. However, the Committee on European Integration concluded that the bill was not compatible with European Union legislation. Our committee also made a number of remarks to this bill. First, its adoption, as proposed, will not solve the main problem in this area -- a clear distinction on the legislative level of technical regulation and with sanitary measures, and measures that are designed and applied on the basis of medical safety requirements for human health. Secondly, the changes in the bill are balancing the already existing system of product safety regulation. For example, article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment Procedures states that the conformity assessment procedure does not extend to sanitary measures designed and applied to protect a person from the risks associated with food products and measures that are designed and applied on the basis of safety requirements for human health. At the same time, the changes proposed by the author to articles 14 and 17 provide for the application of such products. for food and food, and for health - care legislation, health requirements for health and public life. Finally, the health and hygiene requirements for waste products are established, not by legal acts, but by appropriate technical documentation, which is consistent in each particular case when dealing with the question of how products are disposed of. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus also points to a number of shortcomings in the bill and recommends that it be rejected. In recognition of the deep respect and understanding of the individual amendments made by author Kseniya Mikhailna Llapina, I am forced to publish the committee’s opinion. In view of what has been said, the Health Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 6237, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Leapina Kseniya Mikhailna, for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u119	Thank you. If you have any questions, please sign in. Yes, please, Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u120	Thank you. Lilia Stepanovna, is it known on the committee that the bill is currently being drafted by the government or the President? Has it ever been reported whether the contents of a similar bill are being discussed, which will make similar changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. Dear Kseniya Mikhailnna, of course, information that something is being developed, we know, but the committee can only consider the bill. Therefore, we certainly do not discuss or discuss ideas. However, there was a position in this room that this bill might not be supported. But I also want to make a point that if there comes a similar bill with similar observations, but with other authorship, I urge Parliament to be equally vigilant and principled because it is about human health, not about fighting for whose authority and whose priority, including political one, will be more successful.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u122	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Shevchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear Lilia Stepanovna, please tell me what you think. The bill introduces a new concept of “safety” instead of a requirement of safety and the notion of “safety” for the health and life of the food population. And the author believes that safety is a stronger, strict concept. Do you agree? If they agree, then maybe the Ukrainian Security Service will change the name to the Ukrainian Security Service, because it is a stronger concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. I'm here to publish the committee's opinion, and the committee recommends that the bill be sent for further work. If you want to check my philological preferences, I agree with you, the word "safety" sounds stronger and has more meaning than "safety".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u125	Thank you, please sit down, Lilia Stepanovna, no longer wanting to ask questions. Please sign up for factions. Yes, now, please, from the deputies. Yes, well, 10 minutes to discuss, please. Kouzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. Which of the factions of the regions will speak? None. Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, and Leipzig to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u126	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. So that I don't have any charges against my subjectivity address, I'm just going to take a comparative table between the law in force and the authors in question, and I'm actually comparing some of the concepts. Article 14, as I have already asked, is the health and life of the population from food, changed by the abstract notion of “safety”, and this has been done unconsciously. In the same article 14, there is a standard of “security requirements for the health and life of the population are mandatory in national standards”. What does the author propose? The author suggests that “the health and life requirements of the population are mandatory, ” I quote, think! – “in the event that this is defined by legislation”. Seems like a little bit of an adjustment. What if it's not defined? What if it is five years old? What does it mean that we will not have these requirements at all? Next. The product, the law in force, which is required by national standards for the safety of the population, is subject to mandatory certification. A little correction is proposed. Production, still in the text. The amendment is based on a decision made by a specially authorized body in the respective lists. And if these organs are not defined or if they haven't submitted these lists, they haven't created them? So that means there'll be no certification, no control. Generally, the issue of certification is blurring away, and a conformity assessment is being performed instead. Although the author certainly knows that in Ukrainian legislation the procedure of conformity assessment does not extend to sanitary measures designed to protect a person from the risks associated with food products. Next. When it comes to the use of chemicals and biological materials, toxic hazardous substances. So far, the State Epidemiology Service has taken priority. They determined how dangerous one’s products are to one’s life. The author suggests rejecting the State's Epidemiology Service and introducing an unknown authority that is specifically authorized to do so. When authorized, how much time will we have to exercise uncontrolledness? Adam Ivanovich, I have an offer. Please make a dining room in the Supreme Council, or at least a buffer for those who will feed on genetically modified, non-standard, pesticides, food supplements, foods stored by petrol. Maybe one of the deputies will go and eat. If that happens and those authors eat there, then I'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u128	And I'll call you. Because today a national MP will always find a clean product for himself, for his family, for his family, and for his acquaintances. For the population, please, uncontrolled production is what is recommended in this bill. It can't be accepted by anyone who's not the author, whether it's today's author or tomorrow's author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” In fact, there are a lot of lobbyists here, including the Sanitary Epidemiology Service, who absolutely do not want to give up their control powers. And somehow she's not really going to do what she's supposed to do, that's to say, laying down legal requirements, but she doesn't want to do it. Because it's good to control an entrepreneur and it's good to set up a legal framework. The requirements of legal acts are to work with the head and also to receive solely state wages. Clearly, the Sanitary Service is totally against it. Now it's in the context of the comments that were made here. First. Security switch. I report, fellow Members, the Security Service has nothing to do with the concept of “safety” of a particular product, service and so on. These are two different concepts, which is why I use the word "safety". Safety is a very general concept that cannot be measured, and the safety of a particular product can and should be measured. And if you want to leave something immeasurable, you're putting our citizens in danger. Because no one knows what the criteria are, and that's when this security fits. That's the first one. The other one. There is a lot of concern about government standards. I remind you, read the Standardization Act. State standards are now, I emphasize, discard your illusions, are not mandatory, are not. So by rejecting the reform I'm proposing, you're leaving the food sector uncontrollable. And finally, third. I repeat 55 times: read the law confirming compliance. Certification is only one way to confirm compliance. If you do not believe that confirmations of conformity are distributed to food products, then certification is not distributed to them either. What method, then, can we use to monitor compliance with the requirements set by the Sanitary Service? We don't know. And I answer: only one method is to confirm compliance with these requirements. Finally, we need to complete the botology and protection of specific government officials who are very willing to receive bribes, and finally move on to a normal reform that will ensure effective protection of citizens, not permanent declarations, but rather all the problems that today are very well known in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will determine his fate. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving national product safety regulation]] [[Registration number 6237]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:06]] For-29 It was an offer to send the author to work on it. I'll put this motion to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:43:32]] For-45 The decision is not supported. The bill is rejected. Here we go to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of agricultural societies. [[draft colleague Zvarić]] [[Registration number 1345]] There's a short cut. Do you mind, Roman Mikhailovich? I'm putting this motion to a vote. A motion for a reduced procedure shall be put to the vote. [[12:44:20]] For 20 Sas says the law is serious. Indeed, 20 votes were not supported. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I do not know how serious this project is and whether it deserves to be fully discussed, but I hope that it is done in an appropriate manner. I will try to explain as precisely as possible the need for such a bill. Dear colleagues! In 1991 the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a law that is practically in force today. This is the Law on Associations of Households. So in 20 years of our work together, we've been doing this law, this basic law that regulates the activities of our societies has not changed. Of course, changes were made, and the Civil Code and the Code of Masters were adopted, corresponding changes were made to these codes, which in fact were adopted by other laws that affected the activities of agricultural societies. However, it seems to me that the time has come to be a little more precise, better to regulate the activities of farm societies. By the way, considering the exact correct dispositions contained, especially in the Civil Code. What is it? And once again, I emphasize, it's just about improving, actually, these positions that are now in the legal and regulatory framework. First of all, the bill that I am introducing for your consideration proposes to clarify certain provisions on the possibility of transferring rights to members of the association to participate in the same company of other persons. Another point. It is suggested that the order for the participants to sign changes to the installation documents should be more clearly defined. Now in the basic law, this order is not defined at all. I suggest this order, at least a little bit clearer. And in particular, there's also a few there that's individual positions that I put in order, in fact, to secure and protect the rights of minority members of any society, particularly those that have no power to influence decision-making by a higher authority, the same association. And here comes the list, a few of those positions I'll call you. Establishing the responsibility of the company to make a share of the income and still to pay off dividends. This is already an eternal problem in Ukraine, and we keep talking about it, and it's still not solved, so there's no clear norm that would oblige minority owners to pay such dividends. I also propose that we establish a duty of association at the request of a participant who has not voted in favour of one or another decision to buy out part of it or part of it. I also propose that the list of documents that the Society is required to keep at its location will help to improve the conditions for the exercise of the right of the participant to receive information about the activities of one society or another. And by the way, what I'm saying here is that it's just that current legislation doesn't solve the issue of document storage, it's an issue that's not settled. So it seems to me that once again, in order to protect the rights of minority participants in the company of storing this documentation in a place where a member of the company can contact, and I think it would be absolutely logical and even desirable. Well there are other positions that are also defined in the bill itself. I'd like to say two more things to finish right away. The bill does not require additional financial obligations there, changes to the budget, or something like that, first. And secondly, the science-expert management on page 4 wrote quite a lot of small notes there, virtually with each of them. I can agree with any of these comments, and I don't see the problem of taking them into account in the preparation of this bill for consideration at the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. The conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority is acceptable, and therefore, dear colleagues, I propose that you support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Is there a need to ask questions? You don't? No one wants to. Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Please, from the committee. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u134	Good day, chairman, good day, distinguished colleagues, the Committee has considered the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine send it for work. For what reasons: First. During this time, and the bill was submitted in January 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of changes, including in the Economic Society Act. And if you open up in the League itself the Business Society Act, you will see that it has actually changed many times at the time of its adoption. The latest changes, if not mistaken, were included at the end of last year, 2009. And these changes, by the way, some of the reasonable, right things that the author has written in his bill have already been taken into account and have already been done. For example, the Act of Shareholder Societies, including. It's about stock companies. Including the payment of dividends. We already have a 30 per cent commitment on dividends, and it is established by us here in the Supreme Council. There's no such bet in this law, yes, if I'm not mistaken. But it's still legislated. What's the point in this bill? And why didn't we offer to reject him? Reasonable changes in themselves. in the section of the Economic Society Act concerning the regulatory activities of a limited society. Because there is still a need for change, including those proposed by the author. But with regard to equity societies, the Civil Code and so on, it is already, in principle, already included in its proposal in some form. That's the logic I came to you from the committee. I mean, the proposal is to send him to the drafter of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u135	Thank you. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for a faction discussion. Yes, from the MPs, if they wish. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the honourable drafter of the bill, every bill that goes into the session hall is known to have its own history. What, then, is the need to adopt a bill that seeks to achieve this bill, which means what are the ways to achieve this bill? I want to stop at two aspects that the honourable author of this bill, who here in the rostrum, has forgotten his golden author. The obligation to pay dividends. Dear colleagues, with this question, each one of us who has a bearing on the county or who knows how the work of the shareholders society is being built must have been concerned. See what it means to pay off dividends. Do you make decisions at stockholder meetings why you do not allow an alternative? To make a decision at stockholders and dividends congregations the amount to be paid for upgrading and upgrading the core production funds. Dear colleagues, there will be parliamentary hearings in this session hall today since the third hour. One of the most important causes of great trauma and mortality in production is the ferocity of the basic production funds in our industrial enterprises. There are mechanisms and equipment that simply pose a threat to life, to human health, and to the environment. So I don't think we can predict, at the legislative level, the obligation to pay dividends for the Minorators. On the other hand, Roman Mikhailovich, look what you're writing. The shareholder has the right not to contribute further to the increase in the statutory capital of society. Well, then, if he's a minority and he doesn't want to participate in the development of this or any other equity company, then he'll be left, not a minority, but a microscopic shareholder of a stockholder. So in this case, there is some contradiction. And one more thing. You are well aware of the Law on Economic Associations and the Civil Code of Ukraine, which you have developed. A member of the Society is obliged to carry out his obligations to the Society, including those related to the shareholding, as well as to make contributions in size, order, and means provided for in the instruments. I think the purpose was in itself set by the drafter of the bill in a clear, soundful manner. But ways to achieve this goal are yet to be improved. So I think we can support the proposal of a profile committee and return to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to draft Bill 1345. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Speaking of previous speakers, I'd like to say you're the bad guys. You're angry with most of the Ukrainian population that owns these shares, this time. And the second is for which this bill is intended. I didn't say a word to a colleague of mine about this bill. But I want to thank him from this high rostrum for drafting this bill. Because, according to this bill, the accrual and payment of the share of profits is made at least once a year, at least 15 percent of the net profit. This is what is not being done anywhere today, nor any minority owners. This time. The other one. In order not to blur out what is now, additional emissions and then this fate becomes absolutely zero, it is proposed that this society be obliged to buy out a share of a participant who did not vote in favour of a decision to increase the statutory fund. The third positive thing. It is compulsory to keep documents related to the activity of the association. What's wrong, people are good?Oh, my God! Next. The Society is obliged to purchase a share when the documents are in place to prohibit the transfer of the share to third parties. Where do you think you're going? Because it turns out that these little things sit around, they hold these papers, they keep the papers, they use big ones, they don't give the little ones anything! And those little mostly of those who started playing these games in the state, I mean. Next. The maximum number of limited - liability members increases from 10 to 50. Moreover, the gaps and coalitions that exist between the Master’s Code, the Civil Code, the Law on Associations of Households are eliminated. A dozen years ago, from this rostrum, I said, "Honorable, the Codex of the Master, it's a codex that's been sucked out of my finger!" They regulate the same legal relationship. One day we will come to that conclusion. Then maybe we can understand a lot of things. But what I want to remind you is that we have a very interesting conclusion from Science and Technology. He says that this law can be adopted on the basis of the following considerations and suggestions. I'll remind you that the law was passed back in December 2008, 2 years ago. Obviously, it should be accepted in the first reading and further developed. This is in the interests of most Ukrainian citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u139	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The project proposes to amend the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, in order to reconcile them and further improve the legislative regulation of the activities of agricultural societies. At the same time, the proposed changes to article 63 of the Ukrainian Code of Masters to species and organizational forms of business have been attributed to an enterprise that is not provided for by the Ukrainian Civil Code. It is also better not to replace the term “children” with “dependent” in the amendment to part eight of article 63 of the master code of Ukraine, but rather to use the term “children” as equivalent, for example, in article 126 of the Code. In addition, an appropriate terminological replacement should also be made in part four of article 116 of the Code. It is also inappropriate to replace the term “type of association” with “form of association”. We believe that the right to decide whether to use income to pay the participants or to develop society belongs to the participants themselves. In this regard, it is not appropriate to make the proposed changes to section “b” of part 1 of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. At the same time, the automatic distribution of dividends among participants is possible if the association has not made a decision on their use within the set time limit. The granting of a member of the association the right not to make an additional contribution to the increase in the statutory capital of the association proposed in addition to part two of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies contradicts the second part of article 117 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, according to which members of the association are obliged to fulfil their obligations to society, including those relating to property participation, as well as to make contributions, to pay the shares in size, order and means provided for in the document. The same supplement should take into account that the market value of shares sold on stock exchanges should be determined according to their exchange rate. Dear People's Deputies, I propose to support the position of the majority of our Ukraine and of the BIT, which will reject this law. We'll see it by voting on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u141	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Is there a need for the author to conclude the word “brother ”? Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I am in two positions. First of all, I'm grateful that we're discussing this issue. the depoliticized atmosphere. I feel that there is an understanding, especially in the profile committee, judging by his representative's presentation, that we should still improve legislation in this area. I do not deny that there have really been quite extensive changes that have been made, particularly in the Civil Code, but I am deeply convinced that it will be difficult to convince someone that they are perfect, which, by the way, also partly spoke to the reporter from the profile committee. I'm convinced that this line does have to move, and it seems to me that my bill is pushing us to follow this line. I would then suggest that he be accepted in the first reading, and at the level of the profiling committee, he could then be prepared so that we can actually do what we haven't done yet. And one more time, a bill that can be considered, judging by experience, in about two years, well, this is not entirely rational. Now it's more in detail, because it's here. Some such conflict is, on the one hand, the obligation of a member of a sharer’s company to work for the company itself, according to the decisions he has made. On the other hand, there is an obligation to pay dividends. Well, this is an artificial conflict, gentlemen. I mean, I don't see any colossals here. What's more, my bill has a very clear norm, that in the case that the shareholder in the stockholder company did not vote in favour of any decision there, for example, Mr. Jaroslave Suchiy, that some part of the profit should be turned over for depreciation purposes. [[I don't see him right now.]] Of course, then the company is obliged to offer, in fact, to buy out its shares or part of its shares. This seems quite right to me, and this really protects the interests of that minority participant. Nevertheless, I would like to support you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u143	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I'm proposing adoption on the basis of Bill 1345 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of agricultural societies. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:30.]] For-86 The bill is not supported, it is considered rejected. Although here, my dear fellows, I would like once again to draw your attention to the position that was expressed on behalf of the profile committee that the law itself is not so bad. It was just two years old, and part of the positions proposed by the author were already included in other bills. So he's lost some of his relevance. But it's going to be the same. The draft Law on Amendments is under consideration. Try it. Who's in charge of re-reading the first reading, please make up your mind. [[13:06:30.]] For-84 Even less. "For" – 84 This is I see, you're just tearing down the issue of opposition, Yuri Anatolyevich, you're stalling. A draft Act amending the Mining Act of Ukraine on compensation for municipal services is under consideration. Bill 5294. Now, now, I'm going to see who the author is. Who's in favour of reviewing the bill on short notice, please vote. [[13:07:31]] For-48 The offer is not supported. Please, Mikhail Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u144	People's deputies are the authors of the bill: Royal Natalia Yuriyovna and Wolinec of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u145	Mikhail Yakovic, then, please, I think you're here in one person, that is, we'll consider you a reporter and a co-reporter from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u146	Thank you. In ancient Soviet times, miners who work hard underground had the right to obtain coal to melt their homes. But not all miners had that right. And in order to restore justice, as this is happening all over the world, the Mining Law was passed back in the '90s. An article of this Mining Law stipulated that those miners who live in central heating houses and where there is gas, gas stoves, also have the right to receive compensation for the use of electricity and gas. And in some cases, where there were strong coal mines, there were records of this rule in the warehouse, and it was done, and compensation was paid. Well, for example, in Pavlovgrad there's now a compensation for a year of about 1 thousand 700 dollars, well, a little over 100 dollars for one month. At the same time, however, representatives of the Ministry of Coal have not fulfilled this norm for many years, referring to the absence of an unwritten mechanism. This position was supported by the Ministry of Finance. And in the crisis years in the government of Timoshenko, with the support of the government, a bill was drafted and adopted to enhance the prestige of mining, which clearly predicted that miners had the right to compensation and their families. This bill, I mean, was accepted for the participation of all factions at the time that were in Parliament. But at the same time, in recent times, the audit services have been blocking compensation payments, not even taking into account what is recorded in collective agreements. Hence, the authors of the bill envisaged amendments to articles 43 and 48 of the Mining Law, which provided for a clear, clear, black - font white paper, that families of miners were entitled to compensation in cases where they did not have heat or centralized heating. Let me give you an example, a mine. The city of Novogrodovka, a purely mining city in the Donetsk region. The previous mayor, Mr. Morozov, addressed the citizens, saying: “We will not centralize the city — 17,000 inhabitants. Please proceed to autonomous heating.” Today these people do not receive compensation and so many. The law provides that subsidies from the central budget will make it possible for local authorities to pay this compensation. For example, last year, the city of Rodinsk, when the centralized system was frozen, a lot of people in the 25th. At the 20th degree frost began to go into individual heating. And the authorities were pleased to see people switch to individual heating, but at the time they won't get that compensation. A very simple norm is found in this project: make changes to 43, 48 articles of the Mining Law. I can give many examples, such as the same mining city of Novogrodovka, which I have already talked about. In the past winter there was another Alcevsk. In the same town of Rodinsk, the same line of Alchevsk, which is why the gas was no longer delivered to people’s homes, the central system was defrosted, and for a long time. There was no electricity in the houses for 10 days. And they are coal miners, and their families are in that position. In addition, both miners who had previously worked, veterans and widows, wives of dead miners, have the right to compensation. I'll give you an example. In the city of Red Light, the “Miesinska” mine, which in its time built a large populace of five stories. There's been no central heating there for 15 years or so. People have put up bourgeois, people have put water heaters in place, and they burn their apartments in such a way that they get hot water. To this day, however, they do not receive compensation. So the drafters came to this question in a balanced way, thought about how it should be decided, and legally regulated on all sides, you're not going to dig any further. Here are the deputies from all factions present to vote for the obvious things, so that the miners who live in the Donetsk, Lugansk region, in the Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovograd region, Volinsk region, Lvivsky, Cherkaskie region, are ultimately entitled to receive this compensation. And also those miners who worked in the Donbas mines or those areas that I've listed, and today have moved to other areas for living, they also have the right to such compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u147	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sign up. Oh! Oh, that's right. Yes, please, five minutes, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u148	I'd like to give it to Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u149	Mr. Mikhailo, well, it's a good thing you're worried about miners, and they really need compensation and that's it. I have another question for you. You run an independent mining company, a confederation. On Monday, you conducted a mass campaign of 57 people protesting against the Labour Code. You're a member of the working group, your representative, you're in ILO, you know the positive conclusion of the code. Please tell us why you have been provoking people to support the new Labour Code, which has remained the only one in post - Soviet space since the last century. Please give me a clear article in which, as you say today, we are obliged to work under the new code of 12 hours and 48 hours a week. Call this article so that we can know clearly whether it's just a pyar campaign to reject this code, because you're comfortable living under an old code where you had a lot of rights and did nothing. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u150	And if that has anything to do with this bill. But I will answer that question, and thank you for that question. Yesterday, there were 27,000 protestors under the walls of Parliament, everyone saw that. These protesters were supported by a large number of members of the Independent Mining Association and the Confederation of Free Trades, which I lead, we protested the draft Labour Code, where you are the author. What touches the example is the 143rd article of the draft Labour Code, which provides that a working week can be increased from 40 to 48 hours and that it can be increased uncontrolledly for more than 48 hours. And in the second part, it says, if the employee is in a mode of waiting for work or is able to rest during work changes. In the 28th article of the draft Labour Code, the employer can also use technical controls, that is, video cameras, listening to devices that will be used as evidence base in the courts and also to punish the employee, and we all understand you for blackmailing. Today, at the best of times, there is no protection for people in a wealth of better legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u151	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u152	Mr. Mikhailo, would you please tell me that these compensations according to your changes to the Mining Act will only be able to obtain the miners' families, which are included in this list of persons?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u153	There's a list of professions. They are underground workers who worked underground and work as part of the list. The list also includes families of dead miners, veterans of work, deserving people, or those who work under difficult conditions that have earned such compensation and coal standards. In Germany, whether it's centrally heated or not, or whether it's individually heated by a worker, or by a furnace, every miner gets 6 tons. If he doesn't want to take that coal, he'll get compensation, that's the miner's right. We didn't have this justice in this case, and I repeat, it was restored at the end of the 1990s in this Parliament when the Mining Act was passed. But all these years, there's a riot and a struggle by the unions, by the miners, to make the law work and to get that compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u154	Please, Volinc Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u155	Mikhail Yakovlevic, it is understandable that the timing is not Soviet, the miners are no longer "Work Guard". But it is still a pleasure that we all begin to face the miners in these long years, to their problems. And here's your law, I think I've drafted a bill, too, and I think it's bigger here. Tell me, you have a category in your law, a category of citizens who work in mines that are not yet closed and in liquidation, they are not in the restructuring and kind of in associations. Because this is a big problem: many people work in these businesses, but they can't use the neighborhood of coal or the compensation you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u156	Look, if we look closely at the analysis that the Supreme Council Legal Service has done, they generally say that we don't have to adopt this bill, because these issues are sort of settled in other bills. At the same time, we see that Minfin, the government, does not implement this bill. Therefore, these issues are now settled in the Act on Improving the Prosperity of Mining Work, where we are the authors, I, Turmanov, Natala Royal and other deputies. And this issue is settled in the amendments to the Mining Work Promotion Act. We just have to make sure that this standard is implemented first. And the next thing you know, there's a representative of the Ministry of Coal, a deputy minister, they understand this whole situation, they don't want a further fight that nobody needs. The Ministry of Coal supports this bill, the judiciary clearly supports what this rule must be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u157	Have a seat, please. You will take part in the discussion. Please sign up for the discussion, from the factions of the record. Thank you. Now, who in individual order wants to participate? Many want, let's take 15 minutes. Is there any objection? Then please, Karmazin, prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, an extremely important bill is under consideration. All the time I am in mining areas, people ask: Why is the Mining Law not being enforced? I want to address this question to Victor Pavlovich Pšenzi as Attorney General of Ukraine. Victor Pavlovich, the first serious question I ask you is: Why is the Mining Law not being enforced? I realize that in Mikola Janovich Azarov, this law does not come to grips. Even though he was following legislation, he would have seen that not only the opponents of the Royal and Volinec, to whom I would like to thank from this rostrum, were offered to adopt such a law, but not at all the opposition offered it, and I would like to thank him very much, this is our colleague Landik. His bill was registered on December 16, 2009, amending article 43 of the Mining Law and article 48. What is more, it is also extremely interesting to see what needs to be done. The last time I was in Novgorodovka, where they filmed candidates from the Party of Protectors of India and only by a decision of the court reappealed they were on the list, and then again it was done not to react. That's how clearly everything happened in the election when the election was decided who to shoot. It took a decision by the Central Electoral Commission to execute the ruling of the Donetsk Region Court of Appeal and leave the people of the Party of Defenders of India. 22 percent were given to the Novogradovci, thanking them for the Party of Fatherland’s Defenders. So I promised them that I would raise questions about the implementation of the Mining Law. The same as Mr. Wolintz's proposal now, as well as the Royal one, suggests that those who have the right to free coal for domestic consumption, but live in buildings that have central or individual heating, receive compensation for the payment of electricity, central gas and individual heating of their homes, because they have earned this compensation with their lives first. And secondly, the articles that make changes are called social guarantees for mining workers who are eliminated or preserved. This is article 48 and article 43. It applied to the rights and social guarantees of mining workers. Only this law has to be enacted since January 1, 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u159	Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions, followed by Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill foresees that compensation for gas electricity and central heating will not only be paid to those workers living in central heating buildings but also to those living in individual heating houses. The main objectives of the bill are to improve legislation that puts citizens of the pension categories who live in houses with individual heating when they receive compensation for municipal services. The implementation of the project will provide a level playing field for mining workers who are entitled to free coal mining but live in homes, apartments with different types of heating to receive compensation for municipal services. It should be noted that the adoption of this law will require additional expenditure from the State budget to be taken into account in the calculation of State budget subsidies to local budgets for compensation for electricity, gas and central heating of housing provided for in the Mining Act. In conclusion, I would like to thank the authors and Volinz and Natalia Royals for being together with the President, together with the Government, along with the Party of the Regions, in most cases working together to help us solve the social problems of miners. Thank you, so keep it together, our strength! Help the President, the Government, most parliament, the Party of Regions, and you will be on the right track! Good luck! We propose the adoption of this law and the re-reading of it! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u161	Pavlovsky, please, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u162	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Andrey Pavlovski, the “Fatherland” party. I would like to point out that the proposed bill on amendments to the Mining Law by the authors of the Royal, Wolinz and the same law by the deputy from the Landik Party of Regions proposes to expand the list of persons entitled to receive compensation for the payment of electricity, gas and central heating of housing, which is being paid at the expense of subsidies from the State budget. It's an important social law that confirms the social guarantees that are in this Mining Act and in the Mining Authority Act, and it's about most miners working in Donbas in the eastern region of our country. So I'm surprised why the Party of Regions doesn't want such an important social law that reinforces the social guarantees of miners, mining families, shading disabled people. Moreover, this list of individuals does not expand significantly and only those who live in buildings that do not have central heating are granted the right to obtain coal for these household needs. What's the problem, fellow members of the Party of Regions? Do you feel sorry for those miserable coins for miners who, year after year, do not understand why they vote and do not give them social benefits and benefits? So I propose to be conscious of the Party of Regions and to support my voters, primarily miners. And I want to point out that, according to our information in that government budget that the previous reporter here told us about, that's exactly the kind of money we have for these compensations and there's no. So it's very important to adopt this law now. The only change is that it has been in effect since 1 January 2011 so that the government of Azarov will be able to include these subsidies in the state budget. So I'm asking the Party of the Regions consciously, massively and unanimously to support this important social law for miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u163	Fomin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u164	Alexander Fomin, “Blok Timoshenko – “Fatherhood”. Dear colleagues, what category of population are we talking about today? Today, 60,000 miners are affected by black lung disease. You know it's a disease, right? Don't let God know. Half of them are still working. In addition, 70,000 people have a job that allows them to develop such a disease. This is the price that miners pay for their work, for hard work, and then for blood, for 2,000 dollars a month. What happens next? People come home and charge electricity bills because the state doesn't burn their apartments, they have to put boilers. Then it turns out that 250 dollars per month, at least, they overpay for the electricity they heat up their homes. That's 3,000 dollars a year. What does this bill propose? Reimbursement for these families and, as the reporter said, for the widows of the dead miners, their families, their children in the size of just 1,000, 700 dollars a year. This sum does not even cover the expenses that the family pays for electricity. This is a small amount that will draw to the bottom of the budget, as Mikhailo Vasilovich thinks. So I'm calling on the faction of the Party of Regions, the Communists and other factions in our Parliament to support the bill. Because he is not political, he is not populist, he is socially oriented, and delaying his introduction will only make the situation of these families worse. You can't drag him out for further consideration in a few months. It's a request to support all factions, because it's about the people who survive today with a huge, huge effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Zhivago, we can hear. Not with our luck. Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u166	From the new faction “BUT - “Fatherland. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, but first I want to do so, speak from this rostrum, tell us who the author of the bill on the prestige of mining work calls names. So it's always about telling the truth. President Fedorovic Janukovic is the author of the bill today, and he was the Prime Minister of Ukraine in 2006. We then asked this question when the law was to be passed. And to pass the law -- calm down, I've listened to you, you're so passionate about miners -- why is this law, this law that we're considering today, you didn't pass last year? And we know how you accepted social standards. I don't have to tell you here. I'm talking about the truth, you don't want to hear the truth, please don't listen. That's why I'm telling you who the drafter of the bill is, and then we agree here, and the drafter of the bill stands before you today. And then my colleague goes to Volynec and everyone else. We tried to rewrite and register, as is done today. He passed the law to our colleague, today called Vladimir Ivanovich Landik. But today the same Landik law has been rewritten, so it's just a little bit different. I'm asking you another question: Does the law have to be passed? That's today, yes, that's the situation. But what I want to say is that the draft law is now in force, if we vote, it enters into force on 1 January 2010. That's the first question. Second question. I'm telling the miners to listen. We are enacting laws to enforce them. We know today that the financial year is ending. We know today what situation the coal industry is in because it has been balanced in two years. All that could be stolen, stolen, and today the industry is in a very catastrophic situation. I've got 160 million standing in front of you, you've supported, thank you, the transfer to the coal industry. Therefore, I ask everyone to support what Mikhail Vasilevich Chechetov spoke here. We can't take him today. And I want us to reunite again, that's who registered him first, our deputy Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, I don't mind having King and Mikhail Jakovlevich Volynec there. So let's not play games. I know that this law is not being implemented if we today adopt, as is not being implemented by the Mining Act, when Timoshenko was in power by Yulia Vladimirovna. So this is the truth I'm telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u168	Yuri Serbin. Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, even when we all know what we need, we play games, who has priority under this law. Everyone understands that people need help. But let's stop these games, who's first, who's second. When the author of the law, Volintz, was speaking, he did not say so. And he's being asked some provocative questions about how he's getting on strike, how he's protesting against the Tax Code. But we all protest, most people protest against the Tax Code. Well, it's different. Really, why tell a friend here to bite from the rostrum in order to pass a truly normal law? There's only one mistake. Because he's long overdue. That it has been in force since January 1, 2011. And, Mr. Chechetov, I address you. You're a smart man. How can we say that we support -- and at the same time, for the first time again? Then let's take it now. Because tomorrow you're going to accept the Tax Code anyway. And you're going to need a base to form a budget and put these into a budget. We'll just be late. So if we're really stinging, let's forget who the author is. And we're really gonna help. So the only offer is to accept it today and accept it as a whole. And certainly, change the date of entry into force as of January 1, 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, 1 minute Light, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u171	Oleg Lazko, non-factional. I think that today, in the vast majority, there is a wonderful opportunity to demonstrate our efforts to improve the lives of citizens today. That's what President Viktor Janukovic promised, that's what you promised when you went to power. I think that those tens of thousands of miners who are watching us vote today don't really care who the author of the law is. They're interested in making those coins that they're making hard money in the mine, so that they can actually use them to support their children, not to pay for the electricity they've given them. And they're counting on the support of the state. I think for the state budget it's not that big a loss, it's social justice. Justice on the side of miners. They give their lives, and unfortunately, they die to provide coal. And that's why we're saving these coins on a state-wide scale, and we're covering up for something.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u172	Volinac, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u173	Dear friends, I would like to remind you that in 2009, the wages of the miners who work underground amounted to 4 thousand and 17 dollars, which now amounts to 3,000 and 40 dollars, just for a thousand dollars this year, to pay the miners. Now here's the next one. The disabled shafts are now numbered, working in the coal industry, 175 thousand, they have the right to compensation. And now the next. I was going to say about the Labour Code. Now, an hour ago, ICEM sent a telegram in English and Russian to translate faster, in relation to the Labour Code, and asked, in such hard form, from the President, from the Speaker, from the Prime Minister not to adopt the Labour Code, not to consider it in a second reading before the Bureau of the International Labour Organization. [[International Federation of Chemicals, Energy, Mining]] That's the answer about what I said. And now the next. The drafters are Royal, Volinec, Turmanov, Cosemiakin, and took part in this development by Yuhim Zviagilski. And this was taken in 2008 in September. I don't know what Janukovic has to do with it and why he's here talking about such things. If we vote together now and President Yanukovic signs this bill, he does not make a commitment, the miners will also worship him. But to say that someone has a short memory of telling a lie doesn’t make sense. Let's do a good job for the miners. I understand my colleague that he was having a hard time talking here because there was obviously some kind of assignment here, and I know him as a man of principle, a man who worked long hours in a mine. So, your honorary colleagues, you see what happens when it's just political relevance that makes no sense, and we don't see these few hundred miners who today have the right to some kind of compensation. And what concerns miners, who have to get compensation, is much less, which is a few hundred. This could affect maybe 250,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u174	Yes, thank you. Let's vote, then I'll give the floor to the line. Yes, Your Honor, we have concluded a discussion with you on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Mining Act on compensation for municipal services. [[5294]] There is a proposal to support it in the first reading, of course, by changing the date of entry into force. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:40:33]] For-161 There's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u175	But you see factions. The factions. Yes, Party of Regions - 0, BUT - 102, Our Ukraine - 29, Communists - 26, Block of Lithuania - 0, non-fractional - 4. There's an offer for re-reading. But, dear colleagues, before I put this to a vote, I would like you and I to find out what a re-reading is. You and I are talking about, when we're rerouting the first reading, the delay, which is today, let it lie down, and then we'll go back to it. Because the Rules of Procedure Act has two rules: To further develop the legislative initiative, it is a more effective form, for then the subject is actually working on something and is trying to get the bill through. When we go back to the first reading, there's only one thing left -- unfortunately, it's just this bill. Or some of the committees, I'm not going to call, are taking the initiative. If a bill was sent for rereading, they changed the subject of the legislative initiative, and I recently met with this: it was Kabmin, the deputies had already written that it was their law, and they were already passing the law under the same number. I mean, everyone wants to. In large numbers, when we introduce a draft for re-reading, the Supreme Council must decide that the re-reading of the first reading should be further developed. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's just a date, isn't it? Okay. Okay. So, the date and the money? There's no amount of money in the law at all. Then, with such a suggestion that the drafters of the bill, a more faithful committee of profile, should be made because of the work being done. For further processing, we only introduce a profile committee when it is re-examined, if it passes, took into account the date of entry into force and gave financial justification. With such proposals, I propose that Bill 5294 be sent to the profile committee for re-reading. Please vote. Vote. [[13:43:24]] For 352 Oh, that's a decision! 352. Yeah, it's a line. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to thank the lawyers, the best lawyers from BUT, the best lawyers from Our Ukraine, including Mr. Klukkowski. [[They're not all in the room today, they're probably working together in the President's Office on the electoral code for parliamentary elections, which will be in a few years.]] I would like to thank the drafters of the bill: Natalia Kraljevska, Mikhail Volinz, for working with the Government, along with the Party of the Regions, to solve the social problems of miners. I think the more we support the President in implementing his programme, the sooner we actually, not in words, raise the standard of living of people. We're on the right track. Thank you, that's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u177	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich, I thought you'd say, the more assistants you have from BUT, the better. So you call them to that. Bill No. 2016: Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the prosecution of legal acts]] The author of the bill is Roman Mihajlovich Zvarić. Perhaps we should consider a simplified procedure? Oh, no? Then please report to Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, since we stubbornly want to turn our Parliamentary Hall into a comedy club, I will continue in this genre. I'm going to say in the preamble that for 12 years I've been a veteran of various parliamentary battalions in this room, and I just realized today that we have a magic tool that actually decides whether or not the project will be adopted. And this tool, Mr. Michael Chechetov, is not even you, it's your right hand. Because I just found this truth for myself today, perhaps all of you have long understood it, but it's magical: when Mr. Michael's right hand rises, there's a minimum of 226 votes on that board; suddenly when it drops, there's no figure. So I've come to the conclusion that I don't have to tell you, not convince you, dear colleagues. I need to convince Mr. Mikhail Chechtov's right hand. So I'm talking not even to Mr. Michael, but to his right hand, in the hope that he'll come up when this project is already being considered in our session room. What's more, Mr. Michael Chechchev's right hand, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that this project should actually be implemented, not by opposition, but by authority, which is what the project itself is about? The project is about, and I hope you'll find out, not you, Mr. Michaelo, your hand, in the correctness of my actions. The point is, I propose that the acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine are still under indictment. But they should be dealt with exclusively in one court. I propose that this facility be the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Agree, I apologize to my colleagues in opposition now, but your right hand is not as powerful as Mr. Michael's. In fact, I realize that it's not the opposition who should be making such a project. But I would ask you to think about what I'm bringing in. That's what I'm suggesting, actually. We should be systematizing the problem that exists. I mean, the fact that these acts are the subject of an accusation doesn't give me any doubt. But the fact that at the level of judicial review the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine cannot be stopped and in order to secure the appeal is no less understandable to me. Otherwise, all executive authorities would be paralyzed by the various judicial bodies of various complaints about an order issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I hope, however, that as an opposition, and in fact, by introducing a bill that would strengthen the position of power, I convinced Mr. Michael Chechchev's right hand that this project should still be supported. Ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u179	Thank you. He has the right to five minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait. I think Roman Mikhailovich convinced the right hand, but let him still convince his political forces to support this bill. Are there any questions? None. Please sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it? Chechtov, then, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, the question is, please, Chechtev asks questions. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u180	Roman Mikhailovich, well, I'm sorry. And I'm sorry I didn't call you a better lawyer, I called you Mr. Klukkowski. You're also the best lawyer, and there's a door open for you, in that legal bullet from the opposition that's working with the President to draft the Electoral Code. So, I'm sorry I didn't call you, but because. That's when you called my last name four times, and I realized that you were kind of asking me to call. I call you waiting there too, the door's open, and Mr. Klukkowski is waiting, and the legal pool is from BUTT. Support the President and work out laws with him. Work it out. With regard to today's bill, I repeat: we are having an entirely political debate today, and we are having a professional discussion, and if I see that your faction, your opposition will support you in the majority, we will vote. But I give you my word that votes will be minimally given for your bill even from your side of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u181	There you go, left. I mean, the right hand already. Yes, have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u182	Can I give you an answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u183	Yes, please have one minute to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u184	I'll give you a very short answer. You can be sure, Mr. Mikhail, that my leg will not cross the threshold of the presidential administration to legitimize your dirty deeds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u185	Oh, never say "never." Yes, please, from the Committee of Carmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please, what is the opinion of the Justice Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u186	George Carmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. The Justice Committee on March 14, 2008, and I recall that this project was introduced in 2008 on February 7, 2008, on March 14, 2008, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality in Ukraine on the Prosecution of Legal Acts, registered number 2147, which aims to regulate the order of prosecution before the administrative courts of Ukraine concerning the legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine in their conclusions to the proposed bill indicate the need for its work and make a number of observations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of the first reading, but only after taking into account the proposals made. The most important issue of the bill, according to the committee, is the incorrect combination of the two principles of administrative jurisdiction, both institutional and territorial, which will lead to the fact that acts of individual action and legal acts can be considered both by the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine and by the local district administrative court at the place where the complainant resides. This is possible because the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, decrees, orders from the President of Ukraine, orders from the Cabinet of Ministers are not always legal acts and may sometimes be legal acts of individual action. The changes that have led to the inability to review court decisions in the ASA may result in restrictions on the rights of citizens when they are charged with individual acts. In addition, the change in the territorial jurisdiction proposed by the bill on individual legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, will make it difficult for citizens to access justice. It is incomprehensible that the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine is the judicial institution of which the Supreme Council, the President or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are responsible for handling administrative cases concerning the operational inactivity of the Supreme Council, the President or the Cabinet of Ministers. Other comments and suggestions came to the bill. On the basis of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the law of the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. [[Registration number 2016]] Yuri Carmazin, report complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u187	Thank you. Would Yuri Carmazin have any questions? Thank you. Two lawyers, three thoughts. Please sign up for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u188	But you're also a lawyer. Yes, if they are individually willing to participate. Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, prepare Carpuku. He will be, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u189	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to amend articles 18, 19, 117 and 171 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, which relate to the substantive territorial jurisdiction of administrative matters, to ensure administrative action, as well as to the characteristics of the prosecution of decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine in matters relating to the prosecution of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, decrees and orders of the President of Ukraine, regulations and orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We note that the content of the draft law does not make sense what level the Supreme Administrative Court is in Ukraine, considering administrative actions or omissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the matter at its meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Dear Roman Mikhailovich! You know, I want to apologize, the very harsh criticism of Jury Anatoleevich Karmazin, the country's leading lawyer, has also spoken. I don't share, I think in your law, I value positively without politics, very much positive and professionally written. That's why I don't share this harsh criticism here. It's grammatically, professionally written. However, the committee is a collective mind, and it may be necessary to listen to the Committee's position. And the harsh criticism, such a burning, spoken out of Yuri Anatoleevich's mouth, the faction of the Party of the Regions out of respect for you, does not divide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u190	Please, Karpuk is handing over Knyazevich, please prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u191	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Here or we haven't figured something out, or we're deceiving ourselves, because in fact, the bill that is now the subject of consideration is just an attempt, let's say, to cover the gap left over after most of the months that we've already settled this issue to a greater extent. Remember when there were changes here called small judicial reform, remember, we were trying to raise the status of the High Council of Justice. What did we do? We changed the Code of Administrative Justice, where the High Council of Justice was brought before the President and the Supreme Council, and said that these three organs could be the subject of an indictment only to the Supreme Administrative Court. And this court is accordingly the first and last instance of this category of cases. But in such haste it was done that another important body, which was to be completely logical in this list, namely, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was missing. And I'm just surprised, Mikhail Vasilovich, this is your Cabinet of Ministers, and you don't want to raise his status exactly as you did in relation to the High Council of Justice. I don't understand why you prefer it to your own Cabinet of Ministers, it's not fair to the Cabinet of Ministers, abstracting who's forming this Cabinet. In view of these circumstances, let us, if you have taken a serious first major step, be consistent, once and for all, let us resolve this matter. If you don't want to do this because you're saying it's against the spirit of the Constitution, then go back. Repeal the previous ruling, all acts of the President, the Parliament and the High Council of Justice, all the way through the administrative courts. That's right, what we're interested in and wanted to do is we've already done, and what we're logically doing is we're looking at something that's absolutely the basis for not doing it. It's your right to do, but I think your Cabinet of Ministers will be offended after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we may continue for another 15 minutes to consider another bill. I continue, and now I invite Karmazin to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. I would like to say to my colleagues in the Party of the Regions that the ancients said, “The plateau is my friend, but the truth is more expensive!” And this has been said for nothing, and when you turn to your right hand, I'm not going to turn to either the left or the horse, I'm only going to common sense. And I would like to go on with Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch's opinion, who now said that the law, which was called "the non-abuse of the right to appeal," Mr. Ruslane, which led to the absurdity of the rights of a Ukrainian citizen in general. Because all 46 million citizens of Ukraine immediately lost their right under this Ukrainian Constitution to an appeal and a cascading accusation of a court decision. Thus provided for in article 129, paragraph 8, of this article, the right to appeal and cassation. The same wrong thought was directed, unfortunately, and my colleague, because it was a long time ago, he passed the law back in 2008, and it wasn't as serious as the events that happened. He did not yet think that the law could strike him. As a result, he wrote down the amendments to article 171 of the Code of Administrative Justice in the form of: “that the judicial decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine concerning the prosecution of orders of the Supreme Council of decrees and orders of the President of Ukraine, the rulings and orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have gained legal power since the declaration was made, are final and cannot be accused.” This is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. And life will show how difficult it will make life, in general, for our people. As a result, in the previous speech, the speaker argued only that the committee thought nothing of a single line, and I could not add a single word to the committee’s opinion. Now I can allow myself to say what I said and say is absolutely right to refer the proposal in this law also to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine can also be sued. Another question is that it is wrong to think that these decisions are final and cannot be accused of being the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I want to tell you that now that they're trying to get absolutely zero because of the appeals courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u194	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u195	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Because the Supreme Court wants to be null and void by handing over the right, think about it! - of a cassation charge, of a cassation of cases to the appeals courts of the districts. Thus, the people, and today the 50,000 who look forward to justice from the Supreme Court, will receive justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u196	Thank you, it's already from another "opera", it's already from another question, you're "separate" today, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill No. 2016, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the prosecution of legal acts]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:35]] For-43 Not supported. Here is the committee’s proposal to send the subject’s draft for further work. I'd like to make up my mind. And here, without suggestions, this is the subject’s right, he heard what comments were made, and he can take them into account, as set out in the Rules. [[14:03:02]] For-26 Even less. Dear colleagues, please, let's consider the reduced procedure of 2449 and conclude today's session. Please support the proposal to consider Bill 5449 as a simplified procedure. [[14:03:38]] For 210 Offer supported. Please consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises. Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich, two minutes, prepare Gorini from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u197	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the main purpose of the bill is to save the remainder of state bookstores and publishing that are still functioning, but which is threatened by privatization because of their attractive location, are usually the centers of cities. And also through those land areas that can be transformed into beautiful office centers. However, the informal problem with this bill regarding the Ukrainian bookstore seems rather tragic. Judge for yourself. First of all, the book was and remains the most effective way of conveying complex knowledge and ideas and other media, first of all, they can't compete with the book, because they give only fragmented knowledge about the world or about one or the other ideas. Second, bookkeeping is not only an impact on the world view of man, but also a big business. And in sound public policy, at the expense of the bookstore, nations receive not only educated and moral citizens but also large incomes. For example, the author of the famous Harry Potter — Joan Rowling — became Britain’s richest woman today, and the authors of this story received the greatest profits in their history. As for Ukraine, the situation seems to be this way: In 2009 only one copy of a book or brochure was published for a single citizen. In Russia, this is one copy for 5 citizens, excuse me, 5 copies for one citizen, 8 copies for the European Union. About the bookstore. In Ukraine, bookstores are four times smaller than averages in Europe. One bookstore is 90,000. For comparison, in France, one bookstore is 20,000, in Russia, one by 75,000. About the market. The Ukrainian book market is estimated at $400-420 million. But in this market, Russia, not Ukraine, gets profits by selling for 300 a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u198	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u199	Selling our market for $300-320 million a year. So we need a radical change of state policy in this area. And the first and most important step may be to amend existing legislation that prohibits the privatization of bookstores and publishing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u200	Thank you. Yes, from the Mountain Committee. Please. Economic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u201	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 29 June this year considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises to Ban the Privatization of Libraries, Bookstores and State Publications, submitted by Ukrainian People's Deputies, Kostenek and Jojik. [[low privatization]] The Committee supported the adoption of the bill on the basis of the findings of the Scientific and Expert Administration in the section of the Library Act, the library case and in the articles on publishing, amend articles 14 and 16 of the Act, respectively. And support the adoption of the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u202	Yes, thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Two for, two against. Short-term procedure. Yes, Karpuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u203	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the adoption of this law as a basis. We all remember the situation that was around the bookstores in Kiev, particularly in the bookstore “Sivo”, when the national deputies of Ukraine were forced to lose in this contradiction. This situation is in many centers and, in fact, the remainders that are related to bookstores, the publications that remain in state ownership must be preserved. And I completely agree with Yuri Ivanovich that publishing, distributing books, distributing knowledge through the book is a complex process. And this is just one of the few steps that we need a well-thought-out state policy to support the Ukrainian book. And we're going to think that this first step taken by the Supreme Council and in the rest of that, we need to form state policy and protect the Ukrainian book and the book in Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u204	Thank you. Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, and the honorable right hand of a well - known MP. I'd like you to know what's really going on in the bookstore today. This is what happens in the bookstore. For example, there is the Weselka publishing house, the Weselka children's edition. She's been working for over 70 years, she's got dozens of international diplomas. That's the situation today. In this winter, they had no heat. There was no tan, they were sitting there, they were totally frozen, like in occupied Leningrad, and they were trying to release children's books. Why? That they don't work? They're working. But for example, they are now making books on the Ukrainian Book program, six books. They didn't get any copies, they didn't get any copies, but the books have to be released, and there's no copies from the state. So the situation looks absolutely catastrophic and it's embedded in this matrix of destruction of Ukrainian language, destruction of Ukrainian culture. And for comparison. In Russia there are 6 billion rubles available to support the Russian language. In Ukraine, you know, you don't get a penny. And Russia is not using this money in Ukraine to crucify Ukraine. No, they simply develop Russian language, Russian literature. We're dumping ourselves for our own money. How? Because there's a huge circulation of Russian books coming from across the border, there's hundreds of, maybe millions, no one's counted it, dollars, bracelets, and so we're ruse ourselves, let's say, absolutely for our own money. The situation is indeed very catastrophic. And this goes into the concept of a famous minister of education who said that he said why develop Ukrainian books there or that because we don't have our Dostoyevsky, we don't have our own writers. Total ignorance! There is no Shevchenk in Russia, India. There's no place in the world like Rabbindraat Tagor. Each literature is proud of its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u206	Teeth. You don't? Is it? None. Please, one minute Javorowski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u207	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Our committee has considered this bill, it is considered very important. Perhaps we should just, Mr. Jury, perhaps we should mention the land in which there is a great temptation and in which there is a lot of temptation. And that's why I think maybe it would really be okay if we did it very quickly and quickly in the second reading. And we're going to have to bring in some more land. And what this bill needs, I'm the only thing I doubt. We've already made some decisions with you. And sadly, none of them are being fulfilled to this day. Officials don't pay any attention to it. But I think we should still adopt this bill. We need to save the Dnipro publication, the state publishing industry already mentioned here as "Vesell" and so on. That is why I am asking to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Then we work it out very quickly in the second. And it's necessary for him to take action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-17-m0.u208	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues! I would also like to support this bill in the first reading. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 5449 amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises. [[concerning the prohibition of the privatization of premises where libraries, bookstores and state publications are located]] First reading. Please be supportive. [[14:12:49]] For 278 Thank you. No, it's not. Thank you, the law has been passed. There are observations, including scientific expertise. I'm asking you to prepare, and, yes, on the first reading, we accepted it. At this, my dear colleagues, the morning meeting, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I remind you that at 3 p.m. we have parliamentary hearings on "The state of industrial safety and labour protection". I'd like to invite a colleague to a meeting. And even more important information, or no less important information, is tomorrow's 10 o'clock job. We're working on one question -- we're continuing to consider the issue that we started yesterday, the Tax Code.
