ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:02:05]] There are 375 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare the plenary session open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Jury Mikoli Volodymyrovich. Let's welcome him with a 50-year-old anniversary, a wish for creative strength and success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, just before the opening of the plenary session, I was approached by the head of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, proposing that we immediately announce a recess for the Conciliation Council of Deputies. I would like to say that the meeting of the Conciliation Board prior to the holding of extraordinary plenary meetings is not foreseen by the Rules. As for the break, if there is a need for a break to reconcile the factions' positions, please do so if the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and our Ukraine-National Self-Defense insist on this. If there is a need to consult factions, according to the Rules, we may announce a recess to reconcile the factions’ positions. With regard to the holding of the Conciliation Council, there is no provision for its holding prior to the extraordinary plenary session of the Rules. Is there a need for a break? There's a statement about a break from two factions. Dear colleagues, please sign in with the procedure. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u2	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Especially before the presidential election, it is clear that the successive meetings of the Supreme Council have finally turned into a campaign. 2008 when it was. There was a guide in Western Ukraine, then we started the practice of extracurricular sessions. But then it was strictly necessary. Now some will pretend to accept the State Budget three days before the election, while others will pretend to be able to change the Presidential Elections Act three days before the election. Of course, this position has the right to exist, but I don't think that this position is constructive, so if the national money is going to work now for the MPs, whose 50 is probably in the room, we need to now balance all the issues of the agenda to vote on both the budget and the issue of the President's Elections Act, more precisely the changes to it. Then this work and this runner in the hall will be justified. If there is no such approach, it means money to the wind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u3	Theological Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, in the Supreme Council, we need to raise the issue of an attempt to seize state authority, which is now taking place with regard to the Supreme Administrative Court in Ukraine. We know that the raiders who are present in most of their BUT factions today are trying to move the capture scenario, the raid they've been accustomed to for years in Ukraine, taking hundreds of enterprises, to the Supreme. To the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, which is the only one who can address the President's election. Today this issue is a matter of national importance, because you and I see that elections are turned into criminal trials, and the Supreme Council should speak on this issue. All the rest of the issues today, the electoral days, are becoming secondary compared to the fact that BUT is today trying to develop a scheme for the capture of government power in Ukraine, and it does this insolently. I'm asking the MPs not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u5	National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u6	Please pass it on to Cosmiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u7	The presiding officer, making a statement from two factions for a recess, would like to see how the Supreme Council is going to work today at the next session for the faction of the Party of the Regions. If this is today, then the agenda you filed, that is, the Party of the Regions, will be in operation by the end of the session on January 13. Tomorrow, the 14th, according to a statement made by the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko is a constitutional norm -- we insist that tomorrow, January 14th, one question be considered: a question that can minimize the falsification in the presidential elections. Dear Mr. Lavrinovich, I would like you to gather the faction leaders to find out these issues, and we have clearly understood that we are working today on the proposal of the Party of the Regions, the proposal “Bloody Timoshenko” is being considered tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u8	Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u9	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished people's deputies, respected TV viewers! Tens of thousands of pensioners have come out protesting the Government's absolutely illegal decision not to raise pensions and salaries in the budget area under the law. As if mocking them, your Government’s Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Timoshenko, Denisova, stated: “They made this decision. But in order to apply this decision, it is necessary to take the State budget for 2010 as well." Have a conscience! We are gathered and ready to work tomorrow and the next day. The budget should be adopted. Pensions should be raised. Earnings in the budget should also be raised. Therefore, Alexander Vladimirovich, do not split up until then. Not elections for our people, but an increase in pensions now. Stop speculating on falsifications, so-called. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u11	People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u12	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” Today's and tomorrow's session shows that the main candidates, so-called Timoshenko and Yanukovich, are beginning to turn their nerves over to the electoral front. But I would like to point out that this kind of nervousness doesn't just happen in the session room. In fact, there was a very critical fact in the history of our campaign yesterday. In Lutsk, the representatives of “Our Ukraine” were beaten at the time of the candidate's speech only for holding party flags. They were attacked by the use of physical force by representatives of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”. This is not the first time. In October, a similar attack was carried out on UN-OPA veterans just because they were publicly supporting President Yushchenk. At the end of October, there was an attack on the youth union representatives of "Our Ukraine" during their pelting of Kabmin. I want to encourage both Timoshenko and Yanukovich to remember during the election campaign that this is done for people and their emotions and that they do not allow their activists to translate them into physical force.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, from our work, we exchanged thoughts. Now, in order not to raise any questions, I want to say that today we are not having an extraordinary session, but we are having an extraordinary plenary meeting convened in accordance with the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 6 of 12 January 2010. To answer the questions raised, I will simply read out the text: “To convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. First. To call upon the request of 163 Ukrainian national deputies, members of the Party of the Regions' MPs, and 151 Ukrainian national deputies, members of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, in addition to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, which took place on 13 and 14 January 2010, starting at 10 a.m. on 13 January 2010. The other one. Consider at the extraordinary plenary meeting the questions proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the respective parliamentary factions. [[Appendices Nos. 1 and Nos. 2]] I hope that we have heard clearly that we have one plenary meeting under the authority of the Chief of the Supreme Council, and we have a schedule for this plenary meeting, which will take two days. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thus, no Conciliation Council can correct this arrangement. And according to the proposals of the two factions, there's a 30-minute break between factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our plenary session! For a statement from the factions who took the break, please give it to the national deputy, Krzemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Yulia Timoshenko faction in the Supreme Council initiated the convening of an extraordinary session on 13 and 14 January this year, with the only issue of the agenda, is the adoption of a new edition of the Elections Act, which will prevent the use of falsification in elections. It has happened that the faction of the Party of the Regions, at the same time, has initiated an extraordinary session of Parliament with proposals for consideration of its issues. There were 78 such questions, of course. This is, of course, designed to block the adoption of the Presidential Election Act. Given that Ukraine is on the electoral front, it is extremely important for the entire Ukrainian society to ensure that the electoral process is not falsified. As of today, the most critical issues that need urgent settlement are the possibility of voting at home without any documentary confirmation of the voter's inability to move on his own. I want to say that as of today, 12 percent of voters in the Donetsk region have become ill and want to vote outside the district. The other one. This is the voter list input directly on election day. To the conviction of our faction, the race that initiated the convening of the extraordinary session should not be decisive in order to give the Ukrainian society a choice of its own. We are convinced that all, without exception, political forces, including the Party of Regions, are interested in bringing the President's elections in Ukraine to a high organizational level and meeting all democratic standards. Therefore, the examination of political maturity for all the political forces represented in Parliament will be ready to support our initiative and the first issue of the agenda to consider the President's electoral bill. We suggest, Your Honor Chairman, by voting, that we determine the order of the day and the first question to put to the vote the bill on the election of the President, namely Bill No. 5509, which, by the way, has already received a positive conclusion from the profiling committee today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor, in accordance with the Rules, we have a fixed schedule of meetings for the extraordinary plenary session for the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2010 is being announced for consideration. Report to the Acting Finance Minister of Umanski Igor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u17	Good day, national MPs! Dear Chairman! I would like to mention the following from the first agenda item on the State Budget for 2010. According to the Codex about. On September 15, 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sent a draft budget for 2010 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, according to the schedule approved by the Head of the Supreme Council, the draft budget was not considered and the presentation was not carried out on the Budget Committee of September 21-23. Also, unfortunately, there was no presentation of this draft document on September 22 in the Supreme Council Hall. This document was discussed in the session hall on October 8, including a vote on the part of his rejection, and this proposal for support was not received. I would like to point out that the draft budget of 2010 was developed taking into account the budgetary reform initiated by the government and taking into account proposals and with the Association of Rural and Rural Councils, the Association of Cities was invited by the Supreme Council to agree with the introduction in Ukraine of new principles for the development of the budget system in Ukraine. The budget envisaged an increase in development expenditure and an appropriate continuation of the practice of the Stability Fund document and, as a result, the creation of an institution, a real instrument. real support for the public sector and the real economy. The document envisaged a range of social initiatives, including an increase of 19 per cent in the budget, a minimum wage of 16.5 per cent, and so on. Unfortunately, however, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support the bill in its first reading, and on 20 November 2009 it adopted an appropriate decision. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, a document has been set out, according to the Budget Code, bearing in mind that he was presented to the Supreme Council on October 20th, and the proposal to send his government was not supported, he is at the Supreme Council. In view of this, the Ministry of Finance, taking into account that the presentation of this document was carried out, the discussion of this document, including in the committees following this presentation in the Supreme Council Hall, also requests the national deputies of all factions to return to the first reading and consideration of the proposals of the budgetary committee and the budgetary conclusions that were considered on 20 November. In case of failure to support or support any other proposal, or to take them into account, the government and the Ministry of Finance are prepared to assist the budget committee in preparing this document either for a rereading or for a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u18	Sign up for the full responsibility of the minister of finance, please. Akimov's Irina Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Umansky, the story you've told is not exactly true. Because 260 votes of the deputies have sent a budget to the Government on the basis that it is anti-constitutional, illegal, because it acts contrary to the current budget code and does not take into account the adopted Social Standards Act. Don't you think the Government is just cynically using this completely unconvincing argument to achieve one: not to fund new social standards? Is that a popular approach? On the one hand, it is possible, on the other hand, to make promises on time to the electorate to increase the salaries of the budget and on the other hand not to work on the budget in order to do everything possible not to fund pensions and salaries. What's your attitude?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Akimov. I would like to point out once again that, according to the Budget Code, chapter 7-39 of an article that clearly regulates the procedure for the adoption of the State Budget Act in the first reading. The above chapter and article provide that if within five days the Supreme Council has not taken a decision to reject the State Budget Bill for the year in question, it is considered acceptable. Moreover, October 8th was put to the vote by the Supreme Council's decree to reject the bill. She had taken 208 votes for the people’s deputies, that is, the decision was not taken, which in accordance with the Budget Code meant that the budget was approved. Now this document is, of course, the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We emphasized, and I repeated this today, ready with a budget committee in line with the Budget Code to work out this document in accordance with the current legislation, the proposals made by the People’s Deputies of factions and other entities of the legislative initiative. Unfortunately, this process is in the budget committee for various reasons, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u21	Complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u22	This process has unfortunately been blocked, including the failure of the National Deputies to meet the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u23	National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin's Party of Motherland Defenders. I welcome the entire Ukrainian people with the festivals that are coming for us with a real New Year's Eve. But I would like to share with you the point of view regarding the interpretation of article 39 of the Code of Budgets, but I would like to ask you. Now there are strange events in the state. For no apparent reason, conscious of the pressure of hysteria, the dollar rises. It's the first thing that's going on in the population -- the first question. What you think and how much it is. Calm down, people. That's the first question. And the second question. What is the state of budget funding, I mean, science, education, defense, law enforcement, pension payments now, today, and what do people expect? Using your opportunity, please explain this. Because it's bothering people today, and it's very disturbing, and there's a lot of speculation going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. And, indeed, I join in greetings with the New Year, with the Christmas of Christ, and with the Old New Year, which we will all mark now on the old calendar. Regarding the currency market situation. Of course, we now have the opportunity to observe not enough trends in this part. Why is this happening? Well, first of all, it's the nervous reaction of the players who are now working on the market because of the political instability in Ukraine. There is no real economic, financial, monetary basis for changing the dollar rate for today. And the same position as the employees of the National Bank. I had the opportunity to communicate with them these days, to find out their position as well. So I strongly believe that as soon as this is over, including the National Bank's vacations and departures, the team will be fully back to work, and this situation will be stabilized and controlled. With regard to the financing of budgetary expenditure here, I might be dividing this question into two parts. Up to 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u26	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u27	By January 20, we are planning to complete a preliminary summary of the 2009 budget implementation, and if we so wish and agree to the Supreme Council, we will certainly provide complete information on the 2009 budget implementation in the session room. Regarding the budgeting process this year. In accordance with the Budget Code, the government approved the decision, and the Ministry of Finance approved the provisional schedule for the financing of public budget expenditure. This bill has been approved, led to the main funds managers, to the State Treasury, the system has been operating since September 4th of the first bank day, expenditure from the state budget is being incurred, financed in full terms according to the budget schedule that will be in place until the Supreme Council of the State Budget Act 2010 is adopted. There are no problems, failures, and lack of legislative grounds for carrying out these expenses, they are financed and the schedule will be completed in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u28	Guriev Vasil Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u29	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u30	Conovaluk Valérie Illich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear reporter, I am truly convinced that the acting minister of finance must know that most of the budget committee today is composed of representatives of the so - called coalition. And I'm interested, like the citizens of Ukraine, in the state of financing current payments and expenditures today. I'm interested in how gas was finally calculated, and there's information that comes from the gold reserves. Please tell me, how many foreign loans were made last year to actually finance the budget deficit, which is now over 80 billion dollars? What is leftovers in the treasury account for today, and why is it funded, and in what amounts, the funded program and the changes in the control of the influenza epidemic that we have approved 608 million at the expense of the National Bank? Please give these answers, which are truly for the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I would like to recall the position of the State Budget Act 2009. The total budget deficit was 89 billion dollars according to the law. In fact, you asked about external borrowing. External loans in the bracelet equivalent were made in the amount of about 43 billion dollars in the framework and in accordance with the National Budget Act of Ukraine, we did not exceed the powers given to us. Regarding the financing and implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council, the government on the flu situation, I think the first Deputy Minister of Health will provide more detailed and thorough information, which he was preparing for. [[That's the second part of the agenda.]] Regarding the financing and the balance of the Treasury account. I repeat, now the main public fund managers have completed the summation and compilation of both the annual and the fourth quarter of the implementation of the state budget. As a result, this information will be transmitted to the Ministry of Finance in more detail through the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u34	After January 20, we will be able to generalize this information and then present it to the Supreme Council in full. The transitions for December 31st amounted to nearly 2 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u35	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u36	I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Paul Zebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u37	Dear reporter, you have so much to say about the inadequacy of the work of the Supreme Council of the Budget Code, although I do not think that Minust has the right to explain, Minfin explains how the Supreme Council works. Minfin is under the control of the Supreme Council, not the Supreme Council of Minfin. In order to refer to compliance, you need to act, not according to the actions of the Supreme Council, primarily as the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the legislation of the Constitution of Ukraine. In your stated Budget Act, you have submitted a budget that violates the Constitution once. And secondly, it's not in line with the Budget Code. As you had today, how can you, by violating the Constitution, by forming a budget in violation of the Budget Code to accuse the Supreme Council of which you are under control that it has acted incorrectly in your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Of course, the government as a whole and the Ministry of Finance as an integral part of it are accountable, controlled by the Supreme Council. There is no doubt about it, and there is no need to comment on it. Regarding my criticism of the actions of the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, maybe it's just an impression, I've only found the facts, and I've noted the schedule that was approved by the Head of the Supreme Council. Regarding the inadequacy of the draft law of the Constitution and the Code of Budget. Unfortunately, this thesis is quite common in this room and deep on the air. I am deeply convinced that this national MP does not fit the reality. The draft State Budget Act, which was introduced, included provisions in the textual section on changes, changes to the Budget Code in the area of inter-budget reform. Proposals have already been developed for the implementation and implementation of these changes, including the redistribution of government and local budgets and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u40	and was accordingly proposed to distribute the authority. Therefore, this draft law is an integral document, which has a textual part, which contains a provision for amending budget legislation and additions as a financial part of this document entirely corresponds to legislation when it is adopted. Of course, the whole document and the text and the corresponding mandate of the central budget and the local budgets were to be voted on in order to implement this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u41	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u42	For the continuation of the professional discussion, I ask you once again to pass on the word to Paul Gebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u43	First of all, I'd like to say that after hearing the budget and the flu situation, we're going back to the President's Election Act and we're going to amend it. And in fact, I would like to ask you a question. Well, let it be your conscience that you have submitted the draft Budget Act in accordance with the Budget Code, so let it be your conscience. But I would like to say, wouldn't it be fair to say that, people good, we've made a commitment to the IMF quite so difficult, we can't put these difficult questions in the budget before the elections. Let us not stir up society, we are doing, we are working on the right budget law, and today this draft budget is a ping-pong that uses different political forces to activate its supporters before the elections." Because that draft of the Budget Law that you filed is inexpertible, unfair, wrong, unreasonable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u44	I think you'll be able to complete this question, you'll have that opportunity. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, what we can certainly agree with is that, unfortunately, the budgetary process, and we're already in the 10th year of January, the budget adopted, the budget process has become really political, not an economic process, and the politicization around this document is hampering the normal work not only of the budgetary system, but of the country as a whole. I certainly agree with this part of Mr. Zebrowsky’s thesis. In terms of unprofessionality, inadequacy with legislation, and so forth. Each subject of a legislative initiative, including a national MP, has his own opinion and strategies, and certainly the possibilities for implementing them through a legislative initiative. As the subject of the legislative initiative, the government took advantage of this opportunity, and on September 15, the Supreme Council presented a draft Law on State Budget to the Supreme Council. The procedure for consideration of this document, including the Committee on Budgets, provides for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u46	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u47	Dear Igor Ivanovic, two days ago in Kiev, there have been thousands of protests against pensioners, budgeters who have moved from all over Ukraine, and thousands of shares are taking place under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Pension Fund and the Attorney-General's Office. People demand that, according to the initiative of Yanukovic Viktor Fedorović, Timoshenko, the Act on the Increase of Socstrants, pay increased pensions and salaries. Yesterday she explained to Denisov, Minister of Social Policy why Timoshenko didn't pay. She says we are. They are. We do not pay because the Cabinet of Ministers did not send the budget to the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council did not adopt the budget. You'll understand, the budget you've set up doesn't match. It is not based on existing legislation; the Supreme Council rejected it. Therefore, every day you delay the consideration of the budget that you must give to the Supreme Council leads to impoverishment. I can't understand how you're playing against Timoshenko, who's going to the polls without raising wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u48	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I would like to point out once again the introduction of minimum social standards and their implementation in the budget period, in accordance with budgetary legislation, is possible through the adoption of the State Budget Act for the year in question. Your faction, like any other faction, certainly has its own proposals, its attitude to this document. I repeat, in accordance with the Budget Code, this document submitted to the Supreme Council is on the budget committee and must be prepared for the first reading. Of course, the committee will and should consider the proposals of both national deputies and factions. If your proposals are made and the budget committee supports them or does not support them, the final decision will be taken here – this document has and will be corrected. It has never been in the history of Ukraine that the draft document submitted and accepted coincide. Of course it is. the product of both the compromise of both the political and economic government and the Supreme Council. We are ready to work on this document, ready to work both in the Hall and in the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u49	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u50	Dear reporter! Tell me directly that you will not do anything before the elections and submit a draft budget law to Parliament. Will You Be? And the second question. Give an answer, and what decision is there today to fund public expenditure: on what was adopted in October or more loyal in November, did the Cabinet of Ministers adopt in early November, or did the decision to be taken, or in early January, or December 30-31? And whether or not that decision is correct. If you're acting under the November budget code you're talking about here?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Regarding the draft budget. I repeat, we have submitted it both to the government and to the Ministry of Finance on September 15, 2009. If the Supreme Council agrees and wishes, we are prepared with the Committee on Budgets to work on this document in line with the proposals made by the National Deputies. I'll remind you, there were about 1,000 300. With respect to the provisional order and the document that we are currently working on. After the ruling you mentioned, 1181, there were appeals by the people's deputies -- about 56th, if I'm not mistaken -- including a request to the Constitutional Court, were proposals by the President of Ukraine for this document. This document and its positions were also handled by ministries and departments. Taking into account those comments and those suggestions that we saw from the people's deputies, from the President, from other ministries and departments, at the last meeting of the government last year, we clarified the 1181 -- and took the utmost account of all the comments and suggestions that corresponded to the current legislation. And according to this decision, the Ministry of Finance approved it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u52	She's a blacksmith, Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u53	Dear Igor Ivanovich, don't you think it's a little strange, even absurd, that the Supreme Council's conduct could have a significant impact on the country's budget process if it had adopted, voted changes, the draft Budget Committee's decision on adoption in the first reading and the proposal on how the government should continue to work with the budget, in which direction would it correct it? Then, on the second round, the government would either take these proposals into account, or disregard, the Supreme Council would either accept or reject the budget, and even then it would be possible to talk about the development of a new budget, because now the situation is completely absurd: we are not saying how to change, but we are saying, "Let's change something." And the second question, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is to you. After considering the budget, will we consider the Presidential Election Act? If not, when will we still consider it? Don't you think that's a more important question right now? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I find it difficult and perhaps not very correct to comment on the actions of the Supreme Council. I'm the only one to point out that, in considering the Supreme Council ruling, which we have already mentioned on November 20, unfortunately, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who were present in this room, did not give me the words or even give me the opportunity to comment on the budgetary process that was continued by this decision of the Supreme Council. Of course, in order to unlock the budgetary process, to my deep conviction, the Supreme Council would have to adopt budgetary conclusions. What will be the budgetary conclusions are the decisions of the Supreme Council, they are based on the proposals of the Ukrainian people's deputies, not the government, it's your decision, it's your proposal. And once they're accepted, it allows the budget committee to continue working together with the Ministry of Finance to prepare this document for second reading, taking into account all the proposals made by the national MPs and the factions of the national MPs. Unfortunately, this process is for various reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u55	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u56	Dear Igor Ivanovich, I have two short questions for you. The first question is, how much does Ukraine have to pay for external and internal savings this year, and what is the percentage of the total budget? That's the first question. The second question. You know that the state of health in the country is very difficult in our country and is not always funded enough. In this regard, I have a question: how much, how much, how much, will the health budget be increased this year? And the second question is, unfortunately, I didn't get an answer from your ministry to the MP's question about the need to set aside the target costs for the establishment of a immunological research centre and the related question. Please, when do I get that answer? And are the funds needed for this center worth 100 million dollars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. In terms of funding, this year, both education and health care and other sectors, this should be in line with the State Budget 2010 Act. Unfortunately, there is no approved document today, so the Ministry of Finance can act solely on the basis of 46 articles of the Code of Budget and finance these expenses in proportion to one twelfth of the expenditure of the previous year if the programme was foreseen in the State Budget Act for the previous year. Of course, the proposals you've been talking about are accepted and processed, but given that now the subjects of the legislative initiative, including the government, can only be taken into account when the draft law is being drafted in the second reading, to provide an answer essentially before the second reading of the draft law. Unfortunately, we don't have the option, because this is a document, unfortunately, in this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u58	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u59	A distinguished gentleman who escapes from the duties of Minister of Finance! I mean, you're just afraid of the Supreme Council, the Committee. You kept hiding, and today you couldn't do it behind Merkowski's back because he wasn't there. You're a person who's either very moral, and you're ashamed to report a budget that doesn't have a budget, or you just don't know anything. Because in your statement, you can describe it, which you did, three words: injury, injury, and one more injury. What, you didn't have the money you took from businesses -- 28 billion VAT, 200 billion International Monetary Fund? You're still in the most holy money - the rest of the local council's budget! People were hoping, people were saving, working -- you stole money from local councils. When will you return the stolen money to the local council?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u60	Of course, such a question is best left unsaid. In the meantime, I'm going to point out that on October 8, when the document, the draft State Budget Act, was presented to the Supreme Council, I was being operated, and I could not personally be present at the presentation of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u61	Evening Volodymyr Mikolajovich. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u62	Dear reporter! Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. As you know, we did force the government to pay a pension of 572 bracelets of 40 copies, 60 copies you left for the pierra -- you don't pay. Let it be on your conscience. But I'm looking at the 2010 minimum pension, you recorded 507 dollars. According to the Law we passed on raising social standards, the minimum pension should be 695 dollars as of 1 January. I want to ask you. What's the minimum pension you're predicting in 2010? Whether it's the same disgraceful 507 dollars or you're going to pay 572 bracelets and 40 cents or you're going to enforce the law before millions of pensioners and you're going to pay a minimum pension of 69 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. The draft State Budget Act for 2010 was submitted and properly developed and processed by this date on September 15, 2009. The Social Standards Act that you mentioned was adopted much later. And, of course, the Ministry of Finance has no telepathic ability to predict what decisions will then be made by the Supreme Council. In the meantime, the budgetary process and the Budget Code provide for the possibility of taking into account changes in the legislation and proposals of the people’s deputies during the second and third reading of the State Budget Act. Therefore, the honourable people's deputies, if we go back to the budgetary process and consider this document accordingly in the second and third readings, all the proposals, including by social standards, will be taken into account according to the capacity and balance of the state budget, and I hope, supported by the people's deputies and the hall as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u64	Mosak Sergei Mikolaiovich. Upstairs Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u65	Uphill, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when budget-related issues were addressed in November, under the chairmanship of the presiding officer who presided today at our meeting, the Party of the Regions has categorically refused to consider and vote on the amendments that have been made to the Committee on Budgets. Amendments from members of the people, amendments from the President, amendments from all those entitled to the legislative initiative. This once again demonstrates that the Party of the Regions, having heard what its leader has said, has said about the ballayka and that he is already thinking of the master of the whole country, is probably the chairman of the House and Parliament. Therefore, the proposals made by the members to be put to the vote under the Rules clearly refuse to be put to the vote. So once again, I ask you to put to the vote the question of reviewing the law on change before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Perhaps the consideration that took place on 20 November really had more political subtext than considering the conclusions of the budgetary committee in fact. Regrettably, including proposals, and they came from many national MPs, including the inclusion of the Social Standards Act, it was a separate proposal from the National Deputies and it was put to the vote, and a reminder of this proposal for inclusion in the State Budget Act of the Social Standards Act was supported by this proposal by up to 8 votes. So this proposal was rejected by the Supreme Council, like most of the proposals and issues that are now being raised by the national MPs. I would like to support the proposal for a budget committee, together with the government in the Ministry of Finance, to prepare the document immediately for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u67	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I have an appeal to Mr. Lavrinovich, a request, after considering the issue of the budget and the situation with the flu, to put to the vote the issue of amending the President's Election Act. And considering that this is a proposal of two factions in acceptance, and you have no right to ignore that question, please put it to a vote after considering the issues noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u69	Conovaluk Valérie Illich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u70	Thank you. Unfortunately, the minister of finance did not answer how Ukraine had recently calculated for its natural gas consumption. Regrettably, the promises made by the government and this authority to increase pensions, social benefits, remained declarant. And when you say that 2 billion dollars you've got left over in the treasury account is transitional, when almost a third of the budget expenditure is underfunded, when you've actually called the government debt figure almost three times less than that of Ukraine last year, you know, the authority of that authority doesn't raise any questions. So I think it's probably the last conversation not only with you as acting minister of finance, but probably with the government and President Yushchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, you asked me what was the level of external borrowing, and I asked you this question clearly, external loans were made equivalent to nearly 43 billion dollars. In terms of natural gas calculations, NAC Naftogaz was estimated at $893 million on December 6. The scheduled payment was made from the accounts and by NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”. Of course, today, when it comes to the general situation with the implementation of the budget last year, I absolutely agree with you, the year was very difficult, including the filling and execution of the budget with the parameters approved by the relevant law. And this process was too difficult, and certainly the implementation and enforcement of all commitments, including internal ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u72	Complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u73	And the outside wasn't an easy thing to do. In the meantime, we avoided both external and internal deflectors. While there is no doubt that there is tension about providing income and, as a result, spending, it was and could not have been. Unfortunately, the parameters that were approved and which were not changed during this year generally did not allow for an optimistic view of the full implementation of the State Budget 2009 Act. The full report will be given, I repeat, after the summation by all budget managers, the completion of the budget process and the provision of this information to the Ministry of Finance. This report will be presented in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u74	Dear Igor Ivanovich! I have a question for you, too. You've made a few statements today that I've been taking to myself and I've been wondering if you feel your own responsibility for what we're talking about today on January 13, 2010, rather than discussing, at least, a specific document as a draft state budget for the current year. Because you've clearly realized that part three of article 113 of the Constitution tells us that the Cabinet of Ministers is governed by its decision of the Supreme Council. And you also said that the matter of the Supreme Council is what the conclusions are to be adopted. And I am sure that you have read carefully the 1741 decree of 20 November, and it says here what the Cabinet of Ministers should do, I can remind you that “to bring the project into line with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Budget Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine of 20 October 2009 on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage”. I think so, too, you know precisely the decision of the Constitutional Court that prohibits the State Budget Act from amending Ukraine's other laws. It was also one of the things that needed to be corrected. Do you realize in such a case that you are part of an organ that transgresses the law and you are also a wrongdoer? Do you feel responsible to the country for not having a draft State Budget Act now?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. There is certainly a decision by the Constitutional Court that prohibits the State Budget Act to change the tax legislation of Ukraine – the first thesis. Another thesis. Including in part and article 19 of the Constitution, which provides for the government and executive authorities to act exclusively in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The budget code provides that legislation that directly affects the income and expenditure of the state budget should be adopted by 1 July of the year preceding the budget. Regrettably, including the Social Standards Act, it was passed by a violation of budgetary legislation. As for the responsibility, including mine, that the budget process for today is actually staggered and is not moving. And now instead of looking at the document essentially, we have to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u77	We're forced to consider it more likely than anything else in the political plane. Certainly this document would be better if, including now, we considered essentially, taking into account the conclusions of the budgetary committee, taking into account the proposals made by the national deputies, which were made in accordance with legislation, which are both within the Ministry of Finance and, of course, on the Committee of Budgets. In the meantime, the Rules and Procedures that provide for this format of consideration provide that the head of the Ukrainian Committee of Budgets should report the budgetary conclusions and propose a decision. So if the Supreme Council decides to consider this document essentially taking into account the conclusions of the Committee of Budgets, taking into account the proposals of the National Deputies, we will support and provide all the organizational, human and other resources both to the Committee and to the Supreme Council for this process to take place and to be completed as soon as possible. Perhaps we, too, have not worked with both the budgetary committee and the Supreme Council in part of our explanatory work, perhaps removing some political element in this process. In the meantime, my strong belief that the budgetary process should be unlocked and the document presented in the session hall is essentially the budgetary conclusions of the Committee of Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u78	Dear Igor Ivanovich, I would like to remind you that the Budget Code contains such concepts as “the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, the Budget Committee is preparing only proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u79	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u80	And I would expect you to realize that you are obliged to comply with the Supreme Council's decision, not to give it an assessment, especially by replacing yourself with the entire Constitutional Court. Have a seat, please. Honorary colleagues, two factions -- the faction of the Party of the Region and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine -- filed an application for a recess for the purpose of a declaration. A statement. Now? The statement, please, is from two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! People's deputies! On instructions from the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party, I am forced to make a formal declaration that today, the Cabinet of Ministers of Timoshenko and Mrs. Timoshenko personally were parties to the violation of more than just constitutional rights, the Law on the Status of Deputies, and even the principles of the morality of our society. As you know, there has been a wave of multi-thousands of pensioners who have been required to pay pensions under the Minimum Pensions Act, between 150 and 300 bracelets have been owed to pensioners since this month. One of these rallies took place today under the Cabinet of Ministers. When the pensioners adopted a resolution on Timoshenko. They invited the group of pensioners to transmit the resolution with thousands of signatures, which specifically set out the requirements for the increase of minimum pensions for our hungry pensioners. It was not enough that, at that time, the vicious militants of Timoshenko had beaten women, the participants in the rally, and the police were silent, after which a group of national deputies had tried to hold several pensioners with certificates and passports to hand over their demands to Prime Minister Timoshenko, who had always claimed that power should be transparent and accessible. In our eyes, Timoshenko and his supporters almost kicked the cabinets of the State Building under one of the main slogans, "Power must communicate with people". Yeah, the pensioners weren't allowed. The meeting then mandated a group of members of the people to reach out to the Prime Minister's body and to transmit only the resolution of the rally with thousands of signatures of pensioners who were outraged by the immoral conduct of Prime Minister Timoshenko. As a result, we were unable to reach the government floor at first because the elevators had been shut down. After that, the guards, despite the fact that we've presented the people's deputies' certificates, haven't even missed us. [[In accordance with the Law on the Status of Deputies, we have the right to have unimpeded access to the buildings of the State authority, especially the right of admission]] I had to force myself through the door behind which I sat, called the Cabinet of Ministers. And it was, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, a key. At first, we were told that the Prime Minister did not exist. We said we'd stand. Then we were announced that the Prime Minister was making a report. We said we'd wait. Then they called and said, “No one will take you.” And at that point, even people tried to get out of the building, from the cabinet where government meetings were held, but the doors were blocked from that side. This is how the orange power of accessibility, transparency and the right of the people to meet with power has been realized today and clearly. I think it's an unprecedented example of assault.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u82	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u83	Please give me three minutes. Five seconds. I'm done. This was a concrete example of how the Constitution had been violated by the Timoshenko forces, how the Law on the Status of Deputies had been falsified and how people had been denied the right of access to that power. Dishonor of this power! Its power must end immediately and irreversibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we're signing up for a discussion on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010. It's a recording. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u85	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Respectful citizens and respected colleagues, what is discussed? So why have we spent an hour discussing what is not? There is a very clear wording: the draft of the State Budget Act has been finalized. Do you have that text on your hands? No, it's not. What was that just now? 30 minutes of questions and answers. It's that the propaganda field is the Supreme Council of Ukraine for each other. When neither one of them wants the budget to be. One to accuse the government of not being able to prepare the budget. Others fail to see in the official budget that these increases are not made to certain categories that have been announced during the electoral campaign. That's it. So there's a very specific and absolutely understandable situation where the budget for two key fighting forces is uninteresting and unfavourable. But there's a third position, and it's the right one, and it was expressed by the Lithuanian Block two months ago when we submitted a draft Supreme Council Order on the creation of a joint working group of the budget committee involving representatives of all factions in Parliament and the Ministry of Finance from the Cabinet of Ministers. At that time, 208 national deputies voted in favour of this decree. Yeah, one and a half wasn't enough. And now, dear fellows, I want to address you, back up smart, constructive decisions on time, because that's what the situation has come to. Because the budget process is blocked, the budget is not worked out, sooner or later, but you are still voting in favour of the draft decision presented by the Lithuanian Block two more months ago because without the joint work of Parliament, the budgetary profiling committee and the Ministry of Finance, the budgetary process will not be unlocked. So I'm not even talking to anyone, I'm just saying that smart decisions need to be maintained, and a stupid fight needs to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u86	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u87	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT, Reform and Order Party. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I have always been in the midst of the events that have taken place around this major financial document, and which this year so strangely calls on the Supreme Council because of purely political circumstances. No one doubted that the budget could be treated differently by various political forces. That's what happened. But if we all wanted this document to appear together, and we wanted it to, because part of the budget committee presented by the Yulia Timoshenko and some other political forces, apart from the Party of the Regions, regularly met to consider this document, a special commission was set up to work on the budget after it was accepted by the Supreme Council for consideration and not returned to the Cabinet of Ministers. We worked hard and worked hard for a long time and accepted thousands of amendments. They were introduced into this document and presented to this room. Purely because of political circumstances, the representatives of the Party of the Regions blocked further work on the budget, and today, by doing so, they criticize the government for not doing anything there. So I'm drawing your attention to the fact that both the government and that part of the Supreme Council, who sincerely wanted us to have this document, were acting exclusively in the framework of a budget resolution. And what we're seeing today is a special one-hand game that was organized, including the President of Ukraine, who, following the approval of the Supreme Council, is a new one. The new budget code was kept consciously until the last day, and between the first day and the last, the deadline was for the submission of the budget. What was to be done to the government when. not to submit in time – it will be wrong; it will be illegal; it will be submitted on time – on the basis on which the Supreme Council of the Budget Code was established after its adoption, then the President willfully pledge the Budget Code and raises all this rave on the whole of Ukraine about what is wrongly presented, not on that basis. But you're going to listen to those heads of the village 12 out of the thousands that all of us individually demand the same budget. So who are we working for? Are we working on political advertising, or are we working on political power or on people who work with the budget below? That's why I think today's session is solely for the purpose of running a dirty government once again to hang these posters, and whoever's in charge today, we're going to demand that the Supreme Council be cleansed of the unnecessary symbolism, from the fact that they're hanging there today offensive to the government and for the Prime Minister to cry. You play that game today, you play politics, and you don't want to take any budget, so that when you come to power, you can create your budget with the passion of the things you've planned. There will be new borders, new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u88	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich is transferring the right to speak to Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u89	Dear People's Deputies, revered Alexander Vladimirovich! From the ruling coalition, the representatives of the Government of Timoshenko show that they are either hypocritical or completely unaware of the budgetary process. The last statement is clear evidence. Do you not understand that, as of 1 January, the only 12,000 budgets that you so well earn cannot live without a budget, cannot be calculated at their capital cost, cannot carry out expenditures under the new law, your Minister Denisova said that “they” are “they”? You don't know who she is, who they are, who he is, who you all have, who made that decision. For a moment, who's Denisov to wash himself over the supreme body of the legislature, the authorities? Who are they? Is this the Supreme Council, the supreme legislative body of the country? "They." It is you who have lost your conscience in front of your people. Thus, “they have made such a decision, but in order to apply such a decision, we need to take the State Budget for 2010. ” That's your minister saying, that's not what we're saying, that's what your minister says. So where's your conscience? Where's the budget, finally? Mr. Umansky, you have been acting illegally as Minister of Finance for a year. Whatever. In what way? Oh, he's gone. He's gone. What constitution, which legislation of Ukraine states that a minister of finance may be a person of a year's duration? It is only you who allow yourself to break the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine. Let's talk about the main thing. Your Prime Minister has agreed to put the budget to a referendum. Read the Constitution carefully, budget issues are exclusively within the purview of the Supreme Council. You've already chatted in your pre-election fever, chatted and lost all responsibility to people. Let's move on. Your Prime Minister cannot lie when he claims that there has been no increase in pensions in the environment in all countries. Please refer to the examples of Russia and Belarus, and the pension was increased three times during 2009. With effect from 1 January 2010, new pensions have entered into force. The same is true in Belarus, wherever the Government permits such a catastrophic decline in the lives of the population, compensatory measures are being taken everywhere. Finally, I am not saying that without a budget, the country is not sure where.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u90	Please finish, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u91	I speak of the fact that we require you to have the budget adopted and budgeted for appropriate adaptations to the Pension Fund, in the amount that will be able to cover the increase in pensions as of 1 January. In the budgets of the areas, cities should provide for appropriate subsidies sufficient to establish a new level of remuneration for the budget area from 1 January 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u92	She's a blacksmith, Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u93	Dear friends, well, we do silly work, chase, pour empty into the void, hit our tail with those barrels, you know how whales will hit the whale, and then his barrels will drop, and he'll get angry, he'll chase, he'll chase. If we wanted to accept the budget, we could do it in the new year in whatever way we wanted, with the same voices. That's why I, well, find it hard to convince the Party of Regions, because they don't make any sense. But, Alexander Volodymyrovich, well, here's to you, as to a man who has gained his legal strength in the People's Russia of Ukraine, so it has to be logical to use. Well, can the Supreme Council order repeal the Budget Code? Well, dear friends, we took that budget into consideration, we might not have accepted it, but we accepted it. We have two options: either send it to the second reading after the first reading was when we proposed to take into account all the amendments prepared by the budget committee, or send it back to the budget committee to propose other amendments. I mean. And the Committee on Budgets made it very simple: he generalized all of our amendments, including the opposition. Among other things, it was written in white: To be rewritten on the basis of the old budget code. And that wasn't hard to do, because the difference between the old and the new codex is that the new code has more detailed information to do with it. Not only to district budgets, but also to rural budgets. [[of the village]] Going back to the districts is not easy, it's just to take and aggregate this basic economic task of aggregation, disaggregation of data. And the Social Pays and Standards Act and everything. All of this was recorded in the Codex Budget. Who prevented us from accepting this? I am addressing those who voted against it because BET and much of “Our Ukraine” voted in favour. Take it, accept it, send it to the second reading. On the second reading, if the government didn't take our proposals into account, we could take and vote against you and give the government a mandate after that to send it all away for a new consideration, that is, to develop a new budget. If we have not done so, we have, in fact, given no direction from the government as to what to do, because the order is given by decree. The adoption of the budget committee's proposals, i.e. the budget vote on the first reading, and they didn't stop the process itself, it depended. You want to go back to the budget, you want to do it today, let's look at it in the first reading, the same one that we stopped on. We're going to take the ruling proposed by the budget committee right now, and we're going to have a government in two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u94	Sulkovski Pavlov Gnatovic is referring the right to speak to Chechtev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! We have faced an unprecedented situation today, not only in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism but also in the history of world parliamentaryism, when the Government refuses to submit to Parliament, the highest legislative body, the country's main estimates. And publicly, demonstratively, with a sudden, hammocked smile. And it makes millions of people hostage and, above all, unprotected segments of the population. The Government has deliberately confused the budget process. Yes, there was a desire to extend the lobbying law to the elections related to the amending of the Budget Code. And on a mythical basis, modeling the situation that Parliament will swallow this tutu in the form of a budget code, they have already formulated a budget. But Parliament has not voted, the law has not entered into force, and on a mythical basis, a budget has been made on an air base, which is certainly not in conformity with the Constitution. In any country, a civilized country of the world, even in the Thumbou-Yumbu tribe and probably when tribal estimates are made, there are basically some common laws. We have decided that we can formulate a budget differently without any laws, since the Government likes it so much. Naturally, after the budget had been sent to the Government and the new year had come into force, the Act on the Improvement of Social Standards, which had been insisted on for four months by the Party of the Region, which had been drafted and adopted by Parliament, had entered into force. But since 1 January, there's nothing to pay. And yesterday, Mrs. Denisov announced to the whole country that, because Timoshenko did not send the budget to the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council could not accept the budget, pay pensions and pay no wages. This has sparked an uproar throughout the country, tens of thousands of people have rallyed, the Cabinet of Ministers blocked, the Attorney General's Office, the Pension Fund, people outraged, talking about how to live? How can I live? A thousand bracelets ago, that was $200, and the dollar prices, and today at 8.9,000 bracelets, that's a hundred dollars. The government has turned our pockets, and we have to feed our children, send our children to schools, buy drugs, shut down factories, one breadwinner in the family, a pensioner is unable to buy a cure, and so on. That's why we're probably gonna have to play politics, and we're asking you to make a budget and not make a hostage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u96	The People’s Deputy Moisik passes his rules to Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, please for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u97	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Now we're seeing a classic situation of absurdity when we're discussing a question that only has virtual meaning in this room, because the Prime Minister is gone, the government is not in bed, the finance minister isn't in the country at all for more than a year, the presidential candidates are in Parliament for eight in this room, except that I see only one candidate for presidents who initiated these pre-order meetings here, too. And their vision of the budget, the budgetary process, the changes to the Presidential Elections Act, which is the second urgent issue, they don't say, they're out there, they're telling people something, but they're mostly hanging noodles on their ears. Because if they wanted to solve the issue, they would be sitting here with their full-fledged factions in this room and offering us their vision of the 2010 budget process. There's no government or presidential candidates, so that's all imitation. But imitation is very valuable, because for the money of those who pay taxes, you have to show it, pay it, pay it, pay it, pay it. Presidential candidates, who are deputies, will also pay and go with nothing, zero will be the result of today's session. This means that the politics that is being demonstrated, unfortunately, by all the political forces in modern Ukraine has gone too far. Beyond this border of chaos and disorder, the complete mistrust of all politicians in any political force, unfortunately, I emphasize, without exception. This means that Ukraine needs changes not only in the budgetary process but also in the budget code, but on all the fundamental and strategic issues. Because right now, after this endless struggle of all against all of us to pretend that someone is holy and someone is totally dirty and wrong doesn't have to prove it, and people have long mistrusted the issue. Everyone has their faults, and everyone has the wrong steps behind them. Look at the social standards around which the writings are breaking. Everyone understands that there is no budget in the country, there is little money in the treasury accounts and there is no pension, and it is impossible to pay under the new law. It's not going to be possible for any government, including the current government, but along with the protests, the blockades, the measures in the administrative premises, and so on. The initiators know that these same people will not increase their pensions, but they do it anyway because they only do it for the authorities, not for the pockets of pensioners to increase a penny. And so on all matters, in all directions and for all political forces. So now, when you look at the question of social standards in a responsible way, you have to understand that first, this government continues to calculate the minimum of living, if I'm not mistaken, according to the 2008 standard, and now it's the glory of the god of 2010 and that's very bad. And the government of Yanukovich of his day has also been famous for its cross-cutting examples of ignoring social standards. An example of a reduction in the minimum wage from 237 to 205 has already become a crossover for all of Europe. So to pretend that someone has never made mistakes and that someone has always made a commitment to the electorate does not have to. In everyone, I'll say "morda in the wind," and that means that recipes need to be found together to get the country out of this situation that Parliament has created. [[I want to say one word, but I won't say it.]] So now, if there was a serious approach, a separate Debt Restructuring Act. Because as of 01.01.2010, debt on high wages and pensions began to accumulate. This means that, just as it was in the past and now in the 57th article on pay to teachers, we will have to compensate the salaries of the budgeters, not the budgeters, and the pensions of the pensioners. This means that we need to look at the full pay fund, which is unfortunately going to have to be increased by the pension fund, and we need to take very many steps that need specific legislation, not just empty talk and people's money. Yet such an approach, as proposed by the group for “For Ukraine!” is not demonstrated here. Everyone says, "Come on!" and everyone knows that there will be no "go-go-go." Pensioners are also being used to freeze on the street, knowing that they will not receive any elevated pensions from such measures. This means that the entire presidential campaign is not real either. It's all just television, just slogans and just technology. This means that all policies that have long essentially bankrupted the people will be opposed — sooner or later, in tough or soft form, but certainly will. Because it seems to me that after this presidential campaign, there should be a time, not for leaders, but for normal working politicians, who are able to do a little day-to-day work in the morning, and who are able to finally lead Ukraine through reforms, not slogans. And who will practice in front of each other, not in acting talent, but in the skills to implement those very important tasks that have long gone up in front of Ukraine, and unfortunately there are no such politicians in the current presidential race. So at the time of making an alternative, including a legislative alternative, including in this Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because there are gathered, virtually everyone who can make such decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u98	A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 34 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u99	We continue the plenary session. We continue to discuss the matter. The word is given to Oleg Ivanovich Gumenyuk. Popov Alexander Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, since the time has passed, I will begin my statement. When we meet with local government leaders and authorities today, there is one question to which there is no answer. Last year, the Prime Minister gathered thousands of rural leaders, city leaders and promised to improve the financing of local budgets. And today they say: "It is better not for her to promise, but for her to give what we should have received." It is the case that in November-December the State Treasury did not finance payments of local budgets that were included in local budgets. At the end of the year, in the Poltava region alone, such unaccounted balances with contracting and other organizations amounted to more than 34 million bracelets. These are the salaries of those who worked for the budget. Local authorities are asking the question, and how are we going to get that money back, because this case is unique and it is, otherwise, like stealing a local execution, not listed by the State in the Budget Code. Moreover, the question arises whether or not such situations will recur in the future. It is surprising that neither November nor December nor today any member of the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Head of State has spoken or commented on the situation today. How will we live with this problem in 2010? I would also like to recall that today, taxes are banned from enterprises that work in the field of external economic relations. More than 20 billion unreimbursable value added tax dollars are social payments, that is, wages to workers, that is, additional income to the local budget. How does the Ministry of Finance see a solution to this problem in 2010? How is this reflected in the draft budget? There's no solution. In addition, the amounts of loans that were taken out were named. That's 43 billion. But we know that the Government has attracted more than 200 billion bracelets, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u101	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u102	How does the Government see a way out of this situation? The 2010 budget cannot be adopted without answering such relevant questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u103	Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u104	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear voters! Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! It is understandable why the government does not budget. Because all social standards are understated in this budget, there is absolutely no position in this budget that we have voted to change the minimum wage, to change pensions, to pay social children. I want to remind you that today the government pays 752 bracelets of 40 copies of the minimum pension. We've forced the government to increase this pension, but it doesn't give, it doesn't add 60 copies specifically to make a pear company that we voted for 60 copies. Let those 60 copies be on the government's conscience. It is the criminal responsibility of the government that, starting with January of this year, according to our law, voted by the Party of Regions, Communists and the Block of Lithuania, the government should pay a minimum pension of 695 dollars. Now subtract from 695 of these. 572 bracelets come out monthly, or the government pays 120 - 150 dollars to the minimum pension. That's why I don't want to show the 2010 budget where these new pensions aren't foreseen. So, by no chance, our leader, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, said that when we came to power, which would be after January 17th, we would certainly ask the question that the minimum pension should be 1200 dollars. I want to tell a colleague from “Our Ukraine” Kirilenko, he said that since 2008 there has not been a minimum of living. Since 2000, the cost of living has not been reviewed. And it's underestimated by 30 percent. Thus, they are underestimated by 30 percent and minimum pensions. The second question. We have a minimum wage of 744 bracelets today. And it's become this way because of our Social Standards Act. But let me remind you, the poverty line is 792 bracelets in 2009 in the second quarter. So you subtract that sum, you'll see that even people working, and that millions of people don't get 100 or 200 dollars to the poverty line. How can there be a man in this country who works the morning to the evening gets nothing. And one more moment. Mothers are expected to receive an extra 557 dollars for their children under three years of age. Tymoshenko is using a surrogate that seems to be that the level of subsistence allowance that the Constitutional Court sentenced in 2007, and this level was set at 130. Again, 300 - 400 bracelets do not pay their mother a child each month. Here's your policy, that's why you don't want to make a budget, because people will see that there's nothing to protect people socially.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u105	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, it is sad that no one is interested in what they are gathered for, and no one is in the hall, nor is there a responsible minister of finance. So that's the attitude to what we're talking about. Actually, I just wanted to briefly address someone who is not in charge of the minister of finance and say: “Dear colleague, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance are accountable to the Supreme Council. If the Supreme Council has taken a decision, it must be implemented. If you don't agree, you have the opportunity to press charges, not to enforce laws, and that's not right and that's not within the Constitution. As a result, we should have received from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance a draft of the Budget Act or an indictment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Another procedure is from the wicked one.” Sad to say that the Party of Regions, which made proposals today to the agenda and recorded the Budget Act, having a shadow government, did not submit its concept to the Budget Act. In fact, in order to criticize professionally, and if someone is going after January 17th to come to power, they should compete with ideas, they should compete with predictive indicators, but you have a shadow minister of the economy, and a shadow minister of finance and many other ministers who could have calculated it, who were already in the Cabinet of Ministers. But, friends, of course, you can get retirees out, you can still do shows that unfortunately are not a show for people, but are a way of life for them today, but a key, serious discussion about budget parameters no one is having today. It is clear that this project, which, according to Minfin, depends and does not exist, will not be submitted to anyone after the President's election. We need to be clear that before the President's election, no one is going to submit a draft budget law, and this has been confirmed by the acting minister of finance. I think if the Party of Regions were in power, they wouldn't either, because the draft Budget Act or the Budget Act should be tough, because the finances are balanced, they don't have to talk about social standards if they don't reload, they don't start the economy. Unless you give a sip of fresh air to those who produce added value, from which you can raise incomes and local budgets and the average citizens of Ukraine. I think there's been another release today. Sadly, politics today prevails over common sense. The desire to gain power, and then the curve is exported out to all the candidates who are key to the presidential campaign. And the real sector of the economy, the real increase in wages, the real filling of local budgets, no one shows.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! I'm sure this psychosis will come down in a month or so, but there are healthy forces in all the factions. I am convinced that we need to know that we have nowhere to go, that our country is the only Ukraine, and we need to work for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u109	The Pavlovsky People’s Deputy hands over the right to speak to the national deputy Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u110	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The numbers just came in: 1200, 2000 and more. On the eve of the election, they only smile at those who seem to receive them. The point is that we were already millionaires, we had millions of pensions, millions of wages, but the level of inflation was so that nothing could be bought for them. So where these 1,000 200, 2,000 are taken, and so on, no one is speaking, there is simply an imposition on society of the kind of charitable activity of those who have already shown what they are capable of. I would like to personally address those who have submitted the new Labour Code and note that in article 143, part four of you, the Party of Regions, including the pro-professionals, are recommending to increase the working week to 48 hours, and then in Europe, the European Union recommends 37 hours. It's you who's offering everyone to work as hard as you can to make the money as you promise. Yes, if the workday is going to be one and a half, you might have to raise your salary. But I also have a surprise at the position of the Party of Regions when 55 national deputies were submitted to the Constitutional Court. I put in a bill to limit high pensions at least for a period of crisis. There was no support from the Party of Regions. Thus, there is a pension for deputies of over 18,000, and some categories of officials are even more, much more. So you really showed your face here when you're fighting for yourself, not for people. And so you don't have to promise 1,000 200 and so on. Let me give you another example. It shows that the budget can be large and beautiful, but it can be ripped apart. At the aviation company in Kiev and Kharkiv, the area was clear. For example, Shevchenko Oleg Stepanovich, who is not an airliner, an economist, was the general director; Cmyrenko Alexander Mihajlovich and Gorbilov Alexander Mihajlovich – both of them Donetsk – have the skills of mining engineers; Petrova Inna is an economist from Donetsk. And so they brought the plant to the pen, and they ripped it as fast as they could. I'm just two little examples. Of the 93.3 million dollars budgeted, 9.9 million dollars went through the Minibars and the Minprompolitans, 72 million were stolen. This is an act by the CIA. Harmonia listed 16.4 million, and the company itself disappeared, and the ends into the water. But there were other facts like this, dozens. So they've robbed 2 companies in a very short period of time. Why did this come out of hand? But because one of the deputy directors of this company was Mr. Medvedzko Alexander Ivanovich, who now heads the Attorney General’s Office, who also graduated from law school in Donetsk, and managed the aviation industry successfully, led her to the pen. So the coins that the government can collect today gave the factory the opportunity to get on its feet. That's real budget policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u111	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please. None. People's MP Klukkowski. None. Akima's Irina Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, it is very strange for me to sit in the hall and listen to these statements that the conversation about the budget in the Supreme Council Hall is being turned from empty to empty, that it is not necessary to do so. Logic is simple: now colleagues from the pro-government factions have made it clear that a realistic draft budget from the Government should not be expected to appear. So what's in it for you? Only one thing should happen, now the colleagues from the pro-government factions are actively trying to remove the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers for the lack of a real and necessary 2010 draft budget for the country. All the explanations why he doesn't show up, why he doesn't have to talk about it, they're evil. Because it is the duty of the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare the budget, not the opposition, but the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it has not fulfilled its duty. Therefore, it is now possible to set up additional working groups, as proposed by colleagues from the Lithuanian Block, to undertake further organizational activities, but this will not lead to anything until, I repeat, from the Cabinet of Ministers, we receive a realistic, normal budget from the Ministry of Finance. It could work with him now because the parliamentary comments were made as soon as Parliament attempted to submit a document entitled “Draft 2010”. But Kabmin failed to perform his duties. The question is: Why? The explanation, in my view, is very simple: for the ninth year, we have seen the budgetary process and its history for one purpose: to replace the dictatorship of economic laws with the dictatorship of Timoshenko. Remember, as 2009 began, the 2009 budget, which was in complete isolation from reality, had nothing to do with it. And what was the result? This was the underfunding of social programmes, the full manual management of the economy and the growth of government debt in a totally unmanaged regime. In other words, the rule of law was replaced by a government dictatorship which was intended to raise all funds but to manage them on its own. The same story continues in 2010. There is no budget, Mrs. Denisova says, “We will not meet social standards”. Although nothing prevented the Cabinet of Ministers from adopting the Pension Fund budget. And Mrs Timoshenko says, "Here's what I'm going to give you with the government's orders, and you're going to get your pensioners." She doesn't need the law, she needs the timoshenko dictatorship. We now look forward to increasing the pressure on local budgets. They can't be accepted, they'll go to the Cabinet of Ministers on their knees. What the Cabinet of Ministers will give, they will receive. It's the same business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u113	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u114	There was no VAT return or selective return, which is the same as Timoshenko wants to continue in 2010. Therefore, one conclusion: everyone who declares from this high rostrum “the budget will not waste any time on it” wants to replace the dictatorship of the law with Timoshenko. A party of regions against it, therefore, we insist that the Cabinet of Ministers introduce a realistic budget, and that will be the only basis for the development of the country's economy and the return to normal social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u115	The people's representative of Trelyaków. None. National Deputy Komar Mikola Stepanovic. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's taking the floor to the national deputy of Konovaluku. Mikola Stepanovich, please show yourself to those who. Mikola Stepanovich, please come to the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u116	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! It is very difficult and painful to say that in years of independence this first situation has been so critical in the country that Ukraine. The State has neither a budget nor an effective socio-economic policy nor an opportunity to provide State guarantees and rights to its own citizens. We see how much the country's economy has suffered today, how serious the imbalance in the social support of citizens is, that last year, in fact, the implementation of the budget is a complete analogy. Total uncontrolledness and irresponsibility, when every third article is underfunded, when the funds to be devoted to the development of territories, subsidies, housing and utilities, support for the poor, when the funds to be directed towards innovative industrial development, support for the economy in such a difficult critical period, we see that this Government has actually led the country to bankruptcy. Obviously, it's not just my assessment, it's the assessments of Western experts, the experts who say the obvious things today. Ukraine has fallen to a standard of living of 163th place, to a level of corruption of 146th place, and the level of economic freedom is almost 181th place. And that's all the achievements of orange power. This is no way for a country to live. Thus, it is not possible that the obvious things relating to the implementation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine that relate to the indexing of citizens' monetary incomes, at least at the level of inflation that we have experienced with you over the past two years, which today increase the number of citizens of the country below the poverty line to speak today of the complete irresponsibility of that authority, when the country has neither the budget nor the understanding of what to do, how to provide for anti-crisis measures and improve the lives of people, when today's banal struggle for power is solely directed to preserve and escape responsibility, such a situation does not suit us as an opposition. I could also say a lot about the Budget Code, which I and I developed in 1999 with Julius Vladimirovna Timoshenko, which actually created a normal functional system of budgetary financing. I could say that the Minister of Finance, who is in charge, does not know the basic macroeconomic parameters for this year. He does not know or understand today the situation relating to the use of budgetary resources. That every third bracelet goes into the pocket of officials, that today the level of corruption and budgetary abuse is so great that it is a matter of concern not only to us but also to the professionals of the International Monetary Fund. I am sure that this situation, which has affected the external debt rises, is that every Ukrainian already owes almost $1,000, when the country does not know how to calculate it next year, 56 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u118	56 billion we only have to pay for external debt. It is clear that this bankruptcy is the bankruptcy of all the current authorities. I am convinced that we will have enough opportunities and strength with our leader, Viktor Yanukovic, to change that. And there remains to be waited, dear voters, dear citizens of Ukraine, not long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u119	The discussion is over. Igor Ivanovich, you have to say the closing word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u120	If you'll excuse me for a moment. Thank you so much for the opportunity. I'm the only one who'd like to add to the possible conclusion is to call on the Supreme Council, the National Deputies, to a very simple thing. Unfortunately, and everyone has talked about this today, the budgetary process is too politicized, and we would very much need to look at this document in fact to consider the proposals of the people's deputies, essentially to consider the proposals of committees, factions. And that would certainly be the right decision. If that were the case, I would still like to put forward a proposal to the Committee of the Budget Government to bring this document to the session room in substance and to unlock the budgetary process. Otherwise, unfortunately, we will have to live on a provisional basis according to article 46 of the Constitution. The absence of the State budget is certainly a rather serious, problematic legislative nihilism to ensure the fulfilment of the State’s obligations. Of course, before the law is passed, we will provide the maximum amount of expenditure in accordance with the provisional budget code. In the meantime, while referring to elections, despite political divisiveness, the country should be budgeted. Thank you so much for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u121	Thank you, Igor Ivanovich, you discussed 46 articles -- this is an article on the Budget Code, not the Constitution, about the inscription. And I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council's decree is binding on the Cabinet of Ministers. We cannot entrust the committees of the Supreme Council with the preparation of the draft State Budget Act, because there is only one body that has the right to do so – the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So please follow the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in some way, I can get the country's main state fund. Dear colleagues! The question has been considered. A report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order since 5 November 2009 has been announced. The first Deputy Minister of Health, Biloval Alexander Mikolayovich, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u122	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, events of recent months have demonstrated and confirmed that the flu epidemic, respiratory viral infections in Ukraine and on a global scale, is not only a medical but also a very serious topical and social problem. There is no need to stop today from spreading flu and acute viral infections in our country, which you all know very well. The main thing is that we were also directly involved in this process. I'll just say one thing, today in Ukraine there's a decline in influenza and EMS and epidemic thresholds, which is a pleasure to celebrate today, only increased in four regions of Ukraine. This is Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, Sumska oblast and Poltavsk, as well as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I would like to give you some insight into the fact that since the outbreak of acute respiratory and influenza infections in Ukraine, 4 million, 52,000, 277 people have become ill. A total of 3 million 802 thousand 945 people were killed at the beginning of the epidemic. Today, 202,000 487 people have been hospitalized, accounting for 84.7 percent of the total number of hospitalized patients. The number of patients in the emergency wards today is 219 and the number of severe patients in the artificial ventilation of the lungs is 30. At the beginning of the epidemic, 51 thousand 835 health - care workers became ill today, of whom 4 thousand 143 were hospitalized. Some 500 health - care workers are now on fixed treatment. During the last century, 34 thousand,504 of these 17,000 399 children — 50.2 percent — received medical treatment in Ukraine. Today, at the same time, the situation in Ukraine today is not unique. Every year, influenza and acute viral infections in the country are practically contagious. covers about 94 percent of the total infectious disease, or about 18-20 percent of the population. Every year there are about eight million cases of acute viral infection in the country, and about 16 to 17,000 people per 100,000 population. I would like to point out by reference that the adenovirus viruses present in the territory today are the adenovirus viruses, as well as the various respiratory sensitizing viruses that make up between 7 and 29 percent of the world’s population today. The highest levels of influenza disease were registered in 1999 -- 1 million 672,000 cases, 270 people, or nearly 3,000, 381 people per 100,000 population. [[for Chronology]] Over the next three years, the disease declined to 246,000 in 2000, about 584,000 per 100,000 population. In 2003, there was another epidemic rise, about 1 million cases were reported -- about 2,000,258 people per 100,000 people registered in our country. In 2007, 474,000,842 flu cases, or 1013 per 100,000 population, were reported to have fallen again. And last year, in 2008, this figure was 685 people per 100,000 population. Thus, respectable national MPs, taking into account the situation in the country, the response of the government and the Ministry of Health to the situation were adequate, biased and carried out in two stages. The first stage was preepidemic. You know, as soon as April 2009 the World Health Organization announced that in some countries of Latin America, Central Europe had recorded the first cases, the Ministry of Health, the Cabinet of Ministers had taken a number of priority measures that had been responded to: the establishment of an operating headquarters, a government commission, the allocation of funds that had been earmarked for priority action to combat the problem. The second stage was the identification of infectious special beds. There were 27.5,000 of them all over Ukraine, and in total there were 67,000 who were willing to re-profile. The second step is action during the epidemic. Taking into account the previous experience of the countries of America, Europe was implemented in October months after an epidemic situation in the Ternopil region worsened, a very serious, unprecedented set of measures aimed at overcoming the epidemic and minimizing its consequences. Therefore, with the aim of responding urgently to the situation, according to the MOH Order, Ukraine has established an operational headquarters of the Ministry of Health, which has introduced authoritative deputies from a professional committee, virtually all representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Defence, and outstanding scientists, and representatives of the Academy of Medical Sciences, and the Academy of National Sciences. On the same day, the Cabinet of Ministers adopts a number of regulations and orders, including the 1147 decree, which reallocated the budgetary allocation of 500 million dollars between the budget programmes. Decree 1152 defined a set of measures to prevent the spread of A/H1N1 influenza and acute respiratory diseases among the population. By decree 1154, with the aim of stabilizing the price policy in the market for medical supplies and medical devices, the epidemic had established marginal wholesale and retail prices for medical devices and medical devices, which were severely controlled. Order 1294 of the Maintenance Service is entrusted under the Humanitarian Aid Act to ensure the immediate implementation of the necessary types of control and customs assistance to Ukraine for the spread of A/H1N1 influenza and acute respiratory diseases. The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers has also disarmed the material values of the mobilisation reserve in connection with the measures taken to prevent A/H1N1 flu. In general, 25 acts, 12 decrees and 13 orders were adopted by the government in October-December. Questions related to the approval of measures to combat and minimize the effects of the A\H1N1 flu and monitoring implementation were considered at virtually every meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and the extraordinary anti-epidemic commissions. On November 5, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a 1700 - year decree on the situation that arose in connection with the A\H1N1 influenza epidemic and the successive measures to counter its spread. Consolidated efforts by the government, the Ministry of Health, all central executive authorities, the Supreme Council’s professional committee, have been carried out and ensured in full. In general, according to your decision, the activities of the government, the central executive authorities, were mainly carried out in the following directions: The first direction was organizational action. They were geared towards consolidating and coordinating available financial, material and technical resources with a view to minimizing the impact of the epidemic. The second is the rapid additional funding of the process of providing treatment facilities and citizens with the necessary medicines, medical supplies, including personal protection and equipment. Third. International activity. Involved in solving problems with international and financial humanitarian assistance as well as experts. Four. Improving essentially professional medical procedures from prevention of all stages of illness. Honorable national deputies, according to the decree provided for by the Supreme Council, have carried out considerable and major effective work. First. These are organizational measures aimed at proper inter-agency coordination and interaction, strengthening control and implementation of measures to prevent the spread in Ukraine of pandemic flu and acute respiratory diseases associated with them, and minimizing their effects, have been activated by the work of the State and Extraordinary Anti-Epidemic Commission at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the corresponding extraordinary anti-epidemic commissions in the regions. It was the second one. The main point was rapid additional funding. An order from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated April 28, was issued to allocate 50 million dollars for the first-time measures of non-admission in Ukraine of swine flu. The Ministry of Health, along with the Ministry of Economics, approved a list of costs associated with the non - acceptance of influenza in UkraineA/N1N1. The major costs were distributed as follows: first, the purchase of drugs and materials, 23 million and 800 000; the acquisition of equipment, 26 million and 200,000 bracelets. Today the situation was almost closed, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u123	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u124	All the papers were signed, and in general we've provided what was planned with the allocation of these funds. The second issue was the use of the Reserve Fund's 500 million bracelets of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision, issued on 30.10.2009 No. 1147 on financing urgent measures aimed at preventing the spread of infectious diseases in the population, and this money was largely aimed at the acquisition of individual protection and medicines worth 265 million dollars and medical equipment worth 235 million dollars. Also today we have the result of this redistribution, the funds have been allocated to the purchase of medicines and personal protection in the amount of 234 million dollars, of which 14 million dollars have been recalculated to the Marla Reserve. The second was the production of personal protection equipment, which is marli, about 13 million and 6 tenths of dollars, the purchase of medical equipment, 170 million dollars. Thus, according to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, Decree No. 1329 of 11 November 2009 on some of the health - care workers involved in the work related to the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases among the population, 81 million and 500,000 dollars were allocated and counted to employees in the health care system in all regions of Ukraine. For the centralized purchase of medicines, personal protection equipment, medical supplies for restocking were directed at 229 million dollars, including for the purchase of medicines and personal protective equipment — 117 million and 900,000. Today, for an operational organization on the front lines and prevention of influenza treatment and acute respiratory diseases from the expenditure recorded, it was 270 million dollars, it was directed at the regions, it was distributed in the following articles: first, it was the purchase of medicines and personal protection products, where 105 million and 400,000 dollars went, the production of personal protection products, masks, 5 million bracelets, and the acquisition of medical equipment in the sum of 78 and 500,000 dollars. Medical personnel, health - care facilities in these chains in the overtime period, medical care for influenza patients, and acute respiratory diseases accounted for 81 million dollars. For today, I would like to give you that. The region has used funds worth 175 million dollars, and 22 million dollars have been spent in overtime. Today, one of the current issues was the use of 608 million dollars in subsidies, the Ukrainian Act on Change of the State Budget for the 200th year defined two budget programmes to implement measures and prevent disease and spread of A/H1N1 influenza and acute respiratory diseases. Subsidy from the local, state budget to finance the prevention of the spread and treatment of influenza was set aside in the amount of 277 million 900,000 dollars and directed to the region. Negotiations were conducted on the purchase of drugs and medical equipment and appropriate contracts were also made. At the same time, today's second aspect was the measures and prevention of the spread of A/H1N1 influenza and acute flu treatments, which the MoH provides for 330 million bracelets. They cost 135 million dollars in drugs and development costs, 191 million in equipment. Today, I would like to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u125	Alexander Mikolayovich, you have a lot more information because you're in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u126	No, I practically gave all the information, what was decided after the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Those basic aspects of the Ministry of Health, the government, have been implemented, together with the training committee, in general with the executive authorities, we have managed to implement the necessary measures that have been put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u127	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u128	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I have this question, maybe it's a little bit off the subject of conversation, because I'm well aware of the need to fight the flu, and the function of the state is to carry out its health mission. After all, it is the State’s side of the social contract when people restrict their rights, and the state guarantees certain things, including a normal health system. I have a question for another plan. Now there's a lot of information, messages about what's not in Ukraine, but at the international level, it's a very big affair with these drugs. At first it was from a bird flu, remember, now that swine flu is a great transnational affair that gives manufacturers tens of billions of dollars, even hundreds of billions of dollars. Your opinion on this is as a specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u129	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Alexanderovich, for your question. In fact, today’s media has raised many issues that highlight that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe wants to consider this issue at the next meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You know, given the situation, the course of events and how the pandemic flu developed, how they encountered it. was given a challenge throughout Europe and the world, one of the effective drugs recommended by the World Health Organization and scientists, Tamiflu. And you know, the positive and the effectiveness that in the first few hours of his life gives almost 100 percent efficiency, it also confirmed the positiveness and reality of this drug. We'll wait for these committee decisions, and then we'll analyze the situation with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u130	Gnutkevich Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u131	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I am not an avid fan of the fight against the flu through Tamiflu, but with physical therapeutic methods, so I give the floor to my colleague Mrs Soroczynski-Kyrilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u132	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! My question is one thing. How do you assess the operationality of your office of ministers by adopting cost-sharing arrangements and how? The second question. And how is it that, today, in the areas of rural medicine, the FAP, district hospitals, urban and district health and epidemiology stations are ready to detect pandemic swine flu in California's H1N1? And in your opinion, third, are you ready for a second wave of epidemic flu in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u133	Thank you, Reverend Raisa Mikolayevna, for your fundamental professional question. Indeed, today, as you have seen, the country as a whole, regardless of its political color, all prepared for this serious problem. Even in April-month, a very serious plan of action was launched. How do you know that at the regional level there were about 800 anti-epidemic regional commissions, a bed reserve was created, and the main thing is, at that time, we identified two laboratory facilities: this is the Central Sanitary Epidemic Station and the Groshevski Institute, which were provided with the necessary equipment and test systems for the first-line detection of influenzaH1N1. And that first incident that happened in the country, as you remember, in May-months, when a student from Detroit brought in, and we were practically in the early hours thanks to our professional doctors, the health-epidemic service had located this single outbreak, and that diagnosis was 100 percent confirmed even by a laboratory in London, by then we were ready to react quickly to all these things. You have seen the run itself of this serious, serious disease, as it began to develop rapidly in Western regions. You know, if it wasn't for the rapid and adequate actions of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u134	Lighter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u135	Health care has been virtually disrupted by the rapid spread chain for today, so that it does not reach the central and eastern regions quickly. In answer to your next question, I'd like to say that in this situation, not only did you see the health care services -- all the medical links, all the medicine chains, from the feldsher, the nurses, the medical facilities, you saw how our doctors have dealt with this problem in a committed, self-sustaining way, with that task. You've seen an estimate of the world's independent health experts, that they said that Ukraine's experience today: the treatment algorithm, the primary aid algorithm, the prevention algorithm -- they even took it on a European global scale today. And you know what the score was. And so today, we've provided national MPs, thanks to your support and your esteemed colleagues and the National Committees and the National Deputies, with labs as a whole -- what the government's leadership has reported, and you know that, we've repeatedly said, the appropriate PLR laboratories, immunofermental analysis. [[Polymerazine reaction]] In 15 regions we installed PLR labs and immunofermental analysis. To this day, they're all working, we've got test systems, we've got all the lab equipment we need. And we can fix today not only, as you said, the "bird" flu that we had a few years ago, but not only today the H1N1 flu that was called "pig" but in general you know that unfortunately we will have other challenges, other types of flu, and the country is ready to do that, in order to diagnose and address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u136	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u137	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, please tell us, how much has Tamiflu been purchased, what amount, and how much remains, how much has been used, and how much remains of this so-called Tamiflu? And the second question. How does the registration go, and how far does the registration of the H1N1 vaccine go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u138	Dear Paul Mikolaiovich, I would like to. Paul Ivanovich, I would like to thank you for your question. Today, really, Tamflu is the country's product. You know, we just started the problem and the first came up with the information in the funds as a whole in April -- in May months, we've already provided about 60,000 Tamiflu, which was actually distributed across all regions of Ukraine. So for today, we have 804,000. We have a full reserve to make full use of if we need it. So today the country is provided with this drug. In total, 804,000 packages of Tamflu were placed in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u139	I'd like to say about the vaccine, as you know, today we have three vaccines in Ukraine, the first one is a Canadian vaccine, the second one is from France, and the third one is a Russian vaccine. Yesterday was the complete end of the cycle, the complete course of clinical, clinical and Russian production tests of Monogripul, which we talked about. And I think in a few days it's going to be a proper order from the health minister, and that's going to be the conclusion of the registration of the first of these vaccines. As you know, our joint position in Ukraine with you regarding vaccination in Ukraine. You know, we held together, and our only idea was that even a vaccine should have been tested, that all the clinical, preclinical trials were transferred into our tap, and only then can we use this vaccine with you. So for today, I think we're approaching this process. You know, there's been a decision by the head of state health care, which was signed by me, that we have a voluntary vaccination. Today, we have defined risk groups and, in general, every citizen who wants to be vaccinated will be granted such a right. But after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u140	Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u141	Vladimir Filenko, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, in your report, you have observed a terrible level of disease in the Donetsk region. As we know, 11 percent of the citizens in this area are suddenly and permanently ill. In view of this issue, what is their illness there, and what does the Ministry of Health do for their quick recovery?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u142	Thank you for asking. You know, we're not only interested in the Donetsk region, we're interested in the whole country, our citizens, our citizens. We are very serious and scrupulous in dealing with these questions. Doctors are very responsible for their responsibilities. And in general, as soon as the first symptoms are identified in our patients, they react quickly to all these things. And so we're going to count on our doctors' professionalism to be so effective that our citizens will quickly get out of the hospital and get to work and have a normal healthy lifestyle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u143	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u144	Dear Alexander Mikhailovich, in your report you have named so many figures that I have been unable to understand which ones you are. and what article did you report, that is, the use of funds. And really. In fact, you can't understand that from your report. To an extreme extent, I was unable to understand how much money was spent and how the article was used. In this regard, I have two questions. The first question is, you said that out of the money that the Supreme Council made, 265 million dollars were used to buy, as it were, individual remedies. Please tell me how many of these are, and if there are any of them in the Ministry today. In the ministry today to provide for this year or to prevent other waves, so to speak, diseases. That's the first question. And the second question is, have all the funds that were allocated by the Supreme Council been used last year? If not used, by what article, and by what article, and by what means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u145	Thank you, Gregory Yudkomovich, for your question. I wanted to give you a thorough assessment of the use of finance in my report. As you know, I've stopped at three basic criteria. First, the 50 million we talked about, they're 100% used, they've completely gone through their funding and the provision of contractual all those expenses. And in general, all the equipment and drugs that were written in those contracts are put in place. So that was, it was 500 million, which I told you about. They were distributed as follows: The first 229 million 600,000 were allocated to our State Budget, and the Ministry of Health was recalculated as a vaccine. Of these, I've already told you that it went to the purchase of medicines 111. 117 million 900,000, listed as a stock of 14.3 million gauze, purchase of medical equipment 95 million 400,000. And there was a second part of the money. has been recalculated, 270 million 400,000, sent to the region. They were allocated in the following way that the purchase of medicines that he mentioned and the protection of the individual had cost 105 million 400,000 dollars. [[It's a mask, a respirator.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u146	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u147	105 million. And for medical personnel, it's 81 million 500 thousand. And the purchase of medical equipment is 78 thousand 500. 78 million 500 thousand dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u148	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. The report from the committee is Konovaluk Valerius Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u149	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Perhaps there is no more serious resonance issue today, which concerns not only the health situation of our citizens but what happened during the flu epidemic, how the Supreme Council reacted not only but also how the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, acted. I'm trying to bring to you today all this information that will confirm that everything has been built on outright lies, hypocrisy, on the complete misunderstanding of what is really happening in the country and on how much this affects the lives of ordinary citizens. Regrettably, today's active coalition has ignored such an important issue that it has tried to raise during an extraordinary session when it has demanded the financing of additional measures to avoid this epidemic in order to protect, in the words of the coalition, citizens. I'd like to quote from the transcript of Deputy Zvaric's speech. Sadly, he is also not present today that he has suggested that we take a deep look at the value of one person’s life. That the national MPs who have shown themselves to be bad, who refuse to participate and talk about how budget money is being used, that previous funding has not been used for the measures envisaged. You and I have approved this ruling on November 5th. I want to say that we've carefully analyzed it, and I can honestly say that the 21 points of this regulation and the 5 points that we've actually recommended to the Ministry of Health are only a third done, not in full measure. And the Cabinet report was due on December 18th. So I want to bring it all up to you in a row, the situation that happened, the epidemic, has actually revealed everything. that critical situation in the medical field, in the health care of Ukraine, and what has affected the lives of our people. It is sad to note that under timely and quality preparation for a serious test, a country could also lose much less both human and financial losses. Think about it! In 11 weeks, our country lost 940 citizens, including children, pregnant women, young workers, and health workers. More than 4 million people were infected with influenza and acute respiratory infections. Hospitalized and provided medical care to over 240,000 of our citizens. So what I want to say is that compared to the corresponding 2008 period, the increase in this influenza epidemic was 170 times higher in October than in the corresponding period. Our committee is convinced that the main causes of such large scales are, firstly, the underestimation by the government of the seriousness of this global threat and the neglect of warnings, both by international organizations and by the Health Committee. We have repeatedly addressed Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. Here's June 17th, where we tried to bring to the government the threat that really arose in Ukraine. We demanded specific urgent action. We didn't even get that reference, and let's say, this is the basic answer. I am convinced that by the time the situation began to develop in the worst case scenario, and people were killed daily, no one had even asked which seasonal flu virus or the same pandemic that the World Health Organization had warned about in advance was impressive to our people. While our closest neighbors in the Russian Federation have already registered more than two thousand laboratory confirmed flu cases and only at the end of October, when the epidemic covered all of Western Ukraine, the Ministry of Health for the first time took samples of biological material and began the necessary research. The second reason is the failure of the government to comply with its own regulations and regulations aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of H1N1 influenza among the population and so forth. I am convinced that the situation could have changed if we had actually witnessed it in the disgraceful state of the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, today, Minister Knjazevich, whom you posted, is absent, has actually withdrawn from the fight against this epidemic by transferring him to his deputies. And in 2.5 years, when he headed the ministry, it's actually a ministry that's now led by the number of abuses and corruption. I can only give you a few examples. On August 5, the government orders to purchase government guarantees, nearly half a billion euros, for appropriate medical equipment. Since the first tranche of 100 million euros, only one 20 - year - old position has been involved in the fight against the makeup epidemic. The government purchased a device for artificial ventilation of the lungs, which costs 22,000 euros. At an exhibition in Dossildorf in November, we actually went to this manufacturer, and it costs 12,000 euros. So 10,000 euros was the kind of money that someone actually put in their pocket. In fact, Ukraine alone lost 150 million dollars in this equipment, and how much money is needed in general to really help people when it comes to human life. So I want to tell you one thing, it's not only a level of corruption, but it's actually a critical level of moral collapse. I am convinced that we will not only be able to find out why the 608 million that we asked you to finance at the end of the year to fight the epidemic further are actually funded by only 200. And the finance minister says that 2 billion were transitional surpluses for the next financial year. Because there's no money in the state, because this turmoil, and the economic collapse, your adventurous policies have led to such consequences, to total bankruptcy. And to conclude, I would like to remind you once again that the words of Julia Timoshenko, who, after speaking here from this rostrum for all media outlets, spoke “today the Supreme Council disarmed me as the prime minister of the struggle to prepare Ukraine for the next wave of the epidemic every life from this moment forward, and before God, and before men is on the conscience of every MP who has not pressed the button.” You and I have approved the decision to give 608 million of which the government has only used 200 -- that's all. That is the truth that becomes clear today that opens people’s eyes. Yet, I am trying to reach not only the national MPs, but also the Ukrainian citizens, so that you can understand what cynicism is. We have prepared for you, by the way, a pharmacy for the Prime Minister, so that during the epidemic some anti-fungal drugs would actually go up 40 to 100 percent: “Antigrin”, traveled “Arbidol”, “Tamiflu”. Tamiflu – a drug that is not even in the pharmacy, Tamiflu, which will be useful, use, 48 hours after a person feels bad when the temperature rises. In fact, you have made an apricot unattainable today in order to buy a pensioner’s half - price, and now two and a half bracelets. So what I'm saying is, I want to say to your faction, mostly the B.U.T., who was actually trying to get us into another adventure, that this adventure is already worth 940 dead people in Ukraine today. And I'm convinced that this authority is hopelessly ill, and we're going to hand over this pharmacy to you to see that the vast majority of citizens, the types of the population, are unable to buy these drugs that are simply not in pharmacies. That's why I'm finishing up and I want to say one thing to you, ladies and gentlemen, that will be the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u150	Let's sign up for the question, please. Let's sign up for the question, please. School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u151	Thank you. I have just an offer to the Headman, two more hours to get the reporter to give him some water, some good-for-nothing exhilarating medicine, because excitement can take minutes. Because I think that, first of all, there should be a rule I understand that we don't care about the laws of the Supreme Council lately and the regulations, there should be just some human conscience. If it's written for five minutes, why do some of the pharmacists go on for so long? There's a minimum rule to be made. To say that I want to remind you that no pharmaceuticals will help you, because you did not vote for the government to have the opportunity to provide every Ukrainian with all the anti-fungal means. It's the Party of Regions, and they're the ones responsible for every death. And here you will not be helped by a pianist with an apricot or a pierre with an apricot, or a pierre with white socks, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u152	Well, unfortunately, I never heard the question. Although I can tell you, statistics are also on your conscience that in the Lviv region, about 266,000 people have an influenza epidemic. These 266,000 people you have constantly deceived and misled. And I would like to point out that these are the machines that the Government, for example, has purchased for budgetary purposes. It's also an artificial breathing apparatus, light ventilation, called. It's worth 3,000 euros in retail. He was purchased for 110,000 gross bracelets, 150 of them. But the thing is, it's for domestic use and it's bought for Ukrainian hospitals. Because the level of cynicism, the hypocrisy actually exceeds all norms. And you're trying to make money on people's grief today. And who has pharmacies, and who today has a system for monitoring the use of budget funds, we understand. So if we've secured funding and you haven't used it to combat the epidemic, it's primarily on the conscience of the Government and the Prime Minister. I think it would be right for us to say that, for example,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the question to the chairman asked by Andriy Vasilovich School, I can tell you that as the main reporter, the prime minister's first deputy had seven minutes in addition, because the information was important and no one, I see in the hall, denied that he would give this information, and the committee's co-report, if there were two minutes, I don't think it would be worth protesting to hear that information that was an alternative to what we heard. Please ask me a question, Filenko Volodymyr Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u154	Vladimir Filenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Party “Reforms and Orders”. Alexander Valentinovich, do not tell us your impressions, but follow the Rules. If you think you need to add a report, you have to ask the permission of the hall, and we will either grant it, or we won't, because it feels like New Year's Eve was hard for you, you're sitting there in the lobby napping and you're not even watching how much time. And now, essentially, the question. Sir, Valérie, why don't you tell me who usually owns the pharmacies where the prices are raised, and they belong largely to the representatives of your political power. Now tell us how your political power — a party of regions that has full authority in the Donetsk region — has led 11 percent of the citizens there to become severely ill before the elections. What are you, what is your political power doing specifically in the Donetsk region to combat the epidemic?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u155	It is very unpleasant to listen to the true information, the specific facts, the state in which you brought the country and our people today, but here's the statistics of January 12. In the Donetsk region, only 363,000 people contracted influenza, such as in Dnepropetrovsk 330,000. Practically the same number, given that the number of population in the Donetsk region is twice as high. That's the first one. Who owns Optima Farm, I think they know not only the people's deputies, but also the journalists, the Ukrainian citizens, and that in the deliberate panic of the epidemic you have actually contributed to the pharmaceutical mafia, which has earned enormous funds and has, I'm sure, shared with you in the election budget of your choice. But it's another thing. This is a decision that the government made for half a billion euros is 7 billion dollars of greven, and I'll read you the last paragraph, that's nonsense at all. “This purchase takes place under the procedure of purchasing one participant without agreement with the Ministry of Economics.” Thus, the Austrian company Wamed had no tenders at the prices, when I said that only 150 million bracelets had been lost in the purchase of artificial ventilation devices. And you know, because of the absence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u156	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'd like to lower the tone of the speech and understand that you're not now speaking as an agitator of the Party of Regions, the agitators now, there's a lot of them in the hall today, about 50 people everything, all the agitators who signed up, they're not in the hall. There are people here who are working pragmaticly on legislation. So I have a request to speak only after the decision of the committee, according to the government report, to fight the flu for which, for example, I would like to thank the government, because it also applied to my family, I would like to thank the government, and I would like to know if the government was able to protect and we were able to protect the health workers who were the most vulnerable -- first. And the second. What was the decision of the committee and why today we were not given what the document gave.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u158	You know there's no need to agitate. Because, fortunately, they felt it all on themselves. They're in pharmacies every day, and they see that these antifungal drugs aren't there at all. In fact, during the epidemic, they grew to the point that both pensioners and unprotected population groups could not buy them at all. It's a different matter. The fact is, we are constantly being subjected to brutal lies. You failed to ask your own minister, who you have delegated to the health care government, who, by the way, has never been to a meeting of the Health Committee in two and a half years. In fact, he removed himself during this epidemic by transferring him to a deputy who works in the Ministry for four months at all. You don't care because in this report that I prepared this letter to Timoshenko in September after my signature, I worked in the summer when you were resting, including you, Mr. Carmazin, this report in 2008 on the entire complex corruption system in the Ministry of Health, how you spend the budget money that companies, whose representatives, how they wash away. How do drug pharmaceuticals come into the Ukrainian market?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u159	Valérie Illich, please complete in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u160	That's why the question is. I corrected this analysis and this report note, but I haven't received an answer since September 10, 2008. What are we talking about? The point is that today we are telling the truth that you do not want to hear. We're saying that Ukraine is losing and the second wave epidemic is, but today there's no resuscitation equipment, there's not enough medicine, there's no way to protect the lives of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u161	Thank you, Valery Illich. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u162	Honorable National Deputies, Alexander Volodymyrovich and the Ukrainian people who need to know how many people are here today. We were now 37, then 41, then 53. That's how much we have 53-55 on all the factions. So this agenda that's made out of 76 questions today is purely propaganda. I was convinced that they were not prepared completely. And right now we've seen a pattern of non-preparation of the question when we're not given materials, when we don't know what decision the committee made when there's a complete individual. When we were in the south, there was a flu epidemic in the east, and we were told it was a political flu. And then he saw this and he did what he did that was that the schools were closed in mass: 300 in Donetsk, 200, and then everyone in Odessa and so on. So I'd like to say thank you to the medics that they're doing everything they can in these circumstances. I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, and in the end, look what was done in that Ministry of Health over the years and put a dot. To that end, we have law enforcement agencies. What questions? No questions asked. That's the first one. And the second. Alexander Volodymyrovich, it's very easy to make the presiding officer order here. You are given a written chart every day. We're setting ourselves up, MPs. In addition to what 400 cards are here right now, please announce those people who are not in the room, and let the command block their cards. And don't laugh at the Ukrainian people anymore. I propose this, and Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, not to tell that the MPs are unruly, but to make once a normal act, to say, to block the cards of those people who have not been registered in writing and to announce these names from the rostrum. What epidemic of what flu has mutilated them, and the flu of irresponsibility has affected the epidemic, the flu of unconsciousness, the flu of populism, and the flu of an unloving nation? They haven't returned from the mountains of the Alps yet, and they mean they're here now. So, Your Honor, the question is not ready, let's work it out, but let's not make people laugh in an empty room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u163	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I remind you that we are considering the question of the Cabinet of Ministers report and the report prepared, in writing, given to the Ukrainian National Deputies in advance. So talking about non-preparation is wrong. As far as the rest of the questions are concerned, they are included in the schedule of meetings in December, and according to each question, there are all the necessary documents. So please, when you make a statement, rely on the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u164	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u165	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished deputies, distinguished voters, I would like to answer the question raised by the representative of the BUT on why there are many patients in the Donetsk region. I'm going to answer: it's only about one thing, because somehow Yulia Timoshenko just hates Donbass. During her first visit, she surrounded Donbass with a barbed wire, believing that only criminals lived in the Donetsk region without seeing millions of honest workers living there: metalsmiths, miners, coxochemicals, teachers, medics, and others. And now they're just underfunded. Besides, it's not an option. There is no law on the promotion of social standards, no higher pension and wages are paid to enable the purchase of medicines. People come to the pharmacy, people come to the store, and they say, "We go to museums, we can't buy drugs, we can't buy food." Naturally plus an environmental situation in paradise. Once again, the Government does not address issues. Environmental management in the Donetsk Basin and above. But I have another question. During the epidemic, the Government has shown its complete inability to combat the epidemic. You'll think about it! Not that the medical equipment, not that the drugs, had no gauze binders. They received the gauze that has been on since the Great Homeland War. Thank the heroic Soviet people for leaving us this gauze. They started sewing by hand. But I have a question with someone else. The other one's still worried. Indeed, at the public meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, in early December, Yulia Timoshenko publicly accused the Minister of Health and the Ministry of the embezzlement of hundreds of millions of bracelets that were to go to the purchase of medicines and were actually embezzled. I have a question then. The first Deputy Minister spoke here. If this was a lie, and today is indeed a lie and a lie brought by Yulia Timoshenko into the ranks of public policy, then he was publicly told by the highest public court that it was a lie, that Timoshenko had lied, she had lied to the Ministry of Health. It wasn't like that. And if that's true, then you had to tell me how much money was wasted, where the money went, how much it came back. Because we don't have the moral right to spend the money on Minhvod today if we don't know for sure that this money won't come back to a particular person and will not be used to use drugs, to buy equipment. Well, the last cynicism of power. What drugs, what medical equipment, if last year, only 12 million of the 150 million bracelets were used for medical equipment and not even a penny was put in the budget last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u166	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u167	Please, I pass the word to Soroczynski-Kyrilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I am addressing you with what Minister of Health Alexander Mikolayovich has clearly and specifically reported to you today on the situation that the government has been fighting since October 30 in the country for a certain purpose. We have approved and used funds for an epidemic of endemic flu in our country, as the threshold has been exceeded. And in 70 countries of the world, the flu virus, “pig”, “California”, H1N1 spoke of a pandemic in the world. And for the first time in 18 years -- and I'm the chief physician who's been helping people every year during the flu epidemic -- I want to tell you, all of the citizens of the country: the first active, clear, concrete and timely aid was given to the rural population. And those presidential candidates who today, knowing the square area of Ukraine -- 60,000 square meters -- say that rural medicine will not be, that fapas and district hospitals will be closed, that yesterday at the Vinicki Medal Academy, that the department of aid to rural populations, and this is this transport, this is the rapid aid that is being delivered to the country today, and these are the equipment that, in 18 years, you know, never did the political power of the Uliya Volodymyrna bloc run the Ministry of Health, and never did any of us lead the committee. The breakdown and breakdown of the medical field in our country is not cynical, but clearly and specifically depends on the political power of yours, Valery Ilchi, yours, Valery Ilchi. You have the greatest political power, and how many medical personnel have been on your list, with med school? Yesterday I was asked: How many doctors in Parliament? And I said there were only five on the committee. And seven. I would like to ask you a question: What and what are the benefits of a government committee for health?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u169	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u170	Thank you for the report, I thank you for realizing that the people of the country are ready for our citizens to be protected from the second and subsequent flu epidemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, we continue our plenary session for 15 minutes to complete our consideration of this matter. Smudge Grigory Evdzimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u172	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, of course I'm not a medic like you. The previous MP spoke and said, of course, that Ukraine, and on this subject, the previous one, should be discussing this work professionally in our Hall. But as a national deputy, I am approached by Ukrainian citizens during the electoral process when I meet Ukrainian citizens. I get to know periodically what we're talking about on the Internet, and I find this surprising or very interesting, I think you all know, facts that, of course, can't help but worry every Ukrainian citizen, including me. Well, first of all, from the report of the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, I personally, I repeat, did not understand how much money was being spent and what it was directed at. What is the amount of medicine and drugs that have been bought for today to prevent the spread of the next stage of the epidemic that the WHO, by the way, scares us all. By the way, as far as WHO is concerned, you know that in the European Union right now there's a big scandal about this vaccination. And in both a word of mouth and a word of mouth, he is accused of having, so to speak, experienced this problem, which has forced governments in different countries to buy a lot of drugs. But this question will be considered, I think we will all be witnesses. The second question, you know, during the purchase of the necessary equipment, which unfortunately we don't have in the hospitals, especially in the district hospitals, is a very interesting fact that today is being studied by the media, in the first place, on the Internet, that some of our devices are being released and some devices that aren't being released were purchased by one, so to say, the supplier at a very high price -- 3, 4, 5, and some of them were added 10 times. Of course, I'm not saying it's the guilty prime minister of the country, but I certainly blame it on the Ministry, which is subordinated to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because it cannot be used without control in an epidemic state when the country is present, the state funds, which unfortunately are completely. We don't have enough for health care, do we? And these costs cannot be used at such prices, buying equipment that does not always meet the necessary or modern health requirements today. Well, for example, there's, you know, a device that artificial ventilation of the lungs does. Yeah? You know that there are domestic manufacturers in Ukraine who produce the same equipment. Yutas, which is in Kiev. It provides certified equipment in 20 countries around the world. Why, then, did the Ministry of Ukraine not support this time, buy these devices from a domestic manufacturer? Although this device is supplied by a domestic manufacturer to the external market, it is available in the developed countries for 7,000 euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u173	Please finish, only in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u174	Thank you. And they bought this device for 22,000 euros. Of course, someone has made great profits in this regard and has taken an unfair course on the mountains of the population and those in need of immediate medical attention. So I believe that these questions, which sound, are accused of using the funds not by destination or at higher prices, should do so, the Supreme Council should instruct the Ukrainian Attorney's Office to check on the line of purchase, one purchase of the supplier of these devices. And if facts are revealed and the facts are revealed, in the same way that the price is higher, it is appropriate to react according to the Criminal Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u175	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Alexander Popov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the first conclusion I think we must make, and it is unlikely that anyone will agree to it, it is indeed a great thanks to all the doctors of our country who, in spite of the actions of the Government and the situation that has arisen, have done their utmost to treat the people of Ukraine through their professionalism. We know that some of them had health problems, some of them had died. But they were doing their duty. And for that, thank them so much. The next conclusion we must draw is that, as in many other matters, our Government cannot work systematically. We were not ready to meet and prevent the crisis that came to our country. We weren't ready to meet the winter that came to our country. We still do not have the opportunity to clean roads in a timely manner, to solve urban upgrading problems, because the system does not work. And that's true. And if today any official says that in November and December the country was ready to accept and counteract the flu epidemics, I think they simply did not speak to the Ukrainian people. We have not been prepared for this situation at all. Today, of course, it has changed. But it seems to me that when we talk positively about the actions of the Government at the outset, we are talking about another country and another government. But I would like to emphasize another interesting thing. I have a certificate in my hands right now that I can get a machine for artificial ventilation, which is what production, which is Austrian. This certificate is issued in Poltava today as follows. Here comes the head of the BUT party, a member of the election staff Timoshenko to the chief, and he says you're going to vote for him, says Janukovic, well, I'm sorry, then I just showed you. Then he goes to another headmaster and he says I'll be behind Timoshenko, then take that certificate. I have a question for the Ministry, please tell me what kind of money it is and what kind of new form it is, for know-how to issue certificates for future products that will be purchased and received in our country for budget money. And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u177	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u178	Can politics be put into such a situation? Okay, she would have done it herself, but not the leaders of political parties, specifically BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u179	Samofal Gennady Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u180	Respectable colleagues! For a long time, I tried to understand why I had not been admitted to the Health Committee twice at the Yulia Timoshenko session. Finally, I understood the reason why I was working there, and I saw so many miracles, and speaking Russian, the savages that the outsider, not medically related, is hard to understand. What do I mean? First, seven times, the Minister of Health was invited to a meeting of the Committee. This is not the faction of the regions that invited him, it was invited by all political forces. You see, this is such a disregard for the status of deputies that I've never met in four calls. Second, a miracle, I'm meeting voters in Herson, and they ask me, "Tell me, Ukrainian People's Deputy, do we have free medicine or not?" I'm saying, according to the Constitution, it's free. “Then please answer why I gave the urine analysis, and I have to pay for it.” Well, there was the head of the clinic, I say, answer please, he says, "Friends of the people's MP, and what am I supposed to do, I don't have government funding today. I have to either cut the doctors down or cut their pay off what I have to do.” I meet voters, a woman, a mother of two, a worker, out of 7,000 people working there, and they travel to Kiev and the White Church for profits. “Tell me, fellow MP, what can I do, how can I live, two children, since October due on salary, is miserable, I can’t buy bread today, not to mention medicines to fight the flu.” These are the miracles, and why this is happening. I'll tell you what I just saw. First. The Committee reported that Ukrainian citizens now acquire drugs six times more expensive than in Europe. But I'm sorry, there's an average salary of 2,000 euros in Europe, and we're with you. Why? Yeah, because the committee was talking about only five firms working in the drug market, honey. equipment and they do what they want. In January, Minhrav is being conducted through its structure by the solicitation of drugs, I don't call drugs, Ukraine is purchasing 117 griven, Moldova is buying the same batch, the same producer, 10 griven, and Romania 6. This was published by our Victor Petrovich Korge, a faction of the Regions, in Ukrainian Truth in March. There's no reaction, so that's it. Second, we're talking to you today, today we're talking about fighting the N1N1 flu. Well, first of all, you know that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will now consider this issue at its meeting, that there are very many issues related to hooks. I think we'll find out. What happened to us in Ukraine? So, frontal records every day from TV screens, so who's dead and so on. Yeah, it could be a big deal. But to do that, we have Minhrav, professionals who have a duty to predict everything and to respond professionally. In April, the Committee of the Supreme Council on matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u181	Thank you. Please finish one phrase. Because we don't fit in. Next, Korj Pavlov Petrovich. Huh?Oh, my God! You're handing over? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u182	He's making a decision on what to do to Minhvy to prevent the flu pandemic from happening in Ukraine. Five months had passed, and the same ruling had not been done by Minhvod in October, only amounts were added. [[30 October]] Here's what you and I have decided: 50 million to give immediately to the establishment of the Influenza Center. They created the Influenza Center. In April the month immediately, urgently solves problems and everything else. In September, we're three people, so we're coming to this Influenza Center, this is the Influenza Institute, this beautiful building, this community is good, they're telling us what we need to do when our building, our territory, our specialists, give us money, we'll do your labs and we've done a great job. Okay. Please show the premises of the Influenza Center. They've been searching for keys for 10 minutes, opening a room 50 square feet, sorry, everything's upside down, at night, probably rats running. Okay. Where's the director? No principal, he's in the DMV. Why? At the International Symposium. Okay. Would you please show the office of the Director of the Centre? No, we haven't. It's been five months. Headbum? Nope. And where did the money go for 50 million? Here we are, the committee's asking the Government. Minhvos, there's no answer. Here my colleague from the rostrum said that 30 million have been spent and 20 have stolen no misdeeds today. [[literal]] I'll bring you a picture with the same Tamiflu today. On the committee just before the new year after the meeting, did Alexander Nikolayevich say that 800,000 -- I say right, bought Tamiflu? - used to date around 18 will probably be used by April, well, about 200,000. And 600,000 years in April of the month will have to be destroyed. Tell me, 240 million, well, where did the people's money go? Where's Minhrav today? Where is the Government that is obliged to control these things today? A laboratory for drug quality control is being established. Last year, 28 million for the creation of 55 million this year is estimated at 111 million. We hear Mr. Padalko came to the committee six times. I'm looking at documents, so it's a conditional change in the license to supply drugs to 150,000. I ask, "Please tell me, what are your costs?" How much do we have? We have to send specialists to Jordan -- travel, travel, travel, there, hotels and everything. And I'm saying, what are they going to do there? And they're going to check the drug production technology. Who's gonna let who in there? It's an honor to read that if Germany delivers 10 years, we have a firm, the drugs are good, your problem is to look at the quality and end it and so on, and so on and so forth. You and I have made decisions three days before the new year, 608 million to fight the flu. I was just talking to Tatiana Dmitrievn Bachte's committee chairman today, what happened? There is no provision in the Act of 277 million to be given to the regions, nor has it received a penny. Once again, Aleksandr Nikolayevich reported that everything had been decided by Minhvod. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u183	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u184	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Today, the charges are against both the government and the Ministry, and no one is mentioned. I'd like to ask, who doesn't have comparative statistics on influenza in the past, in the past and in the present year? And when you look at it, you'll realize that this hysteria has purely political coloring, and it's designed specifically for today to flush out the dirt of those who have actually encountered a very severe epidemic, but it's practically every year been, but it's not been noticed, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it' it's been, it's been, it' it's been, it' it's been, it' it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it' it's been, you know, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, you know, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been, it've been, it've been, you know, you know, it've been, you know, it've been, it've been, you know, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, it've been, This should be taken care of. Whoever tore up the antivaccinal company, who was here, the head of the committee shouted that the boy had died, yes, it was a tragedy for the family, it was bad, but the hysteria around the vaccination was made on this side of the Party of Regions to prevent Ukraine from preparing, including for this epidemic. Let's take a look around and see who did it. As the funds were allocated, you do not remember how they were allocated, and for a month and a half, the cost of the epidemic went by, not a penny to Minchur or to the regions, and then to the New Year, when all of this was supported by the completion of the budget funding last year, and now you ask why it was not used. And how to use that money for the two days you've given it away. I'd like to take a look at the pharmacy system, but only Julia Timoshenko, the Prime Minister, has broken the question of building a government drug network, because today many of the owners who are sitting here are showing us the pharmacies where expensive drugs are. So what I'm saying is that the government network of pharmacies that really needs to be replicated is the idea of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, and it will already be implemented by President Timoshenko of Yulia. I would like to draw attention to how a representative of the budget committee, that I looked at a strange document from the Party of Regions, in particular, from individual activists, a project was submitted to the budget for the allocation of 5 billion dollars, incomprehensiblely, for the purchase of medical equipment, for which, and for whom, and for whom, it did not go through the Ministry, it was not an initiative of the government, namely 5 billion to then confirm, perhaps the budget would have been adopted. So I'd like to pay attention, dear friends, we're not talking professionally, we're not analyzing information that's there, we're trying to blame each other for something. The situation is that health problems in Ukraine have not been resolved for years or decades. And this discussion today will not help us to draw any closer to its solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u185	The discussion is over. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, there is a need, you have a final word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u186	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I would like to thank you, honourable national deputies, honourable chairman, for the assessment of the Ministry of Health, of the government that we have made with our joint efforts to overcome the flu epidemic in Ukraine. You know, that's really a positive assessment. There's a medical evaluation. But I would like to refer to some of the national deputies, to the members of the professional committee, and to Samofalov, and to others that we are in the person of the first deputies each week, to the representatives of the health minister, we are in the meetings of the professional committee, and we report to them every week on the financing of the Ministry of Health, and on the conduct of state programs, and on those measures. So we have to make an adequate real assessment. She's very transparent today. You know that there was a check by the law enforcement agencies of the Ministry of Health and they gave a practically positive assessment of what was clearly and clearly used. To date, the Ministry of Health, you know, is clearly in line with the profile committee. We have practically shared how we have a fully joint program worked out. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank you all in the vast majority of the national MPs, without looking at their political power and party, for your support and understanding that today, indeed, is a very serious problem. Indeed, only by uniting together will we overcome it, and the people look forward to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u187	Thank you. Conovaluk Valerius Ilchih's closing word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u188	First of all, we really want to thank all the medical workers who, by the way, took care of their health, lived 15 hours, by the way, helped citizens, treated people. They have not received the payments promised by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, they are today, indeed, witnesses and hostages of the health situation, because in what state of the hospital today, where the pharmacy is in what state of health of our Ukrainians today. This decision, which predicted the use of 608 million, which were not funded by the government when the National Bank, by the way, counted this money, applied to half the sum to be sent to the places in the region. Actually, there's no money. The government has done everything to actually leave a portion of the money to pay pensions, social benefits at the beginning of this year. For you, dear citizens, there's an answer to why you're now getting a pension, why you're not raising social standards. And you know, the strange thing is, when, in a cynical way, on November 25, a government decision created a coordination council on health reform, by the way, only two deputies from the BUT faction entered. Two years later, it was recalled that health care needs to be reformed, and today all these things need to be affected. So I'll tell you one thing in the end: it's no accident that the origin of the swine flu in California is where your political thinker and business partner Lazarenko is nine years old, that the minister of health has actually turned into a private doctor of the Yushchen family who are not, by the way, at work. That, in fact, Yushchenko herself will likely restore her own health in California and build a children’s hospital for the future. I am convinced that today every Ukrainian family feels all the benefits and consequences of your activity and your responsibility. And our role as opposition today is to tell you and the people of Ukraine that the primary priority for Viktor Yanukovich is to reform health and improve the health and life of people in Ukraine. I am convinced of this and this brutal lie that you have spoken today, may it remain on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-13-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I want to remind you that according to the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the work on the committees is now envisaged. We will continue the next plenary meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 209 of the Ukrainian Land Code. A break is announced by 10 a.m. on January 14th. Good luck.
