ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:24]] They registered in the 396 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions, the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" are a 30-minute recess. [[B in m in s a l in]] A break of 30 minutes is announced. This is when we complete the schedule of issues that are set for today, and then we will finish the work. Break until 16 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u2	At the request of two factions, a 30 - minute break was announced, and factions held consultations. The results of the consultations will be informed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Sobolev, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, for us today is a fundamental one question, and in what way it will be resolved, it is the will in the final version of both this sessional room and the majority that should be formed under the resolution of this matter. We believe that there are several bills without resolving the issue of voting on the bill, and we are ready to support the bills that have been tabled either by members of today's coalition or at least back our bill that regulates the immediate question of the temporary moratorium, I stress, the moratorium on tariffs is directly communal and at prices for gas. We demand that this issue be put to the vote again, because without a solution to this question it is impossible to solve the key question: how will our fellow citizens face this incredible price rise directly. The second option that we announced on the Conciliation Council, it's also, I'm sure, would have set up an absolute majority in the session hall, especially, it would have provided, I'm convinced, and most of our citizens would have the right under the Constitution to stop the decision of the NCRE was delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What the representatives of the faction of the Regions have claimed is that this is not the competence of the Supreme Council, we offer a way out of this situation, so that this right is delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers has decided on the basis of a gas price raise, and this would directly enable us to get out of that crisis situation when it becomes clear that the non-payments for gas and then for municipal payments will actually reach 50 percent. That is why we would insist that this be put to the vote in this order. The corresponding draft of the decree will now be handed out, and we've prepared it. And while we vote on the draft law, there is a possible solution to this issue in the draft regulation. So we insist that the tariffs on utility bills and gas prices be resolved today, because tomorrow will be late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's try to organize our work in this way: if an appropriate draft decision is introduced and registered to relieve the tension, I will put it to the vote as well. There is no draft decision yet. There's no need to wait until you offer. Hence, respectable colleagues, as appropriate. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, according to the schedule, dear colleagues, once again, please let's make this happen: you propose a draft ruling, you register it in the proper order, I'll put it to the vote. He'll be ready today -- I'll put it to the vote tomorrow -- I'll put it to the vote tomorrow. And now, dear colleagues, according to Tuesday's schedule for September 7th, we were to consider with you the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads]] What is it, fellow believers? To harmonize the terms of positions of heads and deputies of local councils. But in view of the fact that the committee did not meet and the committee did not take a decision, I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone consideration of the matter. With the commission of the committee to hold meetings and to express its position on this matter. And now, my fellow dignitaries, I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (for the creation of councils) (registration numbers: 7069, 7069-1, 7069-2). Rapporteurs of the National Deputies of Ukraine Anatoly Matvienko, Alexander Czervolenko and Valerius Pisarenko Coroner is head of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Michael Traiduk. The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. I'm putting it on, I'm putting it on the vote for. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[16:37:12]] For 237 Decision taken. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u5	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Dear colleagues, I understand that any question can be considered at some political angle, but I would like to at least politicize the situation in this matter of order of the day. What Is Predicted by My Law? The first thing I used was that the city of Kiev is not different, and the community of Kiev is no different from any community of cities in our Ukraine, namely: in Kiev it is not allowed to solve the issue of administrative division, formation or non-circular formation and, respectively, district councils. It seems to me that this is a violation, and therefore one of the norms that I have adopted in this bill is to give the right to Kyivradi or, accordingly, to the community, through a referendum, to decide the issue of its own administrative system, its formation or its failure to form areas. The other one. By politicizing all our relationships, we make the situation in Kiev unconcerned. I can't imagine how we're going to choose, for example, a council this year, and in two years we're going to pick a city council and a city head. It will be a cacophony that will outnumber the riots that exist in Kiev today. So I don't hide my second initiative and introduce into a special law a norm that provides for an opportunity before the election to solve the problem of forming or not forming district councils in Kiev. And the last thing I'd like to say is that no practice of the world even in SND territory is as long as our practice of the Soviet era. So it seems to me that we should move on in the world's experience and give the community the right to decide for ourselves about the organization of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u6	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u7	I'm finishing up, just one more thesis. And I'd like to reassure everyone who says it's unkind, because neither in Lviv, nor in Odessa, nor in Kharkiv, nor in other big cities, people don't go today, and they don't ask for advice, it's over 300 million annual expenses, first. Second, it's not leadership, it's abuse, which at the local level is essential. And thirdly, I'd like to ask voters that we're not making the conditions of service worse. Since the areas are preserved, there are administrations that provide services, that is, we do not separate services from people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u8	Thank you. Black Willy Alexander, please. Please give our colleague the opportunity to go to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, he's a reporter, a reporter, what are you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u9	Dear friends, first of all, I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are my inadmissibility decrees, both of these laws and of Matthew, and of Pisarenko, of inadmissibility. I'd like to say the same for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, if the law is not upheld, it will be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u11	Yes, yes, yes, there are inadmissibility decrees, so you have to give it time. Secondly, I'd like to say by my own law. Both the law of Matthew and the law of Pisarenko destroys self - government in Kiev, contrary to the European Charter on Local Self - Rule. And language is not just about eliminating the local councils they offer. Even if Kyivrada does not gather, both Matthew and Pisarenko will be eliminated in Kiev within two weeks. It means district councils. Auto, according to this law. The other one. A united office, now under the Capital Law, is appointed president of the city administration. Now this head is cleaning up. Instead, it says that the President can appoint anyone to head the city administration. So Kiev also eliminates self - government at the level of the Kiev City Council. Because the executive authority in Kiev will be administered by the city administration, which is headed by a man appointed by the President, not by the elected city head. Not the city's head, but any man. And this council will be accountable and accountable to the city of Kiev. And this administration will not be accountable to the Kyiv City Council. Now for a brief discussion of the essence of my bill. I suggest that the Kyiv City Council not determine whether or not there will be district councils, but that the Chinese determine this in a referendum to be held six months before the elections. And if no decision is taken to dissolve councils, the councils remain. And the next referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u12	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u13	Finish it. Of course, if such a decision is taken by the Chinese in the referendum, then the district councils are accountable and accountable to the Kyiv City Council. Even the Committee of Local Self - Government and Government Administration, which is fully controlled by the Party of Regions, accepted this standard and recommended that other laws be incorporated. But that's not enough. Obviously, my law has no such nonsense as eliminating the position that the city head of Kiev is appointed the head of the administration. Obviously, in my bill, there remains an old position that the Kiev City Council delegates its powers to its executive, executive body, the Kiev City State Administration. And it's obvious that there is a position, if the Chinese have spoken for either the dissolution, or the liquidation, or the establishment of district councils, the Kyiv City Council, in accordance with the Referendum Act, can deny this position by two thirds of the votes and the next confirmation in the referendum. So this position is fully delegated to areas in Kiev to the Kyiv city community, as it should be in any city with district divisions in Ukraine. And as for this attempt that is currently taking place, it is an attempt to eliminate self-government, eliminate democracy in Ukraine, and it will lead to Ukraine being completely isolated from democratic countries, and we will have the status of North Korea and other countries with totalitarian regimes in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u14	Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to add the trailers to the bills that are being put forward, and maybe describe the bill that I'm going to now propose to you to accept as a basis. First of all, we must understand that today you and I do not decide to eliminate the district councils in Kiev. Today, you and I are deciding only to return Kiev to the powers that all cities of Ukraine today have. We had one city in which the territorial community was limited in its powers. Today, this authority is coming back to the law that I hope you and I will approve in this session room today. If you speak a simple language, you have to understand that in Kiev today, except for the Kiev City Council, where we have 120 deputies, there are 627 other deputies of the district level who are also dealing with Kiev today. This could be compared to, if the Supreme Council has 450 deputies working for the whole state, there are more than 700 deputies in Kiev today, and they all have budget expenditures on them, today the Chinese are paying for these deputies to do their own business. I heard a very good phrase on the committee today from one of the members of the committee when it was discussed that 600 deputies in Kiev were 1,000 200 lakhs who are now trading all the necessary things. So today, you and I are making decisions about the dissolution of Kiev from bureaucracy, about the dispersion of Kiev from those people who, instead of working on the kyans, are doing their own business and business. I think this will be the first way to improve the governance system of the capital of Ukraine. And I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, today to consider a question in this bill, which was registered by me and my colleague Philippenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u16	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u17	In our bill, we only settle one question about the return of powers to form or not to create a paradise. And that's why it doesn't actually need a second reading there. I propose to accept it not only as a foundation but also as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now we need to hear the committee's decision. Trajduk Mikola Fedorovich. Mikola Fedorovich! Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The drafts that we just heard from the authors were the subject of a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on September 7, 2010. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev, the territorial community of Kiev and the Kyiv City Council are not entitled to decide on the issue of the formation, not the formation of district councils in the city. While under the Law on Local Self - Rule, such a right exists in other cities. The bill proposes to improve the existing legal status of local self - rule in Kiev by granting the territorial community of Kiev and the Kiev City Council the right to decide whether or not to form district councils and to establish a procedure for making such a decision. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, proposes a bill of registration number 7069 to be adopted on the basis of appropriate adjustment in part of the findings and proposals found. The proposals for the adoption of the bill were based on the support of nine of the 11 members of the committee present. When working on the bill for the second reading of the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee consider it appropriate to supplement it with the following: “The districts in Kiev are the public administrations under the responsibility and control of the Kyiv City Council.” As far as I'm With regard to Bill 7069 of the People's Deputies of Seminog and Crnvoluntary, the bill was not supported by members of the committee. The vote on Bill 7069-2, introduced by People’s Deputies Pisarenko and Philippenk, supported six members of the committee from 11 present on the basis. Supporting the idea of drafters, taking into account the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and considering that the introduction bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u20	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u21	supported most of the Committee's membership, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, in the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 7069]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. It's a recording. For and against. Dear colleagues, the speech is given by Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Then Blackwolf will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u23	Dear colleagues! Today, we are not considering the elimination of district councils in Kiev. Today, we are considering the question of equalization in the rights of the Lviv City Council, which, by exercising its right, destroyed the district councils 15 years ago as the legacy of the Soviet system and the Kiev Council. You know, in the mid-'60s, America was divided into white and black. The blacks had been violated in rights, but Martin Luther King had raised America to rights and 40 years ago no one could have thought that a representative of the colourful population would have been able to become president. And today, Barack Obama has been elected! America has reaffirmed its democracy. Today, we have found that Lviv is a white, Lviv Council, and the Kiev Council is black. The Lviv Council had the right to eliminate district councils, and Kiev — no, this is a lack of equality — we will not build a normal Ukraine. It is therefore proposed that the Kiev Council, the Lviv Council, the Kharkiv Council, the Zaporozhye Council in part and organization, education and the elimination of the District Councils be brought to rights today. And if the Kiev Council deems it appropriate, on the basis of savings, that scarce resources should be placed on social issues, to support the least disadvantaged, and not to produce officials, it would act under existing legislation. Therefore, once again, I am focusing on the main issue; we are not addressing the issue of the elimination of the District Councils today. Today, we are dealing with a more serious issue: the equalization in the rights of the Lviv Council, which has eliminated the district councils and Kiev, which has no opportunity to do so. I propose to support Pisarenko's law both on first reading and in general, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u24	Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u25	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Unfortunately, dear friends, today you are dealing with the issue of the liquidation of district councils in Kiev. Because if, within two weeks of the adoption of this law, I quote both what is written in Pisarenko and what is written in Matvienko, only I don't have it with Seminoga. So in this case it turns out that the article of this law that you have written, Mr. Chechetov, automatically enters, read the laws that you're adamant will not automatically exist in the city of Kiev. So Kyivrady should not even get together, and then the district councils in Kiev will be automatically eliminated. And there's no need for neighborhoods without district councils. And the second big lie that we just heard here, the district councils don't pull a penny out of the budget, because they have three cripples, and the whole thing is district government. That's how administrations stay and get stronger. And finally, about what no one wants to talk about right now: the Chinese choose to choose a leader of the executive branch of power, because the Kiev City Head, according to this law, will not be the head of the city administration, that is, the Chinese will not choose a city head, which will automatically become the head of the administration, as now. And the city of Kiev will be ruled by random people appointed by the President and, in fact, the city administration of Kiev will be the Ministry of Capital Affairs in matters of state executive power. Only that she will be more subordinate to the President than the Cabinet of Ministers. And so this law completely eliminates, completely eliminates self-government in Kiev. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, once this law is passed, the President will be inconclusive and your accounts abroad will be closed and you will not be able to either.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u26	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u27	Dear compatriots, I would like to say that this law is a direct effort by the ruling party, the Party of the Regions, because they have no chance of obtaining a worthy result in Kiev, well, there is no confidence in the Chinese Party of the Regions. So it is better not to make an election or acknowledge this fact that district councils should be eliminated and that elections should not be properly held. But I don't think we can do that right now. We're disposing of the constitutional right of choice. And in fact, we're limiting China to self-government, which we can't do in any way. And we need to uphold the law of the Blacksmith-Seminoga, and the law is so discriminatory about the Chinese, I count, none. which Pisarenko gave me, I count, can't be supported in any way. Moreover, I say this as the original cyanide that was born grew in this city. I think it's an insult to the Chinese, and I want to go to the Chinese to see who's depriving them of their right to choose. And no one has the right to do that. It's a right given to the Chinese. If the Chinese decide for themselves, they really need to make a change, as Czarvolenka suggests, and in a referendum, this is a question in the general public that needs to be addressed. Otherwise it won't be democratic in any way. I want to ask you, we are the representatives of the Party of Regions saying that there are no district councils in other cities. So why are you leaving the city of Donetsk district councils, I wanted to ask you, and you're dispossessing of the right to choose your representative from every microregion, from every street there must be a representative representing the interests of this small but Chinese community. You can't do that. And it's only because the Party of Regions can't win the election in Kiev, get the trust and respect of the Chinese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, now. No, all the performances have already taken place. Mr. Blackwolf has made draft decrees to reject the two bills. Please base your position. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u29	Dear friends, I have filed an objection, a rejection of the law of Matthew and a rejection of the law of Pisarenko and a corresponding Pilatenka. So I would ask, not two minutes, but four minutes to express my point of view. I'd like you all to take a look at the expert conclusion of the board of experts on these two laws. It says everything I said. The fact that it is totally unacceptable to eliminate district councils, according to which if Kyivrad does not meet within two weeks, district councils in Kiev and district deputies are automatically eliminated after the adoption of this law. So this is a completely anti-democracy situation. So I would still like to invite you in any vote in this room to make a decision only on the first reading. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to point out that we should not now put this law in the first reading and in general. We have every right to say whether my law will be passed or whether my opponents who eliminate self-governance in Kiev -- let's take it up on the first reading, and for the second reading in two weeks, we'll work and make some adjustments. You can have an accelerated procedure, even though I'm against it. And once again, I want to say that it is totally unacceptable to pick a city's head in Kiev and not give it any authority, the more so that today's city head is elected, we just take the authority of an active city, this law, and it's unacceptable. I would still like you to listen to the expert's point of view, I would like you to listen to the thought expressed in the Charter of Local Self-Government, because sanctions will not be against the city of Kiev, not against us with you, but against the whole of Ukraine. We're going to be a state-of-the-art.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u30	Please turn on Alexandra Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u31	Let me finish. You know, we're setting up the whole state to not hold district councils in Kiev, so that someone in the title of acting instead of Chernewsky will become the head of the administration. Popov is running the city anyway, why should we violate all the notions of self - government? For many years now, it will be possible not to hold elections in Kiev, but Popov. The other one. There'll be areas, there won't be, long ago Chernewsky took all the authority from them. Why violate existing legislation? Why do we have to break the rules and not allow ourselves to be spoken to the community? You want to eliminate areas in the city, give it to the community, let them say, people in the referendum, vote in favour, but they won't. And so it must not only be in the city of Kiev. If in Lviv or in Kharkiv, or in the council, it's bad, then by referendum locals have to determine whether they need these people in the area or not? And once again, no amount of district councils take away, or let's say very small ones. And 99 percent are administrations, and no amount of economics is going to get rid of the council. And there can be no governing bodies in the area of structural units, in the area of areas or cities, or in areas that are not controlled by local councils, that's why they have to be. Because we're going to have district administrations turn into big jacks, where the devil's foot is going to break and no one's going to control anything, and even the city council of Kiev is not going to have. Although it has to be said that when the committee suggested that they should be subject to the city council, it is my offer if the Chinese speak against these districts, against the district councils. So once again I want to read the second reading, and in general it is desirable to reject the laws of Matthew and Pisarenko — Philippeenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. The proposal sounded, on the one hand, taking into account the soundness and relevance of these issues, and putting them on the ground and in general, there were objections. That is why I appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for judgment. I'm voting on the proposal that we take decisions today on this issue on all the bills, coming out of the time of their registration, on the basis and in general. If this Supreme Council proposal is accepted, then we will vote. I make this proposal for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[17:02:56]] For 247 Offer accepted. I'm betting on a draft bill by Anatoly Matvienka, registration number 7069. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, to be adopted as a basis and as a law as a whole. Please be sure. [[17:03:35]] For 1 The decision is not taken. The second is the draft law, registration number 7069-1, the authors of the national MPs Seminoga and Crnvolenko, which is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a law of this project. [[17:04:15]] For-63 I'm voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, registration number 7069-2. Please vote. [[17:04:48]] For 245 The law is passed, thank you. Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is requesting that the draft law on amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the right to take certain measures on the introduction of economic activity or on the basis of a declaration in accordance with the material and technical basis of the requirements of legislation. Is there no objection to delaying the consideration of this bill? Let's put it down. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending article 32 of the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services. [[dealing with issues of exchange and storage of information in the framework of international cooperation in the regulation of financial services markets]] The rapporteur is Head of the State Commission on Financial Services Markets, Vasil Alexanderovich Volga, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko. Please, the head of the State Commission's financial services market regulation microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Law on Financial Services and Government Regulation of Financial Services provides for the possibility of exchange of information on terms of interaction between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and international organisations, public authorities and non-governmental organizations of foreign countries, matters of supervision of financial markets and institutions. On March 12, 2009, a request was officially filed for the signing of a multilateral Memorandum of Understanding and Communication with the International Insurance Authorities. Since June 25, 2009, this memorandum has entered into force. On September 1, 2010, the parties that signed it were nine countries: Australia, Bermuda, Taiwan, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Romania and Mexico. Ukraine's application is currently under review. He also makes an effort to sign bilateral agreements with other regulators. Internal procedures are under way to agree bilateral agreements with Austria, Spain, the Russian Federation, Lithuania, Kazakhstan. As part of the official visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Ukraine, which will take place from 13 to 14 September 2010, it is planned to sign a Memorandum of Understanding between the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Ukraine and the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the regulation and supervision of the financial market and financial institutions for the exchange of information in the field of insurance market surveillance. However, in the negotiation process, primarily in the process of joining the Multilateral Memorandum of Cooperation and Information, developed by the International Association of Insurance Authorities, foreign regulators expressed concerns about sufficient legislation that would make it impossible to distribute confidential information that would be provided by foreign regulators. As a result, the signing of relevant contracts with foreign regulators is halted by the imperfections of Ukrainian legislation. With a view to solving this problem, your view is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets, which refers to the fact that the information provided by the State Service to the foreign regulator can only be made available to third parties by the prior consent of the foreign regulator who has provided such information. The main objectives of the draft law are to address the issue of professional secrecy during international cooperation, to ensure the preservation of confidential information, to ensure the establishment of a special competent executive authority in the area of regulation of the financial services markets of bilateral and multilateral agreements on the exchange of information with foreign supervisory authorities. In the event of the adoption of this bill, the DerjfinServices will be able to obtain and use confidential information received from international organizations, public authorities or non-governmental organizations of foreign States to perform tasks defined by the Financial Services Act and the State Regulation of Financial Services Markets or come out of it. Any confidential information received from the international organization, government or non-governmental organization of a foreign state will be a professional secret and will only be made available to third parties by the appropriate prior consent of the organization, the body that has provided such information. The setting of such requirements is conditioned by the requirements of foreign regulators as a prerequisite for making agreements for the exchange of information. The adoption of the draft law will ensure greater efficiency of government regulation of financial services markets by sharing information between supervisory authorities and allowing the issue of professional secrecy to be addressed at national and international levels in the interaction of supervisory authorities. Please support the draft law in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u34	Thank you. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets. [[on the regulation of issues relating to the exchange and storage of information in the framework of international cooperation in the regulation of financial services markets]] The purpose of the bill, as the rapporteur said, is to ensure international cooperation between financial services market regulators in order to effectively carry out their respective powers, tasks and functions, which clearly regulate the legal field, which also provides safeguards for the preservation by these authorities of confidential information about clients and under-guarantee institutions. The main objectives of the bill are to address issues of professional secrecy during international cooperation, to ensure the preservation of confidential information, to ensure that a special authority of executive authority is established to regulate the financial services markets of bilateral and multilateral agreements for the exchange of information with foreign supervisory authorities. The adoption of the bill will ensure and improve the efficiency of government regulation of financial services markets through the exchange of information between supervisory authorities and will allow the settlement of professional secrecy issues at national and international levels in the interaction of supervisory authorities. There is also the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. In their conclusion, they note that the bill can be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In line with the decision of the committee based on the submission of a representative of the central body subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers in the field of regulation of financial markets, as well as the conclusions of the Scientific and Expert Office, the committee has taken and approved it by its decisions and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill, both in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention, and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u36	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Please sign up for the discussion: two for, two against. I ask you to bring the honors of the people's deputies to the table. Mr. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I also propose to support this bill as a whole. But I would like us to settle the question or the proposal proposed by the scientific and expert management. That's why she's right, she's technical. And I think after that we can adopt this bill as a whole. The point is that article 32 is about international cooperation. And actually, new innovations, they're perfecting this article. There's only one money. The point is that now the confidential information that our body receives from an international organization has the right to transmit to third parties. And in the law that we're discussing right now, this rule is that you can give this information to third parties only if you agree with the organization that gave this information. That's right. And the scientific and expert management is asking if you would complete this phrase by adding: "or under other conditions defined by this organization." So I suggest then that we accept this technical amendment as a whole. And article 32(3) reads: “The confidential information received by the authorized body, the international organization of state” – and further in the text – “can only be given to third parties if the organization has previously agreed”. This is an active norm, more faithfully, a proposal that has already been made. And to conclude with the phrase offered by scientific and expert management: “or under other conditions defined by this organization.” In this case, I think we can accept this bill as a whole and not go back to it. So I propose that we support the right technical proposal of the scientific and expert management to adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! No one insists on the performance? The proposal is to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the technical correction that Stanislav Arzvitin has just made. And that's in the conclusion of the science department. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole in the draft Law amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and State Regulation of Financial Services Markets, taking into account the technical law of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which Stanislav Arzvitin sounded. [[dealing with issues of exchange and storage of information in the framework of international cooperation in the regulation of financial services markets]] Please vote. [[17:16:44]] For 249 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas. [[on the building of educational, cultural, medical, sports and health facilities]] [[Registration number 6023]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[17:17:19]] For 225 Decision taken. The rapporteur is national deputy Smythuch Grigori Yudkomovich. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by Bill No. 6023 on the planning and construction of the territories. [[on education, culture, physical culture and sports, medical, sports and health]] You remember that a similar bill was being considered under the signature of the national deputy of Rybak, but unfortunately, then the deputies did not support the bill, although it was largely supplemented by me and my colleague Lis. The essence of the bill is that now, you know, given that Ukraine is in a building crisis, and this crisis is continuing during 2010, and there is an urgent need for additional funds to be involved or to make them all cost-effective, so to speak, the basis for investing in the above-mentioned objects that will make a substantial contribution, so to speak, which are essential in our society. Therefore, it is proposed to objects that do not pay the congregation for infrastructure development because they are, in our view, objects of social purpose, these funds, not to involve these organizations that are building, because they are not only built at the expense of the state budget but also at the expense of the investors involved, to unite these objects under the guise of making them equal in their rights. In my view, therefore, the provision of such benefits will increase significantly and reduce the cost of such essential facilities for our society. Once again, these objects will include not only physical culture, sports, educational institutions, and medical assignments. Therefore, taking into account the national need for these objects, I would ask the national MPs, considering that they discussed the bill, to vote it today on the basis and in its entirety. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u40	Thank you, too. Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov, please decide the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! The bill that is now being passed into the hall is of vital social importance. We all know that social infrastructure is far behind in the development of areas. And today, in accordance with articles 13 and 49 of the Constitution, where all forms of farming are equal, we bring you to your consideration. What should be in the legislation is that these entities, independent of the form of property that build health - care facilities, build schools, preschools, physical objects, should be exempt from the payment of rations for the development of social infrastructure. Because the objects they are building are social infrastructure objects. In view of today’s high demand for the market, especially in places of mass population. And today, physical culture has become available only to the elite. The adoption of this law will help people who plan to do any small business in this area and to create more places in schools, hospitals and physical health institutions they have the right to invest more money and to pay less on the social infrastructure of rations. It's the law. These proposals are supported by the two committees of the Supreme Council and are a positive conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion if that's what you need. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u43	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Of course, the efforts of the drafters of the bill to introduce additional benefits to the customers who are building health, culture, education are commendable, but we can do the same. And today those customers who do this construction have benefits because they only pay 4 percent of the total cost of construction, while others pay 10 percent, that is 2.5 times less. At the same time, by supporting such an initiative, we are concerned that building such an institution, such as how educational or cultural in the future can be used for other purposes, and therefore it is not possible to enact this law in general. And if you accept, you have to write an article 27, add that “the building of educational institutions, cultures, physical culture, sports, medical and health services” and add “which in the future will carry out their activities on a non-profit basis”, because these institutions can be built as. And used as a commercial facility. At the same time, in part seven of the second paragraph, where the words “except for the buildings of culture and education of medical and health recognition” are deleted, the addition of “physical and sport” should be made. So there are these observations, and I think in general, in support of this idea, this bill should only be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u44	Thank you, too. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u45	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party In principle, I agree with my colleague Karpuk. I would like to clarify some of the points that would allow this bill to be something that would achieve its goal, not some mediocre goal. I don't mean to say that they were foreshadowed by the drafters, but the lack of definition of terms always creates the possibility and probability of misinterpretation in the following. I don't think the conscientious authors of the bill are interested. So those suggestions that I want to make right now might be taken into account in the preparation or second reading, or with these amendments to vote in general. What does that mean? I'm continuing with your opinion, in terms of refinement in the types of establishments listed. That's not hard to do, because once again, obviously, you didn't mean that the not-for-profit institutions of culture are, for example, galleries that make profits, for example, theaters that have purely commercial character and even theaters. Similarly, saunas and various physical complexes can be applied to the sphere of cultural and health institutions, which provide a fairly good profit. So they don't meet the criteria that you define in your quotes, the not-for-profit nature of these institutions. So that's where they're going to come in, really, those who have a not-for-profit character. Then it is perfectly normal to give benefits to those who build such facilities. So once again, I want to rephrase the types of institutions listed, better than the author, no one will. Once again, if this is to be done, including what colleague Karpuk says, we can vote in general, but this must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Planning of Landslides. [[on the building of educational, cultural, medical and health facilities]] Registration number 6023. Please vote. [[17:26:33]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in view of the slight comments and suggestions here, may put to the vote to prepare him for the second reading under the reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I'll bet this one. to vote on the proposal for the commission of the committee to prepare it for the second reading under the reduced procedure. So for the next plenary week, we have the opportunity to look at it. The Secretariat would like this to be taken into account in the event of a positive decision by the Supreme Council. [[17:27:12]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian People's Organization Act. It's a new edition. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Is there no objection? Please vote for this proposal. [[17:27:43]] For the 220. Decision taken. Rapporteur, National Deputy of Ukraine Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u47	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", block "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, adopted in 2001 by the Law on Self-Organization of the Population, as has been shown by practice, and there are very many comments and requests to the Supreme Council to improve it, all those dealing with the issues of self-organization of the population, and therefore the initiative of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government has led to the creation of a special working group to which the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, members of the Secretariat of the Committee, representatives of the United Nations Development Programme in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Association of Local and Regional Councils, the All-Ukrainian Association for the Promotion of Population Self-Organization and Local Self-Government. This working group has prepared a new draft of the bill on self-organization of the population and has been tabled by MPs from Omelchenk, Matvienk, Tihonov, Bodnar and Gordjanek for your consideration. I want to say right away that he has a number of principles that, in our view, improve the organization and the spread of the self - organization of the population. First of all, this is a refinement of the understandable apparatus. The second is the emphasis on the non-profit status of self-organizational organs. Expansion and clarification of the principles on the basis of which self - organization is carried out. The introduction of three management types of self-organizational organs. Because if you analyze the practice of their creation today, it's usually the street or the home organs of the self-organization of the population, the house. And we have, by our present arrangement, self - government agencies, where there are a few villages. How to deal with issues of self - organization in the village, and why not think that this law could solve these problems? Thus, this law provides for the formation of self-organizational organs at three levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u48	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u49	On top of that, where we have population points that form part of a council, on the average they're street or microregions, and on the base they're street or house. This bill is more concise. And it seems to me that it will stimulate democratic processes and encourage people to organize themselves. And that's what he needs. There is reason to support it in the first reading and to work with the comments you will make. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u50	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Mikola Fedorovich Traiduk. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on Self-Organization of Population, introduced by the National Deputies of Bondarenko, Semerak, Podgorny, also by the People's Deputies of Omelchenko, Matvienko, Tihonov, Bodnar and Gordjenek, and the draft Act on Amendments made by the People's Deputies of Borisov, Greeniv, Žebravski and Tabajnik. [[Registration number 1444]] [[Registration number 2108]] [[Registration number 2355]] The Committee notes that the need for the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Self-Organization Authorities is due to the continued increase in the role of the population self-organization bodies in the local self-government system, the need to simplify the procedure for the creation of self-organizational organs and to clearly define their status. In conclusion, the general science-expert department believes that. The management believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the comments made and that bills 2108 and 2355 should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[Registration number 1444]] However, after discussion on the committee, since the three bills contain the same positions, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Self-Organization of Population, introduced by the People's Deputies of Omelchenk, Matviyenko, Tikhnov, Bodnar and Gordjenek, to adopt and entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government with the proposed bill for consideration in the second reading, taking into account the separate provisions of Ukraine's draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law. [[Registration number 2108]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u52	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u53	by registration number 1444 and 2355. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u55	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, come on. I'm one of the authors who signed this bill in 2008 and we need to make a balanced decision today. First, to look from the point of view that the bill in its kind, proposed by the committee, is a huge step towards a total administrative-territorial reform that will bring a lot of misery to Ukraine. I'm proposing not on behalf of the faction, as the author of the bill, that we bring it back for re-reading, or that we even propose to register the new bill on self-organization of the population, by removing very many of the unacceptable norms that are contained in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u56	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUTT faction, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u57	"Julia Timoshenko Block", Reforms and Order, Vladimir Bondarenko. I am also the author of that law that is in force today and also the author of another bill, which is essentially in practice consistent with many of the positions proposed on the basis. But there are things that need to be taken into account today, and they're not in the bill that we're talking about. The point is that, unfortunately today, we have a system where the local administration not only does not contribute to the self-organization of the population, it does everything in its power not to. After all, a certain freedom of people to manage their own courtyards, property in that courtyard, has always irritated the authorities, even though the authorities have never overlooked the problems of small sports grounds, the basements of the unemployed, the problems of well - being, the landscaping, and so forth. There are cities in Ukraine, especially in Zaporozhye, where the organization has reached quite high levels. There are women working in public order, there are people who organize themselves to provide child - care services for mothers who cannot leave home. That is why we now have great practice in Ukraine that should be generalized. So I would ask the Supreme Council today to adopt this law in the first reading, but to commission the committee to gather the authors, all the other bills that have been passed there, which were before and are now submitted in order, as proposed by my colleague Gordienko, that we all work together to produce a bill that is acceptable to Ukraine, which would take into account the trends that are, and the main trend is to get back, the desire of the local councils of self-organization to make obedient little councils in places. So it would be worth it today, not to accept it as before, without considering, without talking about someone going out as with the Tax Code and explaining that we were wrong because we weren't reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The Committee's conclusion, which has been brought to your attention, is to accept as a basis. The main scientific and expert office suggests that the right of the legal initiative be restored to the subject. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Law on Self-Organization of the Population, registration number 2108. [[new editor]] [[17:37:20]] For-7. There's an offer, my dear colleagues, to re-read the law. I am voting on this proposal, namely, to refer the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Self-Organization of the Population, to read again. [[new editor]] Registration number 2108. Please vote. [[17:37:56]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we're about to consider a draft law on search-and-research. At the same time, the committee addressed a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposing that the law should be deferred in view of the working group’s work and that there should be some unagreed moments left in the document. Is there no objection? Don't you have to vote? No, it's not. Thank you. Let us set aside our consideration of the matter. The same applies to the draft Probation Act. There is an appropriate appeal by the committee with a corresponding argument. They propose to exclude draft laws from the agenda of the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 7.09.2010. No warning? Yes. The same applies to the draft law, registration number 3413, 3413-1. The committee, at the signature of the chairman of the Committee on Law Enforcement, requests that the consideration of these bills be deferred. do we support this concern? Now, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prosecution of the arbitral tribunal and the issuance of implementing letters by decision of the arbitral tribunal on a summary procedure, and I propose that this issue be considered. [[Registration number 4806]] Please vote. [[17:39:56]] For the 220. Decision taken. Rapporteur – National Deputy Pritika Dmitry Mikitovic, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Justice's Subcommittee on Justice, Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the prosecution of the arbitral tribunal and the issuing of implementing letters as decided by the arbitral tribunals. [[No. 4806]] Since the adoption of Ukraine’s “On Third Courts” Act, some amendments have been made. However, some relations with the arbitral tribunals in the courts of general jurisdiction and the issuing by such courts of enforcement of letters of decisions by the arbitral tribunals remain unresolved. Such a situation sometimes undermines the need to appeal to these courts for a solution to the dispute between civil society participants. In order to remedy the identified shortcomings of legal regulation, arbitral proceedings required the addition of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code to the rules governing the procedure for the prosecution of decisions by arbitral courts in the local courts of general jurisdiction, as well as the issuance by such courts of implementing letters following the decisions of the arbitral tribunals. In particular, it is suggested that the question of the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunals’ decisions be settled, the form and content of the complaint against the arbitral tribunal, the procedure for the action, the procedure for its consideration, and the grounds for the annulment of the arbitral tribunal’s decision. In addition, the form and content of the application for an executive letter for the execution of the arbitral tribunal’s decision, the procedure for its consideration, the grounds for its refusal and some other procedural aspects of the enforcement of the arbitral tribunals’ decisions are defined. In line with the conclusion of the First reading of the Bill, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration can be adopted as a basis. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Academy of Law of Ukraine, the Odessa National Law Academy, the Ministry of Justice generally support the bill. The Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u60	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u61	The Committee on Justice recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prosecution of the arbitral tribunal and the issuance of implementing letters by decision of the arbitral tribunals, registration number 4806, to be adopted on the first reading on the basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u62	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich. Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov. Committee decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u63	The bill was considered by the Justice Committee at its meeting on October 21, 2009. It was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 4806 in the first reading as a basis. In general, the concept laid down in the bill deserves support. In line with the conclusion of the First reading of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office can be adopted as a basis. The Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Academy of Legal Sciences, the Odessa National Law Academy supported the project. In view of the above, I ask you to support the committee's decision and to adopt Bill 4806 on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Well, if you don't want to speak. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? There are no willing speakers. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I propose to vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the charge of the arbitral tribunal ruling and the issuance of implementing letters as decided by the arbitral tribunals]] [[Registration number 4806]] Please vote. [[17:44:30.]] For 240 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 5155]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Maruschenko Vladimir Stanislavovich. In summary, please consider the proposal. [[17:45:15]] For 214 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been drafted in response to the need for the introduction of article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, articles 2, 6 and 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Indexing of People's Cash Income, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 22 May 2008, which are recognised as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, are unconstitutional, changes made by paragraphs 66, 98, of the second chapter of the Ukrainian State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2008. The proposed changes include the maintenance of the purchasing power established by Ukraine’s social pay legislation, which is targeted and shared, by increasing public social security guarantees and other benefits, which determine the size of social benefits that are subject to indexation. That is, we are renewing the link between the maintenance of purchasing power, social payments of a single nature and the increase of social guarantees, which requires a systematic review of basic State social guarantees. As of today, a number of drafts have been registered in the session room and we have been given a number of bills to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine itself. Thus, honourable colleagues, the decision of the Constitutional Court is at hand. It's legal, it's not being accused, it's not being examined. You and I are obliged in this session room to make the necessary changes required by the Constitutional Court. I'll remind you again. This is article 13 of the Act on Paying for Work and Articles 2, 6, 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Indexing of People’s Money. The implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine, as it does not violate the basic principles of the budget process for the year in question. But acceptance, the adoption of our bill, will allow for the restoration of social justice and the correction of the wrongs that were committed in 2008. Please support the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u67	Dear colleagues! What's the point of this law? By 2008, the Pay - for - Work Act, article 13 of which stipulated that when minimum wages were determined, other social benefits were paid. This is accepted at the level of the general agreement, at the level between employers and tradesmen. In 2008, the Government of Timoshenko, I stress, takes a decision in the 2008 budget, which in fact states that the level of social benefits is determined according to the budget. So it actually eliminates the rule of law. And this rule worked until the members of the Party of the Regions approached the Constitutional Court to say whether it was a constitutional norm when the legislative acts annul the decision of the law. Thus, the social situation of those who received the minimum wage, support for families with children, and other social benefits was aggravated. The Constitutional Court said: “This is a gross violation of the law”. And just as I'm doing the law, and I want to tell our opponents that this is a very important social standard, we ask today to renew those rules of law, which is article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work. What does this rule mean? I stress that the main task of adopting the bill is to restore social justice in the area of pay, to index the population's monetary income and to support the most low-income sectors of the population, especially in the context of the financial crisis and to continuously increase prices for consumer goods and services. So if, let's say, prices actually go up, but now there's going to be an indexation, like social pay, that's moms with kids, low-income people, and so on, the increase is going to be, the indexation of the minimum wage, and so on. So this law, I emphasize, firstly, we are implementing the Constitutional Court's decision; secondly, we are repealing the normative acts used by the Government of Timoshenko in 2008 and assigning social benefits from the budget, and thirdly, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u69	Thirdly, we are renewing the rule of article 13 of the Pay for Work Act. So I don't think anyone will have a hand in supporting this bill, because it's essentially social, aimed at protecting all kinds of populations, especially vulnerable groups. Thank you for your support. The committee decided to vote in favour of him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please state the names of the national deputies on the information board. Andrew Pavlovsky. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u71	Indeed, the law is designed to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, it's interesting to see the legal aspect of this not to come out as oil, because there's a decision by the Constitutional Court that in some ways has expressed its opinion and stopped certain positions that have worsened the social situation of our citizens. And with regard to the same Wages Act, which was said to be one more aspect that is not currently being implemented in Article 6 of this Law, which states that the wages of the first tariff charge should be no less than the minimum wage, because in the tariff order of all budgeters there is a wage. So now the difference is more than 300 dollars, because in the first rate, 567 is the wage, and the minimum wage is 888. That's the difference between 300 bucks. So every budget officer in our country doesn't get 300 dollars from the government of Azarov, and qualified doctors, teachers don't get it, they don't get 500-600 dollars from the government of Azarov. I think that people need to learn to protect their interests, wake up a trade union, and demand that people are entitled to do the Wages Act and that the pay at the first tariff rate be equal to the minimum wage to be finally implemented by this norm of the Labour Act. And this law, we will support on the basis of the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the Party "The Fatherland" will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-07-m1.u72	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am betting on the committee's proposal to vote, namely to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5155]] Please vote. [[17:52:51]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! All the questions that were scheduled for consideration today have been discussed. The Supreme Council made the right decision about them. A number of bills have been postponed. More specifically, their consideration has been postponed in connection with the need for further work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work in plenary mode on Wednesday, September 8, 2010.
