ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u1	Yes, dear colleagues, please come into the session room, take your seats and prepare for registration so that we can continue our work. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:00:43]] Cards were registered in the 409 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, during the presentation today, there was a proposal to hear information about the investigation of the death of student Igor Indil in the premises of Shevchenkov district office of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Kiev. There was an assignment from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Lieutenant General of the Police Crikun Alexiyyyovich. This is an offer: to listen to information so that we can further determine what our actions will be in this regard, if necessary. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u2	Please, Alexeiovich. How many minutes does it take for information? In five minutes, and then, dear colleagues, if you have any questions, five minutes to ask. Within the limits available to us, we'll get information so that we don't interfere with the investigation. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u3	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, allow me to inform you of the extraordinary event that was the 18th of last month. About 5:00. The 17th at 8:30 p.m. to the district inspector at the inn who lived there in this inn. Makarenko, a teaching institute, turned to another one on the watch. So he made reference to the fact that the students who live there are in gross violation of public order. They did not respond and turned to him for help. Given that he lived there and had just arrived from work in the proper form, he made a comment to a student named Indillo. The student’s reaction was inadequate, expressed in uncensored terms, and was in a state of drunkenness. After a few minutes, it was decided by the district inspector to bring him to the district office, where a protocol was drawn up and a decision was made in accordance with the legislation. The student accepted the offer. So he and the district inspector got in the car, along with the victim was his fellow countryman, who accompanied him to the district department of internal affairs. In the district department of internal affairs in the protocol detention room, the student continued to act aggressively, to express himself uncensored. Uncensored and uncensored, he did not respond to the comments he received. In making this protocol, once again, I repeat, there was his companion, one group. After a while, it means that, given that he was in a reckless way, this student fell to the floor. So once again, I fell on the floor myself. No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] I fell on the floor once. So in the protocol detention room, I repeat, there were only three men: a local, detained, who unfortunately died, and a fellow student. So after that, the district inspector, along with the queue, made a decision, would be to accept an ambulance. So at 9: 05 a.m., an ambulance called for help that brought an appropriate condition to this detained student and provided him with medical assistance. So at the request of the police, the ambulance crew refused to take him to the hospital, considering that he was drunk. Then somewhere in the relief work -- that's the proper explanation for this ambulance crew -- means the student when he came to the right consciousness, started threatening and insulting the ambulance workers. After they left, about 22 hours after the protocol was completed, they were transferred to the detention room. So there were two detainees in the holding room with him, two men who were always there and they were talking to each other. And you can see these conditions that you can see to the queue, and you can see to everyone who's there. So about four o'clock in the morning, he went to bed on the bench, there in the detention room. About 4:40 p.m., on the fourth morning of the 40th, he fell from this bench and heard that something was going on. So when he looked at the queue, he went up, so this stalled Indillo, he was lying on the floor. Those two who were there in the room, they were there somewhere 3-4 meters from him, on the other benches they were there. So after that, it was accepted for the queue to call for “quick help”. The same doctors of the “fast” came.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u4	Microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u5	The same doctors who came at night came, so he was still alive. They began to help him. So, unfortunately, he died. There was a massive mass on the floor, and there was a massive mass on the floor. Sadly, he died. To this day, so, well, I've removed, signed, signed an order, a management of paradise, another and responsible. First of all, then. The other one. The minister was removed until the end of the official investigation and until the end of the criminal investigation, which was committed by the prosecutor of Kiev City, we removed them from our service duties. So we've conducted a service investigation, we're in charge. So there is a service and a service investigation under way for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This commission, which conducts a service investigation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is involved, meaning legal defenders, journalists involved. So they are also given the opportunity and will be given, so to look at all the explanations and get to know these materials, which at this time are extraordinary today. So I was also personally dating the dead man’s mother. So I told you how it was, then. I asked the city prosecutor to familiarize him with the material of the cases that they already have in their investigation. She was in the D.A.'s office, and she met. So all the explanations that were originally given, there they were, four men that night, they had an event, all those explanations that were given from day one and from this day forward, they're not different. And today, as a result of official investigation, there are no police violations established by the General Authority. But an investigation is under way. The prosecution is in charge. So, before the trial is completed, and until the prosecution's investigation is completed, the matter remains open. On the side of the police, there is no pressure on the witnesses, on the victims, on the relatives, on the mother and on the relatives. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign in. How many, five minutes to ask? Let's do 10. Please record. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u7	Officer, I have a question for you. You said the victim agreed to the police's request to go to the local police station. That is to say, this indicates that the person was completely adequate and had a normal response to the demands of the police. That's the first one. The other one. You said the victim was swearing uncensored. And I have this question: “What was the reaction of police officers to uncensored profanity and how did it turn out?” And the third question is, “What is the conclusion on the causes of this victim’s death, medical detention?” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u8	The first thing I said was that he agreed. I meant that no special means had been applied to him — either handcuffs or other actions by a police officer. This was what I meant when I said that he and his companion voluntarily went to the district office. If he had resisted, the district officer would have called another in the Paradise, and the car would have arrived at the right place, and they would have worked it out on the spot, and they would have delivered it to paradise. That's the first one. The other one. Lika. Lyka was expressing that I was not present there personally; the swearing was that there was an angry disobedience to the police officer, to calm down, to go to the room, to rest. Moreover, the police officer did not go out on his own, but he was summoned by another, who was at the bottom of the post, where the guards of the hostel. He called him to help him, that is. And the third is the conclusion, yes, initially when she arrived in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u9	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u10	In the morning, when the ambulance arrived, I also left in the morning at 6 a.m. And the ambulance crew concluded that he was suffocating with mercury. But then, when they opened up and did the experiment, it turned out that he had a head injury, which means a skull fracture. So he also has implants on his elbows and his buttocks on his body. And this is the conclusion of an official expert. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u11	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u12	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Of course, I think my colleagues express their sympathy to their loved ones and loved ones because a young person has died is a tragedy for their loved ones and our compassion. And I have something to do with that. Alexeiyovich, you are a permanent worker, have long devoted your life to internal affairs. Of course, under your direction, the matter will be addressed in a comprehensive manner, and you will give the ministry an assessment of the actions of officials. But I have a question for you. Please tell this district inspector, if I understand you correctly, he was, so to speak, in carrying out his duties or not. That's the first question. And why is this inspector, if the clerk saw for himself and did not acknowledge the suit he was in in carrying out his duties and the need for him personally to deliver it to the district police department in that regard? What was the point of this question I want to understand to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u13	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, this local guy lived there for about a year. Him. There was an agreement between the head of the university and the Shevchenk administration that they would allow the district inspector to live in this hostel, and the district inspector would help them in order to protect the public order of this hostel. During the past year, there were 10 calls to the police in the area of the hostel for drinking alcohol, and for others, there were two in the year. Taking that into account, the district office was there, and he was providing, helping to secure public order there on. by agreement with the management of this institution. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u14	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u15	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Alexyyyyovich, we have heard various reports in this room, including various officials from the prosecutor’s office as well as police leaders. We also heard that the body was found by someone who was later recognized as the corpse of Gongadze, less than three inches [10 cm] short. We also heard recently on the radio and on television that the machine that was hit on the way to Borispol with a civilian car had no relation to the protection of the presidential hull, and later I saw a great militia officer looking clearly at the air and saying that it had absolutely no bearing on the protection. I would not want you, as a person who has just taken up his duties in Kiev, to take a position, not neutral, but objective. I'd like you to facilitate the investigation, ask those students who said on the air that this boy, like all of them, was doing himself adequately, and the militiaman started.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u16	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u17	And the militiaman started to mess with the law. So what I'm saying is that today's report, I think, is a little bit of a lopsided to protect both the militiaman and the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u19	Thank you for asking. I want to say again that I'm not protecting anyone because I've been in this position for two months. That's the first one. The other one. I've released a lot of people, coworkers, over the past two months, from internal affairs, from the Kiev militia. And thirdly, I want it to be objective. This is not a situation where you can lie. It was a man who died. And I had a mother, and I talked to her. And I have kids, too. So I'm going to do everything I can to make this objective. And if there's anyone there, whether it's business or someone else, he'll be guilty, believe me, I won't protect him, and I'll come and apologize. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u20	National Deputy Ariev, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u21	General, please tell me how many more deaths it takes to understand that something is going on in the Ukrainian district police departments? How much longer does it take to cut down souls? How long does it take for people to get out of there or disabled people, or to carry them, excuse me, forward with their feet? And these are not isolated cases anymore, they're becoming massive. Maybe it's a question in the air. But the second question is specific. You said there was a friend of his who went with him to the Ryviddell, and so it was when they made the protocol. Tell me, who was he there, as well as detained, as a lawyer? Because I don't remember any cases in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, so that, in a petty hooliganism, for example, someone would be detained and taken away with him again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u22	Thank you for asking. How many deaths? There should be no death. That's all we understand, and every militiaman understands that. I want to tell you that in Kiev, on average, we deliver about 100 people to paradise. There is also a legislative problem. Previously, the sobers were where they were delivered, and where they were brought to their senses, apologize for that word. So where, then, they went out of there in the morning sober and went home and went to work. Doctors today, unfortunately, do not take them out of paradise when they are heavily drunk. And they stay in paradise management is a problem. And this problem, I'm counting, needs to be solved at the legislative level -- that's the first. Second, what you asked about your companion. I repeat that there was an agreement between the miles of paradise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u23	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u24	There was an agreement, and given what it was, help to put order and ensure public order. So this young man, his friend, went there as a witness. And, thank God he's gone, if he's not there, I imagine I'd hear today and I'd answer what questions I'd like to ask. Sadly, though, such a tragedy arose. It's not my fault. It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u25	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is a very difficult problem. The point is that we all want to fight crime, but for example today we have about five thousand murders in the country and about five thousand serious bodily injuries with death, about 10,000. Every person’s life is as expensive as that student’s. But the problem is that a few years ago we destroyed a system in general that basically provided some kind of prevention and the same kind of bra, and those LTPs, and all that. Today the police were left alone with this problem. Do you hear what the General has to say? Twice when a “quick help” arrived, they refused to take him to a medical facility — where the problem was. That is why the minister of health, and no, should be with General Krikun, and we are with you. To solve this problem. And I have a question for you, Alexei Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u27	Please make up your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u28	Ten seconds. Please tell me whether he violated the city’s prosecutor for what happened or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u29	Thank you for asking. 28.05 The city's prosecutor has filed a criminal case for the fact that the officials of the Shevchenk district office have exceeded their official authority. But why the fact. To investigate all the nuances in this criminal case, all the questions, study and make decisions under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u30	Thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat, Alexeiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u31	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I think the Supreme Council, the relevant committees will be in control of this issue. When there is a need and the outcome of the investigation, we will likely return to that question because it is extremely resonant. Is there no objection? None. Now we continue our work. Dear colleagues, you and I on the Conciliation Council had an agreement that we would discuss at the morning session the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the amendment to section III, paragraph 1, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure the protection of soil fertility. [[Registration number 6346, 6346-1]] And at the evening session, we will consider this bill. I understand that we had no objection from any faction. So the proposal is to consider this issue by a reduced procedure and move on. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:23:54]] For 290 Decision taken. Reporters: Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich, and National Deputy, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues present! One of the most important challenges in the development of the country's agricultural sector is improving land use, increasing efficiency and creating conditions for competitive agricultural production. Today, there is no scientifically sound approach to land use for agricultural purposes with a view to obtaining high economic performance, which has led to a decrease in the ecological resilience of agrolandshafts, degradation of agricultural land, loss of soil fertility, as one of the components of the natural environment and indispensable resource in agriculture. A consumer approach to crop cultivation, a lack of seismics, has led to a sharp increase in degradation processes and further decreases in soil fertility and land productivity in general. We have individual tenants who rent land for commercial agricultural production over 10, 20, 50, 100, and even 200,000 hectares, without being responsible for the damage done to the soil by taking appropriate measures only by those who provide financial gain but who exhaust the soil. For example, in some areas of the country, the sunflower in the sown area is already 25 to 30 percent, in which case it is not seven years later, as recommended, but four or even three years later, the sunflower in the sunflower. In view of this, the Supreme Council passed a bill last year and entered into force on 31 July. In doing so, it is necessary to defer the terms of validity of this law because they are not real because it is impossible to produce about 20,000 suitable projects in eight months. And violating these terms will result in the imposition of appropriate fines on farmers. There are so many complaints and proposals to the Committee on Agrarian Policy, so a bill on land relations is being tabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u34	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u35	Thank you. Regarding the amendment to section 2, paragraph 1, of the Final Provisions of the Law of Ukraine “On Making Changes to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, ” which is recommended to postpone the act. fines in this law until 1 January 2012. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u36	Thank you. Please sit down, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, in addition to my colleague Kaletnik's reporter, I can say the following. Last year, about this time, a law was passed to bring about the things my colleague was talking about. In fact, in pursuit and profit, including the distortion of the integrity of its change, fertility, and fertility of the Ukrainian Blacklands are being undermined. The law, which has been adopted, is correct, but as always “snare to invent cunning.” During the year, and the law goes into effect as of July 1, hundreds of commercial structures are ready to work on these land use plans. The price of the issue is 60 dollars per hectare, up to 25,000 dollars per hundred hectares, depending on the region and depending on the size of the land use. To understand what this means, 34 million hectares of land in processing, multiply and figure out that the Tender Chamber can rest peacefully from 2 billion to 7 billion a year. Thus, respected colleagues, the profitability of agriculture over the past four years, averaged 2.6 billion. Imagine what the rave stands for, what the reaction to which this reaction lies, to the power which it is not, and we, too, are the authority here, and the executive power is the power. Therefore, our laws differ in one aspect. Colleague Kaletnick proposes to postpone the introduction of this law, and I propose that the law, along with the colleagues who signed with me, put in a mechanism. What kind of mechanism we're going to use after we've run out of time and what we're going to use. We suggest that these things be translated, namely, the approval of land use plans and the development of the state budget. Because in the Constitution there is a rule that preserving soil fertility is a concern of the state. What does it mean to translate into normal language? Dear friends, lips won't roll, for 2, 3, 7 billion. The budget's going to cost you -- and they're going to do it with the agronomists, and that's going to do it with the third-rate harvest plan, and they're going to do it with the approval of the state-owned organizations, and they can control it from the land commission to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u39	And he can control it from the land commission to the environmental prosecutor's office, that's it. Because the standard that we've proposed in our law counts, defines the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Cabinet of Ministers will determine exactly as we suggest. So it's now proposed if you could go under this law. In the first and second readings, vote on the bill of colleague Kaletnik to really postpone now, because as of July 1, it's already in effect. And the bill that we wrote with our colleague Tucker was accepted in the first reading because it contained mechanisms. What should we do next? Postponing, then good, and then what? To be accepted in the first reading and then in the second reading, please, with the government, let us do something to make the peasants normal and our soil suffer. Work for future generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion when needed. Well, if we don't, we're going to vote on the proposal that John Kirilenko just made. Names of the national MPs, please. Roman Tuck, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u41	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine! ” Well, I fully support Ivan Grigorovich's offer. I just want to make it up to you. What are really agronomists, we finally have government services, institutions in the land system. But I would say that in our bill we have to work out some piece of the government budget anyway. Let's say it's small amounts, let's say it's a year, there's 100 million. You see, for today, we're setting a standard for a 100-acre project. It's basically farming. I am not convinced that all farms have a permanent job of agronomists. That is why we do not need a state today. And so the proposal is made by my colleagues that the first bill is adopted in general, and the second draft is adopted in the first reading. And we have to get these standards back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u42	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u43	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. I think it's the right thing to do, but it's the right thing to do. If you are traveling in Ukraine today, you see yellow fields burning in various areas. Some chemical was used that destroyed hundreds and thousands of acres. It's in Cherkaschi, in Chernigovish, in Poltavian, I've seen it. Today, no one cares about marriage, soil erosion, and so forth. And so the agronomic service that should work in Ukraine should be legally regulated. And what our colleagues today have developed is a perfectly faithful and correct approach. Until we restore this service with certain sanctions for violators, with the possibility of affecting them somehow, we can simply destroy the world’s most fertile black people, whom we have recently been proud of, but who are now either disturbed or destroyed by erosion. I propose to go the way that Ivan Grigorovich has proposed, and both bills will be adopted in the order that is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u44	Vaschuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the importance of these bills is great, but I would like to say the following to the Committee of Agricultural Policy. We need to stop the practice of creating other structures in state structures such as Derzcomem. These are the commercial structures that millions, billions of dollars of money earn in peasants, in people who produce acts, and in each law prescribe that it is the responsibility of the public services who are called to do so. Let them make some money. And let them extend the scope of their services. We don't feed thousands of wrestlers at the expense of a peasant. That is why we generally support the same law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u46	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u47	In general, the law is the first and first reading of the law of Kirilenko. It's just that you have to write the mechanism more clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u48	Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, it's not even a pleasure to have 350 votes, 340 votes on board, but it's a pleasure to see that, in understanding the philosophy of the essence of the laws and the consequences for the country or sectors, the coalition's position shares the majority of the opposition. This suggests that, to date, the number of healthy MPs in Parliament, abstracted from political and ideological labels, exceeds the constitutional majority. It's a pleasure, we're on the right track. That's why I think Ivan Grigorievich is absolutely right when he said, "Do you need to legitimize?"? And back it up. He said from life, from the ground. So said Gregory Nikolaevich Kaletnik: we must support him. And I think that together we will support these two laws and do good work for the agro-industry complex, for the country and for the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The proposal is that Bill 6346 should be adopted as a basis and, in general, Bill 6346-1 should be adopted as a basis. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on the draft Act amending section I, paragraph 1, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "To amend some of Ukraine's legislation on the protection of soil fertility." Again, registration number 6346. Please vote. [[16:35:55]] For 365 Decision taken. The committee proposes that this law be adopted as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Act amending section I, paragraph 1, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "To amend some of Ukraine's legislation on the protection of soil fertility" as a whole. [[Registration number 6346]] Please vote. [[16:36:37]] For 367 The law is passed. A proposal for adoption is now being put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility. Registration number 6346-1. Please vote. [[16:37:10]] For 368 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on pre-document checks at border crossing points. Registration number 2766. [[Re-Second Reading]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The committee considered a bill amending some legislative acts to carry out pre-document checks at border crossing points, 2766, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to remind you that this bill was drafted to implement the International Convention on the Harmonization of Frontier Controls of Goods, which was signed back in 82 in Geneva. Under this obligation, we must make a more simplified and accelerated control regime at the checkpoints through State control, which meets the requirements of international law and the practice of organising joint control of customs by Ukraine and neighbouring States. The bill is now ready for consideration in the second reading and in general. And all of the proposals made by the people's deputies in the committee have been considered and decided upon. But now information has come that there are some observations in the agrarian bloc of government. And there are requests in the agrarian block that these comments may somehow be further worked out. So, on the one hand, of course, we've given this bill a long time. And it needs to be accepted, but in order for there to be a guarantee of going to Parliament, I would like to propose that this bill be passed on to the next plenary week, if Parliament agrees to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. There's an offer, and I had a dialogue with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy today to agree on a number of positions, and I think we should take a look at the committee's proposals to remove the annulment of this law in order to find the agreed positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u53	For next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u54	So I'm voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 27.]] Take it off the vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable reporter, I don't think we're going to get out of this position properly. I fully support this point, only then do we have to vote in favour of the commission of the committee so that it has the right to return to this table again, to this consideration. That is, to return to his request for reconsideration. This will be in line with the Rules. The committee will work on and give, otherwise it has no right to make changes to the table, because we again have the right to amend and so forth. It would be more legally clean, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's put the committee on his request to return and return to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u56	How better to do that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, maybe you'll give it a hint. But if this is going to be a second reading again, we're going to lose two more weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the proposal is to postpone consideration of the bill with the commission of the committee to agree on the discussion points, if necessary to make the necessary clarifications, to be finalized for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. May I? I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[16:41:29]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party – 166, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 7, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 34, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 2. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State oversight in the area of communications. [[Registration number 0970]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Morocco, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please. Is there a reporter? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State oversight in the field of communications. [[Registration number 0970]] It was submitted in 2007 by the Government of Yanukovic. I will recall that the project aims to improve the organization of public oversight and control in telecommunications, postal services and radio frequency. The draft is of a technical nature. Routine work is being done to streamline existing rules, as well as in fact legal implementation into the laws of the existing provisions approved earlier by the Cabinet of Ministers or the decision of the National Communications Management Commission. This is due to the fact that the postal communications, telecommunications, radio frequencies of Ukraine have been enacted at different times and have not sufficiently systematically and clearly defined the basis for the organization of public oversight in the field of telecommunications, in particular the State Communications Inspectorate. Only 40 proposals were submitted to the second reading, of which 38 were the Cabinet of Ministers and 2 were made by People's Deputies, Korz Vitali Terentievich, the BUT faction. The Transport and Communications Committee has considered all the proposals that have been made and has taken a unanimous decision: to take into account all 38 proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers, according to the proposals of Deputy Korge: No. 2 to be taken into account on an editorial basis and No. 1 to be disregarded. Korz Vitaly Terentievich is a member of the Transport and Communications Committee and agreed with the decision of the Sectoral Committee. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the drafting of the bill proposed by the Professional Committee for second reading. This position can be confirmed by the present representative of Kabmin, Chairman of the National Communications Management Commission, Olejnik Vladimir Filimonović. The Committee on Transport and Communications recommends the adoption of the bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, virtually all the proposals put into law are taken into account. What is the view on Bill 0970 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I've been assigned to report from the Cabinet of Ministers. I am the head of the National Liaison Commission, Oliynik Vladimir Filimonovich. When preparing the draft for second reading, all our proposals were taken into account, so the government supports the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general, as outlined by the Transport and Liaison Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority, the Committee considered them and felt that they did not affect the general content of the law. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State oversight in the field of communications. [[Registration number 0970]] [[16:45:41]] For 310 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Your attention to the announcement. In accordance with the personal statement made by Ukrainian Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Ivan Vasilovich, of June 1, 2010, I report that he has withdrawn his previous statement of membership in the coalition of the deputies' factions "Stability and Reform" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act. [[on customs clearance]] [[Registration number 4270]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Yuri Borisovich Kruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u62	Oleg, don't stop working, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u64	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! A draft law amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act of 26 March 2009 was reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on first reading and adopted as a basis on 4 March this year. [[Registration number 4270]] The Transport and Communications Committee, as requested by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has finalized the bill and is submitting it on second reading. The revised draft bill was considered at the meeting of our committee on 14 April this year. During the preparation of the draft for second reading, the Committee received proposals from the people's deputies of Ukraine, Terehina, Karmazin, Kruk. The Committee proposes that the proposals of the People's Deputy Terehin be taken into account regarding the change in the title of the bill and the refusal of simplified customs clearance of transit goods for excise goods. The Committee also supported the proposals of the Ukrainian people's deputies Terehina, Karmazin and Crook to delete from the final provisions, referring to the need to bring their legislation into line with the law, since it is the central authority of the executive branch, the work of which is directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers. But instead of a two-month period, the Committee proposes a thirty-day period. Therefore, Karmazin's amendment to the entry into force of the law was rejected the following day from publication. The main legal office agreed on the bill without comment, according to the rule of law, Bill No. 4270 could be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. As a result of the discussion at the meeting of the relevant committee, it was decided unanimously to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Law on the Transit of Goods, as proposed by the Committee on second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 4270]] I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, all the proposals for this bill are included. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill that has been drafted. I'll bet you a vote. Please withdraw from the vote. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I'd like to hear that Crook will probably come out of the coalition, do nothing there, he's not chosen by that list.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u67	Let's essentially do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u68	But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm basically speaking. Why? Look, paragraph 15: this law takes effect from the day of publication. This was accepted in the first reading. I can't see whose amendment, but suddenly it's written that it takes 30 virgins from the day of publication, but whose amendment isn't written. Yuri Borisovich, I would like to hear an explanation of whose correction and why 30 days. Because in my opinion, the law needs to be introduced immediately, only to be published. And in the first reading, there was such an offer that he has been making since the day of his publication. I say, no, let's put in the next day, my amendment. No, you write another 30 days after publishing. Where did they come from, I want to know procedurally, that is, according to the Rules, who proposed the name of the author of the amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u69	I said the amendment was proposed to me in the committee. In connection with the request and request of the State Customs Service that they should revise their provisions on the basis of this amendment to the transit bill. That is why I think that, in the opinion of the Customs Service, they are not today said to be the subject of a legislative initiative, so I have made this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin was very well aware. When you and I voted this bill as a basis, there was this position: the law takes effect from the day of publication. George Carmazin makes his proposal: This law takes effect the day after its publication. The committee does not consider it, but in the right column there is the thesis that this law takes effect 30 days after its publication. The question is, What are we voting for, and who made this proposal? There's no authorship here. We have to vote for this proposal then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u71	I made an amendment. And at the request of the Customs Service, I have already said, so that they can make appropriate changes to their regulatory documents in connection with the amendment of the law. I would therefore like to vote if that is necessary. Yuri Anatolevich also insists on voting in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u73	The Committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u74	The offer deserves attention. But, together with preserving legal cleanness here, we must vote in favour of this content: “This law takes effect 30 days from the date of its publication”. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. Ivan Grigorovitch, we vote. [[16:52:55]] For 255 Offer supported. The factions? Please. Region Party – 168, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 27, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 12, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, “Afterfractional” – 2. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal: on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Transit of Goods. [[on customs clearance]] [[Registration number 4270]] Please vote. [[16:53:40]] For 318 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Roads Act. [[concerning the granting of permission for the placement of road service objects]] [[Registration number 5041]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Sinice Artem Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u75	Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act of 3.08.2009 of 18 February this year was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on first reading and adopted as a basis. [[Number 5041]] The Transport and Communications Committee, as requested by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has finalized the bill and is submitting it on second reading. The revised draft bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on 14 April this year. During the preparation of the draft for second reading, the Committee received a proposal from the People's Deputy of Carmazin. The Committee suggests that the proposal be taken into account in part. The proposal for free use of sanitary facilities is not supported by the Committee, as it goes beyond the law of the bill. The bill does not address the conditions of access of users to sanitary facilities on a paid or free basis. With regard to the comments of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office, the project complements the existing list of road services that is open, i.e. is not limited to these facilities, since it is impossible to provide for all types of facilities that may be created in the future. The project sets out the criteria for road service facilities, which are service facilities for road users and which are located on or required to be used for driving or leaving the road. As a result of the discussion at the meeting, the Committee decided unanimously to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Roads Act of 3.08. the ninth year, as drafted by the Committee. [[Number 5041]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u76	Thank you. Shall we vote? I then put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee, the adoption as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Roads Act, number 5041. Please vote. [[16:56:41]] For 308. The law is passed. A draft Act on the provision of services is under consideration which facilitates the departure of natural persons abroad from Ukraine or their temporary stay abroad. [["On non-state immigration services"]] Re-reading, bill number 2396. He reports on the Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolajovic Strtović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! Just a year ago, on June 2, 2009, we adopted, by 290 votes, a bill on non-State immigration services, which was jointly submitted by three factions: BUTU, Party of the Regions, “Our Ukraine”. On February 18, this year, the bill had already been tabled in the second reading session room, but it did not get the required number of votes and was sent to the committee to prepare it for a second reading. In the drafting and drafting of the bill, 183 proposals were made to the committee for the second reading, including 155 complete and 28 rejected. The project worked with the involvement of terminologists, conducted an expert study by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. As a result of the collaboration of many experts, the project has been edited. Following the Supreme Council’s decision to re-read the committee today, no amendments were made. The current nature of this project is now remarkable, well-known facts about transnational prostitution and trafficking in human beings from Ukraine, as well as the transfer through our territory of foreigners to Asia and Europe. Politically, this project does not have any political power that forms government, it's interested in developing production in our country, rather than in providing labour to other countries, and in other countries' salaries. Various intermediaries who neglect the rights of our citizens by risking their profits send them abroad to questionable places without proper contracts. An analysis shows that applying basic requirements in the area of emigration to the signing of contracts with citizens, as well as transparency in the activities of intermediaries, makes it impossible to commit many other crimes and thus protects people, which is what this bill is aimed at. This project is not permissible because it is not necessary to allow entrepreneurial activities, since the Constitution allows the State to do everything that is not prohibited in the business sector. Like all other laws, in the business sector, this law is restrictive because it sets the necessary rules for the provision of immigration services. If we don't set these rules, the illegals on their way to the border will grow, the workers from Ukraine will be easily deceived and robbed. The state would have to regulate these processes, but the situation without control has become a national disaster. It is important to note that this project in no way limits the human right to freedom of movement. It sets out only rules for the activities of intermediaries, the duties of officials, the granting of non - State emigration services, the requirement for documenting such services, and so forth. I note that the project is called Non-State Immigration Services, and it refers to a variety of subjects that facilitate the departure of persons abroad and who are not authorities. A second bill is being prepared today, namely, on government immigration services — services related to going abroad that are provided to Ukrainian citizens by the authorities. There is also imperfect legislation, and it must be put on the road. The project does not require spending from the state budget, but it will help to fill it. Thus, transparency in the activities of mediators will block the concealment of profits and thus contribute to the payment of proper taxes. I would like to remind you that, as of January 1, this year, a readmission agreement with the European Union has been fully in place, under which Ukraine has undertaken to pay for the return to its territory of various criminals who have left Europe from Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of such a bill is urgent in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, first of all, here's a proposal to change the name of the law fundamentally, in principle, almost. So let's vote on this amendment, and then we'll follow up on the amendments. I'm voting on a proposal that's included for a change in the name of the law, which is called Non-State Immigration Services. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:01:05]] For-75
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u79	The decision is not taken. So there's the original name of the draft law. Now let's go to the repairs. The second amendment was rejected. Yuri Karmazin, renumber all selected parts of the text. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u80	It's actually already numbered, but it's very hard to make corrections when there's no numeration. This applies to all the projects that you don't bump into, then you get it, you don't put it there. So this is a question of legal technology, of all the MPs who face it, who can understand me. I didn't want to talk about this amendment, I'd like to talk about the eighth amendment, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, if I may, with your permission. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to talk to you about the eighth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u81	And you're missing the fifth?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u82	I can miss five, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u83	Let's make the eighth amendment then, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u84	Can I get an eighth, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u85	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u86	Dear national deputies and distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich! Amendment eight refers to the definition of the very term “emigration services”. I define it in the activities of legal persons, I stress, “legal persons who are not associated with the exercise of authority and who facilitate the passage abroad of natural persons from Ukraine”. End of quote. The words “or their temporary stay abroad”, I believe, should be excluded, since temporary stay abroad is not an emigration, but is not an emigration service. So we type in, starting with the name, and it's already stuck there, ending up here by text, things that aren't emigration. Even the chickens will laugh at us. I don't know, but I think this amendment should be taken into account. It now states that it is the activity of the subjects. What are the subjects: legal, physical? You're out of commission. I think it's much better that this is a legal activity, as I define it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u87	In the second column, in the third column, there is a justification for this amendment being rejected because the project does not indicate that temporary stay abroad is an emigration. The temporary exit is yes, and from when a person returns or never returns, he left abroad. In other words, it is the provision of services from temporary departure abroad or to a permanent residence, or a temporary service assignment, or employment contract. Therefore, the bill did not provide for the definition of an emigration term, simply "exiting from Ukraine abroad". Since there is a whole group of mediators involved, the law provides for the normalization of their activities. And the word “emigration” does not become the subject of this law, because it is about services to encourage citizens to go abroad. And whether they stay there or they come back, the law doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, Amendment 8 of Jury Carmazin is put to the vote. [[17:04:30]] For-72 Correction not supported. Let's move on. 10 revisions. Are you insisting? Yuri Anatolyovich! Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u89	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a bit of a balanced law. This is Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to prove my point. Paragraph 3 of article 2 suggests that the following wording reads: “Emigration services are defined by this and other laws of Ukraine by legal persons who facilitate the departure of natural persons from Ukraine abroad to a permanent place of residence.” Because others fall under other laws. It's about tourism, it's about. – completely different laws. So I would ask and I don't understand why the committee turned it down. As for the 11 amendments, I will also immediately take the words “and the natural persons entrepreneurs”. I think we should rule out all over the draft. It's about 11 amendments to shorten time, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u90	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u91	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u92	The fact is that there are a large number of entrepreneurs and individuals in Ukraine today who have Minpraci licenses for mediation to organize work abroad. And the term of their licenses at our request shows that the last of them will be completed in 2013. Disqualifying them today in connection with the adoption of the law was a violation of their rights. And the second position is the position of the Committee on European Integration, which said that, as we cannot ban foreign residents from working in the Ukraine market on the organisation of such trips, we can't do business activities and individuals, because this is contrary to European principles and rules. Thus, the author’s group left the proposed amendment to Karmazin rejected. This may be noted in the Transitional Regulations that the operation of their licenses ends in 2013, and then no new ones will be issued. But now it is arbitrary to claim the right because the legislator so decided, there is no reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u93	Amendment No. 8 of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote. [[17:07:00]] For-9 Correction not supported. Let's move on. 10 revisions. Are you insisting on her? No, we've already voted on it. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we're 10, huh? Let's move on then. 11th. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u94	I already said about her, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the 11th amendment I considered to be the words “and natural persons who are entrepreneurs” should be excluded everywhere in the text of the bill. I've justified that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u95	I'm voting on the 11th amendment. [[17:07:54]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Amendment 13, 14, 15 Yuri Carmazin. They're rejected. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on them? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to think about what we're voting on. Here's the text that says "potential temporary immigrants" and definition. Well, all those who are not happy with life in Ukraine are potential today! They're all potential. But those who are immigrants, I define in paragraph 13: “these are Ukrainian citizens who, for the purpose of leaving Ukraine, seek relevant information or appropriate services to any intermediary or immigration service”. We have, we might say, potential offenders. Also, all of them, Vladimir Mikhailovich, are likely to be. And 14 amendments. I propose to delete from article 2 and other articles the mention that foreigners and stateless persons may be persons who are provided immigration services in Ukraine. Because foreigners are exactly what they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u97	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u98	I'm answering. Yuri Anatoliyovich as a professional lawyer should understand that an immigrant can be called a person who said good - bye to Ukraine’s borders and waved forever. Before this happened, there were some warnings that she had changed her mind in the process of preparing the documents, maybe her parents convinced her that she was a potential immigrant. This is the term proposed in the bill. And by the time the legal action had taken place, and the city of Chop had swung in the train car -- then please become an emigrant. Yes, unfortunately, there is legislation. Thus, the bill provides in detail that when a person seeks to go abroad, to work, or to a permanent residence, he is a potential immigrant. He needs to be provided with appropriate services, which are regulated by this law. Thus, this amendment is rejected. And now for foreigners and stateless persons. And if we have to do the right thing, that a foreigner, as recently reported in our newspaper Voice of Ukraine, has found in Odessa a bum who is a German citizen, and he has lost his papers and what happened to him. They turn to appropriate institutions, relatives come, why can’t they provide such services if this is part of the business? It's absolutely not forbidden. Once again, anything that is not prohibited is allowed. This law imposes prohibitions. Anything outside the law can be used successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u99	Dear colleagues! It's the 13th Jury Carmazin vote. [[17:10:53]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Then there's no need to put the 14th and 15th amendments to the vote. It's about potential and temporary removals. Let's move on. Correction of 20th Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u100	Yes. Yuri Carmazin. I propose in the amendment to the 20th part of the second part of article 3, to put it this way: “This law extends to the activities of entities that provide emigration services within any of the following activities and lists these activities: agent, legal. advice or information services that facilitate the departure of natural persons abroad to a permanent place of residence, legal, advisory or informational services for individuals leaving Ukraine.” And so, in my opinion, this is a perfectly normal list and a comprehensive, almost comprehensive list of the activities of these emigration providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u101	The second part of article 3 is broader and more meaningful if you look at the list of activities, there are six. And the definition of Yuri Anatoliovich narrows down the concept of providing such services. In addition, the amendment insists that it is given to citizens who go to a permanent place of residence. Here, too, the language goes both to a permanent place of residence and to a temporary stay. Thus, the list is expanded to include Carmazin’s amendment. From these motives, it is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u102	Amendment 20, by Yuri Karmazin, is put to the vote. Microphone, please. Take down the vote. What about Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u103	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I do not insist on voting in this case. I wanted to. I just have a different theoretical approach. I didn’t rule out the things that were involved, and I didn’t rule out the six of these services; I was just talking about the activities of which the subjects were expanding. So I don't insist, I just wanted it to be added to what was adopted in the first reading. You can see that it was accepted, but I didn't propose to exclude it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u104	Thank you. Amendment 40 then. Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyevich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u105	Amendment 40, this is page ten. I propose that paragraph 7 of the first article 4 of the draft law be deleted. What are we talking about? The point is that there is a ban on the granting of emigration services to the subject until his clients who are temporarily abroad return to Ukraine. That is, the activity of this subject cannot be suspended until, let us say, the last sent man is there. Well, obviously, somehow it's not quite. I'd like to hear an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u106	Yuri Anatoliyovich, Yuri Anatolyevich, read carefully. It is this principle that prohibits the activity of an agent who takes care of a person from abroad. The ban on the termination of non-emigration services before it is returned to Ukraine. In other words, he is also abroad under the care of those agencies and firms to which he addressed him by making this agreement. That's what's written in paragraph 7 and you've turned it in the other direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u107	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 40 by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u108	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u109	It's rejected. [[17:15:01]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Amendment 43. Are you insisting, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u110	Yeah. Yuri Carmazin, amendment 43. Dear National Deputies! Well, obviously, I'll tell you about the last amendment. Well, how can you care if you're doing a lot of other things, so legal, let's say, services? How can you, or have counseling done, how can you continue to care for yourself? This is me before, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the purity of the explanations that you are giving. Because then the MPs are wrong and they vote. And the amendment is proposed. Part 1 of article 5 of the project states: “Only natural persons, entrepreneurs, Ukrainian citizens and legal persons who are created by Ukrainian citizens, registered in Ukraine and operating within and within the limits established by this and other laws of Ukraine may be subject to the provision of immigration services”. I would also like to point out that foreigners should not be involved in this matter. They can only do so if there are agreements made with them in a civilized manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u111	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u112	I'm answering. Today, about 30 percent of foreign founders work in the non - immigration market. If we take it, if we mention TUI Travel, it's the biggest operator for the Euro-2012 tourist trip. This approach if we rule out, we will automatically put Ukraine in a special zone. Although I understand the care of Yuri Anatoliyovich, there are many abuses here. But the law is designed to put them under control. And once again, this can be done when their license is terminated. Today, there is no reason for us to arbitrarily take a license in connection with the adoption of such a law, but what we have announced is that we are on the European Union, on the European Union. Therefore, the commission that drafted the bill rejected the amendment, believing that it was wrong for foreign tour operators to work, tourists who provided such services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u113	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 43 Yuri Karmazin. [[17:17:26]] For-12. No correction supported. Amendment 55 Yuri Karmazin. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u114	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in these amendments, in fact, if anyone does not understand the previous amendment, in this part of article 5, I propose to make an editorial; “Participation in the provision of immigration services in Ukraine is only for Ukrainian citizens and only as workers registered in Ukraine for the provision of immigration services”. I draw your attention to how even now in the draft documents submitted by the Russian Federation, the Russian Federation says: “Dear Ukrainians, at the joint ventures that we will create with you, there should be a leader of the citizens of the Russian Federation.” Normal people, good guys. They don't just bend in front of the West, so they didn't go into WTO in conditions that aren't good for us. Do you understand? And we're like, come on, Ukrainians, well, it's not important to have a job, let's provide Malaysians with whatever we're full of here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u115	I'm voting 55 of Yuri Carmazin's amendment. [[17:18:58]] For-23 Correction not supported. Amendment 57, Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u116	Yeah. In paragraph 8, it reads: “Foreign companies whose representations are not registered in Ukraine have no right to provide immigration services in Ukraine”. So I suggested that part eight of this article be deleted. Yes, it's not excluded as far as I can see. Is it excluded? Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u117	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u118	Once again, we stress that foreign companies without representation in Ukraine have no right to engage in any illegal activity. This extends to all commercial relationships that operate under the general rule of economic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u119	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 57 Yuri Karmazin. [[17:20:05]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Amendment 65, Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u120	I suggest that this is Yuri Carmazin, the first part of the first article 6 delete. This refers to the rights of these officials, the general rights and responsibilities of the emigration service provider and its officials. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. I can agree with the committee's point of view in this case, and, Vladimir Mikhailovich, at 68 amendments, I don't insist either. 68 and 70.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u121	Thank you. And 72? Paragraph 4 of Part 1 of Article 6 should be deleted. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u122	If you don't mind, I'll explain 72, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u124	72 The amendment refers to the right to include foreign workers in meetings with potential temporary immigrants in the order provided for in the Act. I think that this should be excluded from this paragraph 4 and I'm basing it on the principle of the practice that is now particularly in the case of the removal of our people, speaking. There could be abuse. So basically, I want to do something to prevent this abuse. Well, maybe something's working, something's not working out how to prevent it. What about Mr. Stretovich? Vladimir Mikhailovich, what do you think? Mikolayovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u125	I am responding to your claim in the part that a person wants to get complete information about the rules that are in force in the country, the amendment provides that the service provider has the right to involve foreign company employees in meeting with potential guarantors so that they are not first-hand, but heard from the representative of the country of the company that does such work as is actually happening, so that there is no claim that his Ukrainian employee was misleading or given some details that mattered to him. So it says here that he has the right to engage, from abroad, to call a representative of this company, and to hear from him, and what is really about the country he's going to go to temporarily or permanently. This is what this amendment means. From these motives, it is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u126	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment. Are you filming? Well, then let's take a picture. Let's move on. Amendment 75. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u127	No, I insist on the '80s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u128	Oh, the '80s. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u129	The 80th, it's the 20th sheet.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u130	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u131	Yes, this is Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that part three of article 6 be made clear as follows: “A worker who provides immigration services during an interview with an immigrant is obliged to give him his service certificate, original or notary certified copy of the licence to provide such services. I mean, I'm talking about protecting a person, and it's supposed to be written: with which co-worker does he tell you if he has a license, which time does it work, this license, where he should go in case of anything. I want this person to write it down. And I don't understand why this amendment is rejected, because this amendment is designed to protect the rights of our citizens, who in this case are being abused by these professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, before that was the amendment of 79, the national deputy of Krutz, who suggested that part three of article 6 be expelled. And since this article has been ruled out, Karmazin’s amendment has been automatically rejected. But if, as a result of the contract, the provision of such services would be contractual, the treaty would be a legal basis for a person to charge, contesting actions that were wrongly provided to the subject who sought such services. So it was decided that it did not matter what the person he represented showed. This is a company that does its job in the Ukrainian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u133	I'm betting on the 80th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[17:25:06]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. The 83rd amendment, do you insist on it, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to explain my motives again. The reasons are that I want to make sure there's no abuse later. Therefore, I propose that part five of article six should read: “The interview during a personal meeting with an immigrant should be held at the location of the subject of the provision of immigration services”. But what I'm looking at here right now was the correction of Cruise to the same position. So it turns out that, well, then what? The first reading contained an amendment that was written as far as possible. Now she's accounted for to be expelled at all. Then it turns out, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that I want to ask this question, let me ask you, I would like to confirm who. To vote in favour of the 82nd amendment, because it significantly undermines the rights of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u135	I realized that we need to put an amendment to the 82nd People's Deputies of Krutz. I'll put it to a vote. Take down the vote. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u136	But this could put Krutz himself, his amendment, the committee considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u137	No, it could be any deputy demanding an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u138	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u139	I'm voting on amendment 82, the author of the national deputy Krutz, and the committee has taken it into account, to confirm this amendment, to support it. [[17:27:10]] For-16 So, dear colleagues, this means that the proposal of the national deputy Krutz is not taken into account. Let's move on. What else do you have, Yuri Anatolyovich? Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u140	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, it is now coming to light that the editor of the first reading, which is absolutely normal, I wanted only to improve it, it is written, so far as the first reading reads: “The interview during a personal meeting with a potential temporary immigrant should take place as far as possible at the location of the subject providing immigration services.” I propose that only this word be thrown out “if possible”. So the point of my amendment is to make a small one, Vladimir Mikhailovich and Vladimir Mikolaiovich: to improve this standard that we have adopted in our first reading. And I think that's how it's going to be improved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u141	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I don't deny it, frankly, because the amendments are accepted on a commission basis. Individually, I am addressing the parliamentary majority and everyone: please support this amendment, it will not undermine the quality of the law. The word “if possible” as an alternative will be excluded. And it's going to be a binding norm that it has to go through here in Ukraine, not anywhere else, that will contribute to the spirit of Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to delete the words “if possible” and therefore “the interview during a personal meeting with a potential temporary immigrant should be held only at the location of the subject of the provision of immigration services”. That's where you live. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u143	Vote, Mikhailo Alexiyovich, vote, this is what the country needs. That's how you raise your hand. [[17:29:15]] For-59 The correction is not supported, it remains in the first reading editor. Next. Yuri Anatoliyovich, of the 87th Amendment, “Requirements to Ukrainian citizen, subject of the provision of immigration services”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u144	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank you already for keeping the first reading, it's much better than nothing at all, even though I see the tiredness of MPs, especially I see the tiredness of many MPs from specific consideration. So what I'd like to say is that I'm filming, Vladimir Mikhailovich, my amendments, I think when we adopt this bill, we're going to improve the situation with these non-state immigration services. And God forbid that life then shows that I'm right about those amendments, and it's usually going to be that way, obviously. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with the aim of facilitating the process of lawmaking, I am taking down my further amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Since Yuri Anatoliyovich is removing the following amendments, all other amendments are taken into account, we have good reason to make a proposal for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the project as a law. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u146	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to everyone again, this law is relevant to state building, and at least for us to know in the future, and how many Ukrainian citizens are now abroad, today they call the different numbers, who are seven million, who are three, who are two. It's said that one and a half million in Russia, but no one knows for sure. Because in this realm, there are so many dark, very many firms in this realm, very many entities that are out of state control. That's why the law is called upon to bring it all to normal. If you don't support it, it means that you're pouring water on the mill of that shadow economy that is now significant in Ukraine. I ask you, once again, to the parliamentary majority, judging by the amendments proposed by Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please support this bill as a whole and believe that the state of Ukraine will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. I'm voting on this proposal. On the adoption of the draft Law on the provision of services that facilitate the departure of natural persons abroad from Ukraine or their temporary stay abroad “On Non-State Immigration Services” for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 2396]] Please vote. [[17:32:19.]] For-157. The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. He was already on a second reading. So the bill is rejected. Please give me the data on the factions. The region's party is 0, Timoshenko's Yulia Block is 119, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 37, Communists 0, Litvina Block 1, non-factional. Please, Oleg Lazko for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u148	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. It is obvious that the coalition is falling apart in front of the eyes and not just because Mr. Denkovic wrote a statement and after two hours in the coalition he realized that he had made a big mistake and immediately left. And even after this vote, look, even other factions don't vote for the law we need. It's a shame that a coalition that has been promised so much is not really that tough. And this should please millions of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it's a very good observation, only on one condition -- we need to mobilize all factions to vote. That'll be the result. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Services in the Field of Promotion is being discussed. [[What kind of law do we have?]] which facilitate the departure of natural persons abroad from Ukraine or their temporary stay abroad. [[Registration number 2397]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Protection Activities of Vladimir Stretović. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider. I would like to vote in favour of this proposal, with a reduced procedure. [[17:34:37]] For 221 Decision taken. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, under a reduced procedure, 150 votes is enough, so you voted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u150	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. The previous bill and this one are organically linked. Of course, there is no point in considering a bill that I should present today because of the lack of approval of the previous bill. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that these two bills have been drafted by a group of lawyers from a variety of factions directly opposite their ideological views, but these people who have drafted this bill well understand that in Ukraine it is time to sort things out with emigration. Today, thousands of firms are bringing people abroad without any legal obligation both to these people and to the state of Ukraine. They work, in fact, as a conveyor to send people abroad. I am surprised at the position of the faction of the Party of Regions, whose leader, Mr. Janukovic, stated in his own time that he was going to lead the population of Ukraine in a few years to 50 million. So this law would not be easy to export without any reason people abroad, but also the return of those who have already left. I do not know how this promise will be fulfilled, for it pays many families today, not only to be elevated, but to go through a huge upheaval. I want to say that Yanukovich obviously has one possibility: to bring our distant Chinese neighbours here and then this promise will be fulfilled. So far, the process is reversed: about 7 million, according to some figures, or 5 million, after others, Ukrainians are abroad. This bill, which I was about to introduce, would increase the State's influence on these processes, not only in the Queen of Criminal Law, where it could be stopped under 149 articles “Trafficking in Human Beings” but also in administrative legislation that would extend the possibility of sanctioning these people. But unfortunately, that's not voted out, so I want to ask you to withdraw this bill because it doesn't make any sense without being discussed earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote, please note, that the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Law in the Field of Service, which facilitates the movement of natural persons abroad or their temporary stay abroad, has been withdrawn. Please vote in favour of the removal. [[17:37:49]] For 315 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[how to adjust the order in which to determine the size of the alimony]] [[Registration number 1238]] There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. And, honourable colleagues, plus the next bill, it's about amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[2008]] [[on child alimony growth]] That is why there is such an offer. First. Put it to a vote so we can look at these bills in a simplified way. Then listen to the reports, and discuss them together, vote in different ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u152	This marital care is separate. We'll get to him. That's why I'm putting to the vote the proposal to review the bills for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 1238 and 2008]] [[17:39:02]] For 258. Decision taken. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Fedorczuk Jaroslav, Tomenko Mikola The correspondent is Souslov Evgeny Ivanovich. From the committee. Yes, Fedorchuk Jaroslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration, there is a bill that will help to improve the protection of the rights of underage children who pay alimony. In order to achieve this goal, it is proposed to amend article 183 of the Ukrainian Family Code, article 192, which should address the issue of alimony as determined by the court. The content of these changes in the next. If, after amendments to Ukraine's legislation regarding the minimum child alimony size determined by the court in part by the salary, income, parent, child's child's child's alimony will be less than the minimum amount provided for in part two of article 182 of this Code, the recipient of alimony has the right to appeal to the court for an appropriate increase in alimony to the alimony payer. The practical significance of what has been said is that Ukraine's current legislation does not provide grounds for reviewing the court's decision to increase alimony to a new minimum in cases of legislative increase in the size. In this respect, the social problem that arises as a result of this legal gap must also be highlighted. The implementation of the bill does not require changes to other laws of Ukraine, as is the case with the Ukrainian Family Code. There is no need for this project and expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine. I'm informing you that the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u155	Sports and tourism politicians, as well as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, do not object to the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u156	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikola Tomenko, for the second bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u157	Honorary colleagues, the historical moment of the bill, or the historical premise, have been linked to the fact that for several years we have been discussing it at the level of the Ministry of Justice and Public Organizations. And it's like the third attempt to draw the attention of society and the government to the need to solve the problem and the last call that I've been able to convince both the government and the committee, but because of the expiration of the Supreme Council's activities, we haven't reached it. Now Oleg Lášk and I have come back to this subject in order for both the Ministry of Justice and the government and Parliament to negotiate a general strategy and philosophy on this issue. So the second strategic moment. We actively supported children who are born, and by actively supporting the birth of a child, we virtually let go of State policy in the upbringing of children. Now I'm not going to analyze the benefits and the downside of state aid, which has been radically increased, but it's clear that education needs even more attention. So today there is a category of children who are raised by one mother. So when it comes to alimony, they're made up of two parts. The first part is that if a former spouse makes a voluntary arrangement and decides on the matter without trial. I'm not interfering with that plane. When it comes to court decisions, if a mother goes to court, there are two choices that she can get: either from the total income of the father of the child, that is, all the earnings are counted, she can get help that is legally required to make up at least 30 percent of the living minimum today. For example. If a mother is raising a child under 6 years of age, it is 231 bracelets. The second question. If the father is missing, he cannot pay, he is not known where he is, then the state will provide insurance, and he will also pay 231 bracelets. I started to analyze how things looked in other countries. For example, close to us is the minimum support for Belarus, but there are 120 more dollars. I mean, there's no small amount for a mother who raises a child on her own. The complexity of the bill. Ideologically, I didn't hear any serious criticism at the address of our approach, because when we're up from 30 to the minimum of living, it's going to mean that mom will be guaranteed to have a baby when she's 6 years old, 771 bracelets. For example, if from 6 to 8 years of age instead of 276 to 921 bracelets. It's hard to figure out how much we're going to take out of the budget, because all court decisions go through executive services. And I started to wonder, today we can't analyze it, and so my proposal is very constructive. So that we can support the ideology itself in the first. Then we would actively work with the Ministry of Justice and with the executive services, analyze the practice that is actually happening. And I realize that if that's a big enough amount, it doesn't mean that we're going to do it tomorrow or the next day. But I'm absolutely convinced that we can't leave Mom alone with a baby in 231 bracelets. So I would ask a colleague from both power and opposition to take this step today, so conceptual and ideological. And I am ready to work with Minust, with the government, so that we can find a way out of the situation. Not only were young families encouraged to give birth but they were helped to raise their children, and parents were, of course, encouraged to take responsibility for the child’s upbringing after, God forbid, marriage breaks down, and a shared responsibility must be borne even before the child’s maturity. So I would like to support the first reading, and then we will work actively together with the second one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u158	Eugene Suslov from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u159	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on February 18, 2009, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code (registration No. 1238), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Fedorchuk Jaroslav Petrovic. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Family Code, which aims at determining the size of alimony if it raises the legal minimum to improve the protection of the rights of children and other persons who receive alimony. The Committee on Legal Policy noted that there was no indication that the bill was inconsistent with the Constitution. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that in the bill, the texts do not affect the income and expenditure of the budget, and in the case of the adoption of the law, the rules may become effective as of the day of publication. The main scientific and expert management recommended that the prescribed law be adopted in the first reading and based on some observations. These remarks are quite minor, this is a remark to article 183 of the Ukrainian Family Code, saying: “amendment of amendments to the bill” to change the “increase established by law”. The committee has decided to support this bill in the first reading and in general, but given these observations and the agreement of the Hall, perhaps this bill could be put in place as a whole. Because it's a bill that doesn't need any more. And it goes with the Ministry's approval. That's it. As for 1238, the Family, Youth, and Sports Committee also reviewed the bill of Ukrainian national deputies Tomenka and Láška, registration number 2008, as well as the amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on child alimony growth]] The bill proposes to set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u160	Yes, please, one by one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u161	the minimum amount of alimony to keep children at a minimum of at least the minimum subsistence for the child of the relevant age, instead of the current minimum of 30 per cent, and the corresponding increase in the amount of temporary state aid if the father's residence is unknown or they avoid payment of alimony. The Family, Youth, and Sports Committee decided that the bill should be adopted in the first reading and on a basis. I also want to add that our committee had a rather serious debate on the bill, and they were all agreed and unanimously supported the committee that the bill needed to be supported because there were really serious problems. Despite some change in comments, the committee believes that the bill should be supported on the basis of the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u162	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u163	Olga Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I will share my time with my colleague Lášk, as he is coauthor of the second bill. As for the first bill, I want to say that on the day of child protection, it would be the best gift if the House voted on the first and second bills. Because children living in single - parent households deserve the attention of the State. Please hand over the rest of my time to Lassie, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u164	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u165	They gave me the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u166	The point is that time is not passed on under the reduced procedure. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u167	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, co-author of this law along with Mikola Vladimirovich Tomenko. I would like to thank the committee represented by Mr. Suslov, who supported this bill regardless of political affiliation. It's very eloquent that we're looking at these drafts on June 1st is the International Children's Day. I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, regardless of political preferences, coalition membership or opposition, will support these bills in the first reading. There are problems that need to be settled for second reading, but we need to show the whole country, especially those families that today, mothers who are forced to raise their children without husbands, we need to show that the state cares for these families and those children. We have a very big problem today when a man dumps a family, goes, as the children are said to be left behind, and the woman pulls these children in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u168	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u169	Well, if it's one child, and it's not one, and it's from the state, or it's 200 bracelets of alimony from a man, if that man's not hiding. We have five million people in Ukraine who do not work in statistics, and another 2.5 million receive a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u170	Thank you. Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u171	Vladimir Karpuk. “Our Ukraine”. Of course, there is a need to increase the material security of children who receive alimony. And there is a clear correlation between these Bills and Bill 1238 proposed by Jaroslav Petrovich Fedorczuk, which provides for an appeal to the court when the minimum percentage of the salary paid by the father or mother does not reach the minimum amount of alimony that has been fixed for the time being. And the 2008 Bill just defines this minimum size of alimony. At the same time, setting them at the minimum of living raises a number of questions that are not spoken. Because a lot of us now have a large percentage of people getting a minimum wage. And so this will create material difficulties for part of the parents. That's why we need to adopt both of these bills, and we can really be the first to accept it in general, thinking that the 2008 Bill will be adopted. Bill No. 2008 to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u172	Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u173	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, it is difficult to accept that two bills on one issue have indeed been written on the topic and will need to be adopted, and that there is a common understanding of the solution. Children will have to be welcomed and helped. Our proposal is that I think it will find support and this time the proposal of the Party of the Regions will be voted on by 300 votes in favour, and I have no doubt that there will be 300 votes in favour of the Party of the Regions. We propose the Fedorchuk bill to be adopted on first reading, and everything is reasonable, and there is very much sense in it, to take the bill and then to supplement the Fedorchuk bill in the second reading procedure. [[2008]] Thus, we will come up with a single bill that will provide an opportunity to help children. I think the proposals of the Party of the Regions will support 300 with too many votes, I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u174	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the bill. In view of the fact that today the International Day for the Protection of Children still has two bills that apply to the family itself, the request is to continue the sessions for 15 minutes and consider these bills. [[2615, 4313]] Now, let's move on to the decision-making from the bills under discussion. The committee proposes the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[how to adjust the order in which to determine the size of the alimony]] I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft law. Please vote. [[17:55:51]] For 385 Decision taken. The committee offered to accept it as a whole. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u175	There's no denying it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u176	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Maybe I'll take it into account, I'll support it, and here our Expert Office logically says that there's an editorial bill. It's with the editorial law, which is proposed by the Scientific and Expert Authority, so that it won't be edited in general anymore. Here you have it on your hands, that instead of “making changes to legislation” the words “increasing the established law”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u177	Dear colleagues! There's a reference to an editorial character. If there is no objection, taking into account this warning, this recommendation of the Scientific and Scientific Administration will be put to the vote on the adoption of the draft law as a whole. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u178	I am voting on this proposal for adoption, taking into account the observations of the Scientific and Expert Administration of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 1238]] [[how to adjust the order in which to determine the size of the alimony]] Please vote. [[17:57:18]] For 387 The law is passed. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on child alimony growth]] [[Registration number 2008]] Please vote. [[17:57:50]] For 202 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading. [[Registration number 2008]] [[17:58:12]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 114, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 37, Communists – 25, “Litvina Block” – 15. We have two more bills, let's take a look. Well, please, Oleg Light Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u179	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Unfortunately, today, on International Children’s Day, our Supreme Council did not welcome these children. Especially are those of the poor, disadvantaged families who are deprived of parental care and not only of it but also of the ability to live and have an acceptable level of care. I want those MPs from a powerless coalition that didn't vote in favour of this law, I want them to know, maybe they don't know. Today, families who receive alimony receive 230 bracelets of alimony per child, at best. Try it, fellow MPs, live on these alimony. Let the women who raise these children know who they are today unable to raise their child’s welfare. I'm sorry! As we observe such cynicism today, on the International Day of Child Protection!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u180	No, no, respectable colleagues! The faction was mentioned here. Chechatov. We don't need it. We have two more bills to adopt. Please. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u181	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, I'm very sorry that the opposition, as it can't unite and act as a single strong opposition, all divides chairs and can't submit a whole, normal bill. I suggested that on first reading, and then reasonable proposals from the second draft should be taken into account in the second reading procedure. No, you voted the way you wanted. Well, as we intended, we voted. Therefore, if you wish to return again, please have the Ministry of Finance sit down, count the money, and in a week we can return again. But there's a bill you can't make, either. You can't even help your children by being united, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u182	The bill has, unfortunately, been rejected by the honourable national deputies. Please, Yuri Carmazin, you haven't finished your speech today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u183	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Dear National Deputies, distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich, the noble Mr. Chechetov, please see what has been proposed in this law. It suggested replacing the words “30 per cent of the minimum of living”, for which we propose to survive to a beloved child, for which, the minimum of living for a child of appropriate age. What are we proposing is unconstitutional? On the contrary, we propose to make it constitutional. Because the Constitution provides for every citizen, and a child cannot be made to be inferior to an adult, living minimum. We owe it to her to do so. How, at the expense of their parents, the state is no longer important. That is why I would ask you, distinguished all of you, both opposition and coalition, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to re-read. And then the calculations will be made, but don't bury the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I've already explained the logic of our actions. I bet on it again. I bet, I don't support, 191. I'm asking you, dear fellows, let's move, no voices. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[regarding marital care]] [[Registration number 2615]] And 4313, this is a bill amending article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the moratorium on the adoption of children from Ukraine by foreigners]] Here is a request to consider these bills. Please, from the Mikhailo Chechetov procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u185	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, there was a proposal by the author of the Korzh bill to withdraw bill 2615. Therefore, this bill is not requested to consider, not to consider, we can vote. And 4313 we can look at.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u186	The thing is, I don't have that address for the National MP, but he's in the Hall. Please turn on the microphone. I want to say again, I don't have anything at this point. Maybe he wrote. It hasn't come up yet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u187	Dear Mr. Head, I gave you a written application last week to remove it from consideration in connection with the need for its work. I'd like to take this as a matter of fact and withdraw it from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u188	Thank you. I'm asking the Secretariat, and I'm paying attention to why this document wasn't filed in due time for consideration? I'm voting on a motion to postpone the hearing. It's off-limits, isn't it? I am voting for a motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code for Marital Care. Registration number 2615. Please vote. [[18:04:32]] For 226 The bill was removed. Now, honourable colleagues, Bill 4313, on amending and supplementing article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the moratorium on the adoption of children from Ukraine by foreigners]] I suggest you, Your Honor, consider it as a reduced procedure. No objections? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[18:04:43]] 4313 Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code [[on the moratorium on the adoption of children from Ukraine by foreigners]] [[18:05:11]] For 219 Decision taken. Eugenius Ivanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u189	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the Moratorium on the Adoption of Children by Foreigners from Ukraine, was introduced on April 2, 2009, by me as a national deputy and my colleague, Lukyanovka Catherine. [[Registration number 4313]] The drafters understand that adoption is the fundamental right of a child deprived of parental care to grow in a family, since it is the family that is the best place to develop it. In adoption, there is a child’s rights to the rights of an adult, potential adoptive parents. In the international adoption of Ukrainian children, the adoptive parents are mostly foreigners and citizens who, for some reason or other, are unable to adopt their children. I'm also not going to talk about certain cases, negative cases where there have been and have been for a few years about those children's attitudes in those countries where they're adopted. The last incident was literally a month after a child was sent on a plane to Russia with a note that the child did not go to the adoptive parents who adopted her abroad. I mean, thank God that they did, because no one knows where our children are and if they're adopted, and they're treated with all due respect and law, or are they walking somewhere because they've given up? Some of this level and some of these conditions control international conditions, well, so-called The Hague Convention, which has been introduced four times to the Supreme Council and has been broken down four times. A question arises as to whether there is a possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u190	Yes, please, now, as a representative of the committee, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u191	Do we control these children? I'll tell you the truth, no, because Mrs. Karpachov has also repeatedly observed the need for bilateral agreements on international adoption. However, no action has been taken in this direction. Today's big day, today's children's festival, and for me, as a Ukrainian citizen, it's important for me as a father to know that those children who are adopted abroad, under 18 years of age, are obliged as Ukrainian citizens to control the way they are treated. Unfortunately, those reports that half the reports are being sent to the Ministry, half the reports for one reason or another who doesn't know, and most of the cases that they don't control, we can't say, all the children that are adopted, where they're in their present condition. As citizens of Ukraine, as a state, I count that this should be a shame. This bill, amended by the 2012 article of the Family Code, says that it is very easy to limit adoption by foreigners, citizens of those nations with whom bilateral international agreements on cooperation on adoption and protection of those children have not been concluded. In doing so, there are logical exceptions, and the moratorium cannot be extended to cases of adoption by foreigners who are relatives of a child, foreigners who are in an officially registered marriage with a father or with a mother. I would like to point out that the moratorium is only introduced at the time necessary for the signing of bilateral agreements. If our state, our ministry will sign bilateral agreements, this moratorium is not made up. I would very much like such questions never to arise as political in the Supreme Council. Because perhaps protecting children, especially those who are still orphans, is a great moral right that we must be able to protect them from. The committee considered the bill. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u192	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u193	The committee will consider the bill and adopt it to support it in the first reading and on the basis. I would very much ask the National MPs to support this bill, especially on such a day, because we all have the right, we are parents, we are grandparents, we are just Ukrainian citizens who are in the protection of our citizens, especially in the form of orphans and abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-01-m1.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. If there is no objection, I will put to the vote this proposal: the adoption of the draft Law amending article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the moratorium on the adoption of children from Ukraine by foreigners]] [[Registration number 4313]] Please vote. [[18:11:08]] For-191 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading (registration number 4313). [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, dear colleagues, then we have to vote, invite, and there will be people just to vote. Why don't you vote? [[18:11:33]] For 341 Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue to operate in plenary mode at 10 a.m.
