ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:02:38]] There are 422 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on October 12, 2010. 14 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the discussion, information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the progress of negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation regarding the preparation of inter-State agreements, which are scheduled for May 17, 2010. 1 decree was passed, 1 bill was passed on the basis, 11 bills were rejected. Also, at 3 p.m., we started and held parliamentary hearings concerning the electoral system at the local level. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the issues set out on Thursday, May 13. The draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization" is being announced for consideration." Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, there are three draft regulations: registration number 6345, 6349, 6377. I ask Alexander Sergiyovich to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order of their registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting, the Committee considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the election of heads, first representatives of heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of heads, first deputy, deputy head, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization” from 26.04. [[Registration number 6345]] 2010 The draft decree proposes to withdraw, on behalf of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ephraim, from the post of Head of the Committee on Rules, Ethicals and Security of the Supreme Council, and to elect a national deputy to the post of McKeenka, freeing him from the responsibilities of the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Furthermore, it is proposed that the National Deputy of Ukraine Lukyanov, a member of the Party of the Regions’ faction committee, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, relieve him of the duties of deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, and select the National Deputy of Ukraine, Karakaya, as deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, to relieve him of his duties as a member of the Committee. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it consider and support the draft decree. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u3	Let's do it this way. Alexandre Sergiyovich, you will report on all draft regulations. Then questions to you. If necessary, express your position on these draft rulings and then vote on each decision separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u4	For the draft order number 6349. The committee at its meeting considered this provision. The draft decree proposes to change the composition of the committees by electing the first deputies, deputy heads and members of the Committees of the Supreme Council, while retaining representation in the respective positions of representatives of those MP factions, from which the Ukrainian National Deputies emerged from such committees. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it consider and support the draft decree. Please support the committee's decision. As for the draft decision 6377. The draft decree proposes to recall the Ukrainian national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich from the post of member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of the Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the election of his First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it consider and support the draft decree. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u5	Draft decision 6377. Next order is 6349, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u6	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, all three decrees I have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u8	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Alexander Sergiyovich! I'm addressing you as the leader of the largest faction that has formed a coalition, and I'm once again asking you to abide by some of the norms of democracy. Yesterday we chose successfully, or the day before yesterday, Martinyuka, although this position of opposition was and was a precedent. You know that there is a precedent right in the world, to trample on it as well as to trample on any law and constitution. Your committee has always been in opposition, you've been in opposition and you've led it. We're back to the fact that you're going in the tank of power, you're taking everyone in without exclusivity. Do you realize that this is going to sound bad because the absence of opposition and the ability to master it makes power ineffective, and it goes to degradation? I don't understand why you're not showing an example of protecting democracy, why won't the opposition get the committee you're releasing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. There is a case law in the world, and we have a right. And to the decision of the Committee or in the decisions of the Committee, we are guided by the rights and laws that we are enacting here with you in the Hall. We have taken our decision solely within the framework of legislative acts and regulations governed by the Supreme Council. Now, with regard to any quotas, there were certain agreements in the formation of the committees, and we have acted under those arrangements. For that reason. and according to the Rules. Since the Rules do not provide for a reform of committees, and there is only one norm for the formation of committees in the formation of the Supreme Council, that is why we have been guided by this rule. Now, here's the next question. If a party who wished to obtain something had offered documents, documents for consideration by the Committee, we would have considered them. But unfortunately. Yeah, we suggested that. Moreover, to this day, we leave the issue open to the Committee on Freedom of Speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u10	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u11	We have left the Committee open to freedom and to speak; it is not being distributed today. But we asked our colleagues a question: offer us another committee in response. Because there's a clear distortion. When we formed the Supreme Council, the faction, which is smaller than our size, gained more committees. Today he wants to get some more committees without offering anything in return. Agree to this is not a right and it is not even a case law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u12	People's Deputy Korge, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u13	Please pass the word to my colleague Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, you have just said that we are governed by the laws, so I would like to remind you that, in accordance with article 84 of the Supreme Council Rules Act, the opposition should preside over the Rules Committee. The draft regulation 6345, which you report, is proposed for this position as the head of the Regulatory Committee instead of you to choose the representative of your faction. You are two convocations -- both in the past and in the present, when you were in opposition, you led this committee. And so if you have a conscience, you have to comply with the rules of the law and give up this committee of opposition. As far as you're concerned, you weren't offered. For two months, our faction offered you suggestions to comply with the rules of the Law. And we were ready to give you some of those committees that are leading our representatives today. Instead, we ask that you allow the opposition to control power through these control committees. By accepting this decree today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u16	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u17	You're actually depriving yourself of the ability to control power. It's going to hurt you first. And besides, you're setting a precedent when you get back into opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u18	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u19	I will allow myself and only remind myself that the colleague cited 84 articles of the Rules as a law that refers to the formation of committees of the Supreme Council. This is an endless discussion, which we have been discussing for several weeks now, each of us has maintained his or her point of view. But when the legislator wrote that article, he called it “the formation of the committees of the Supreme Council” rather than “the reform of committees” as anyone would like. If someone wants to review some issues on the committees today, there is a direct way to do it, not talk, not talk, not demagogy. Write down the relevant decision, submit it to the regulatory committee and we will consider it. If the factions agree on this issue, we will take a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u20	Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u21	Sobolev, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", party "Reforms and Orders". Alexander Sergiyovich, you're saying that if there's an agreement between factions, then there's the possibility of pre-forming committees. But you know, there is no such arrangement between factions today, but there is the Law of the Rules. Well, if you've at least gone to direct violations before by amending the Rules of Procedure Act to what you're comfortable with, you're now directly violating an active article of the Rules, which defines a list of committees that are directly transmitted to the opposition to control power. Since there is no agreement between factions today, do you not think that you are correct, at least the head of the Rules Committee should be put into negotiations and when such negotiations are concluded, the article of the Rules should be fulfilled accordingly. You are now going directly to a violation of an article of the Rules, so explain your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u22	No, I don't think so, because you didn't have any suggestions. If there were suggestions about the Freedom of Speech Committee, we did, and there were other suggestions from you in writing that you would say that you were offering us one committee to give us a second committee, there are no written proposals on the committee. Please prepare suggestions, give us an overview, and we will make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u23	Upstairs, Timoshenko Street, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u24	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u25	Alexander Steshenko, BUTT faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u26	The Honourable Reporter, the Honourable Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, all that happens here is because the reporter in one postasa represents the largest faction, and the Regulatory Committee. That's the first one. Now to the reporter. Don't you know that the People's Deputy of our faction of his time has registered a draft Order on the Head of the Regulatory Committee? And now you're saying that we didn't have any proposal. Let's do some work, though, in some kind of civil order. Have we lost everything without seeing what is happening to us?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u27	I don't know the order you're talking about. We have the only decision registered regarding the election of Shevchenk as Head of the Committee for Freedom of Speech, and we have not been offered anything in return. We're waiting for you to offer us in return. Everything else is conjecture, insinuation and demagogy. With regard to my powers, today we will vote in favour of the draft decree to which I, in my own statement, am exercising my powers, based on the laws that are in our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u28	National Deputy Hassuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u29	Please give the floor to the national MP Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u30	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUTT faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u31	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. The point is that today this conversation is happening, first of all, I want it to be understood by people who listen to us. It is said that in the legislative field of Ukraine today there are events that show absolute disregard for the vast majority of articles of the Rules, the Constitution, and so forth. And what today is meant by most of today's people to lead those committees that are legally bound to the opposition is not just volunteerism, and, I would say, such a rude intervention in legislation, but, above all, the capture of the remnants of power that are still in opposition, I mean parliamentary power. So you don't think, Alexander Sergiyovich, that you can't change the rules on the football field during the game and start playing with your hands instead.?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u32	I would like to answer you, my distinguished colleague, that if you have doubts about the violation of the Constitution, that is, the procedure that will dispel those doubts. Submit the relevant submission to the Constitutional Court and it shall take the relevant decision. With regard to changing the rules of the game, no one changes them. You try to change the rules of the game while the game is running. As for the fourth time again, we have reserved for you the basic Committee on Freedom of Speech, which provides an opportunity to address all people. Give us suggestions from your faction on the committee you want to propose in return. For example, the Committee on Foreign Policy -- you know that the President's right to determine foreign policy. The Economic Committee is the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to determine economic policy. Or the Committee to Combat Org Crime. If you want to take it all and give it nothing in return, it won't happen, colleagues! It's called not democracy, it's called another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is up. Have a seat, please. As far as I'm concerned. Let's do it this way. Discussion? Please sign up for the bill, Bills, Registration numbers 6345, 6349, 6377. It's a recording. Yes, please give me the names of the national deputies. Alexander Stoyan. First from the faction. Alexander Stoyan, please. The next one will be Zeno's Skutak. Michael Chechtchev's giving the right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, it has long been a balanced decision and to fill vacancies on committees, by committee head, by alternate, on the distribution of new deputies to replace those who have gone to the executive branch, on the transitions from the committees. And they have come up with a balanced solution that does not cause sharp distortions. And today, Alexander Sergeyevich is the first person to say that he is a law-abiding man in order not to disrupt the fragile balance of the normal atmosphere in the hall without destroying it, he proposes that he be the first to remove the powers of the chairman of the committee. He started it! They say, "I'm putting it down." He started with himself, not the others! That's why it's second. It was absolutely correct to say that yesterday, the elections did not take place. And we are not the new mandate of the deputies, who are beginning to structure Parliament and form, to elect the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, to represent, to chair the committees. Checkmate party in the middle. And today we simply replace individual figures by committee, by alternate, by vacancy, by committee. I repeat, and I am absolutely correct in saying that it is not a matter of forming a Parliament from scratch. Parliament on the march. New elections will be held in 2012. That's where we're new, from scratch, from a clean slate, we're going to form the authorities. And today, I have this proposal. Alexander Sergeyevich, you did the right thing, and that does you the honor. As a law-abiding representative of the MPs, you set an example for everyone else, and you put yourself under the authority of the chairman of the committee. But if the ruling is not supported and if we vote, the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of Alexander Sergeyevich Efremov placing the authority of the committee head clearly. But if our colleagues do not support me, I mean my opposition colleagues, they will not support the terms of office of the Chairman of the Committee with Aleksandr Sergeevich Efremov, then Alexander Sergeyevich will have to reconcile both the faction's head and the committee leader. But once again, it's not his fault, he doesn't want to break the law, and you push him to do it, you push him. So, Alexander Sergeyevich, if the opposition trusts you, keep working, you've done well, you've done great.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” faction, the right to speak is passed on to Zinovo Skutjak. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the question that is being discussed today is not just a matter of headship on a particular committee, but the question of the principles on which the coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine operates and on which the relationship between coalition and opposition is based. Such a relationship may be two types: either in principle the winner gets everything and the grief won, and this leads to an authoritarian state where the concept of law does not exist only for ordinary citizens, but even for opposition in Parliament, and a second type of relationship, which is based on part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine: to act only on the basis, within the powers and in the manner established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. To be honest, I don't care what political arrangements exist today between the Party of Regions and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and when they were set up to distribute the committees. Yet I am concerned about the fact that the couple in charge of power today ignores the Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you again, just on the basis of, within the powers and in the manner prescribed by the laws. Colleagues, you can trade for different committees, but where the law specifically says so, be good, abide by the law. What is happening today in the hall and not only today is very often disregard for the Law on Rules, which you have voted and wanted to have. And that means that what is happening in Ukraine today has no bearing either on law or on democracy. So today’s decision will simply be a lacquer paper. Whether you have Ukrainian laws or are willing to live by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u37	Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Zabzaluk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko. What is happening today in the Supreme Council is unnecessary evidence that today's authorities are not going to pass a democratic test. Article 84 of the Governing Council’s Rules of Procedure clearly states that the heads of the Committee’s Rules of Procedure, including the Rules, occupy the opposition. Today, the draft decision authorizing Mr. Ephraim proposes this position of head of the committee to give power to the representative. [[6345]] A direct, gross and cynical violation of the law. And when some colleagues come here and break up, which we see good, and the opposition doesn't want to follow the law, you know, people aren't as stupid as you think. And these are all the artificial circus bellows that show up on the stand, right? Save these circuses for another place, not for the Supreme Council. Don't take people for idiots. And when you're directly violating the law and denying the opposition to control power, and you're walking around, you're looking out for the law, so reward Mr. Ephraim with the name of the hero of Ukraine, if he's such a law-abiding MP and citizen. Actually, Alexander Sergiyovich, I am addressing you personally, even when I understand that you have the right to a replica. Tell me if you have anything to say. Actually, Alexander Sergiyovich, what you're doing right now is a higher display of cynicism. But you will come upon these rakes yourself when you are in opposition. And when you are touched with your feet, do not cry and tell about “what are you insulting the opposition? ” Remember what you are doing with today’s opposition. That is how millions of people stand behind opposition! You're human beings, you're doing it with Ukrainian citizens: you push them, you disrespect the law. You don't oppose, you don't disrespect MPs, you disrespect millions of Ukrainian citizens by ignoring the requirements of the law. And reformatting, shaping committees -- you can call it whatever -- but there are iron facts: you're in power today, we're opposition today. The Law on the Rules provides for the right of opposition. And you do not respect these rights, which are prescribed by law for opposition. This is an iron fact that whatever you're saying here, you're going to form or reformat these committees. So the suggestion: let us today release Ephraim from office as chairman of the Committee on Rules and no one will be appointed to this office; let us take your proposals into consideration today, let us take them together in the office of the Head or consider them elsewhere, along with your opposition proposals, and we will take your proposals into account, and we will make a consolidated decision for which 400 deputies in the Supreme Council will vote. You want to go in the tank, go. Just stop on any second grenade that explodes, and there'll be nothing left of your tiger.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u39	Roman Zabzaluk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia. So who are we going to have? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u40	“Julia Timoshenko’s Block”, Odarchenko. Dear colleagues, I have a specific proposal for draft Decree 6349. According to this decree, our colleague, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, is acting as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration and is moving to another committee. This morning, the Yulia Timoshenko Block held a faction meeting, and the faction unanimously decided to recommend the election of the post as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Euro-Integration of Kupil Stepan Volodymirovich. I have a request to include this in the draft decision and to vote. This will be the first sign when we solve such a completely simple question: our man is coming out of this committee, another representative of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block is coming in and taking over the position of deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u41	On this proposal, which has just spoken, please, a draft decision, and we will consider it. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Alexander Bondar instead of Yuri Klukkowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u42	You should think about it, yeah? Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I think the dispute that arose in this room will continue. There are two serious reasons, deep, not superficial, artificial, which are the subject of discussion, but the real reasons that I think are the cause of this controversy. The first reason is that there are very specific people who believe that committee headship can solve very specific economic issues, including personal ones. And everybody knows that, and it's hidden, but it's absolutely true. And the second, the deeper question is that obviously not all colleagues have the right understanding, unfortunately, I want to emphasize, unfortunately, what is the Committee of the Supreme Council. In any norm, the Committees Act does not say that it is a political institution. The Supreme Council Committee is a professional legislator. If the representatives of all factions came from that position to the essence of the mission of vocation and the content of the committee work, I don't think there would be any controversy. Because the committee's task is not to realize the political interests of one faction or another. It's just an axiom. The committee's job is not to be an instrument of political struggle. The committee's task is purely legislative, legislative work and control functions in one direction or another. It seems to me that the honourable colleagues, if we look at it this way, all of these disputes become absolutely unnecessary, and they reveal the second ground that I'm talking about -- the personal economic, material, mercantile interest of those who want to be at the head of some committees, in which there are always so many applications. There were few applications, such as for the Human Rights Committee. Very little. Because there's no mercantile interest. Let's be professional about the professional institution, about the committees of the Supreme Council! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u43	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Alexander Sergiyovich! Alexandre Sergiyovich Efraemov! Alexander Sergiyovich, I am addressing you. I want to remind you of the political arrangements that were in the Supreme Council when the committees were formed. Then the committees divided the equal and equal between the coalition and the opposition. In addition, the opposition received the Privatization Control Commission. Those committees that have moved to the opposition set out in the Rules have not only legal meaning but political legal meaning. Because they ensure the viability of the opposition as an organ of the Supreme Council. This is regulatory, budgetary, freedom of speech, human rights and the control of privatization. Now you're reminding me of these arrangements, why you have 10 committees in your future, and you have less. I explain why. Because inside the then coalition between “Our Ukraine” and BUIT was the distribution of committees so that the position of Head of the Supreme Council was taken into account. And that's why we got four committees, and BUT got ten. This has no bearing on the division between the regions and the BET. This is the first position I want to remind you of. And no one says that the committees should be released, but when they are released on their own, it would be logical to turn them down. Now, on the issue of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, which is rarely mentioned. I thought that Marmazov Eugeny Vasilovich, who received this commission by the quota of the Communists, after the Communist representative Rybchenko headed the Holding Fund, would resign, too, and hand over the position of opposition, because that's logical. That's not what he's doing, he's not gathering a commission right now after Rybchenko became head of the fund, because there's nothing more to control. Because you can't control what's on your quota. So these questions are still going to come up, they're going to go up in this room anyway, they have to be solved. So I'm looking forward to a coalition of voluntary appeals about the plethora of committees and commissions that should belong to the opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u45	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u46	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. From this rostrum today, words such as “conscience”, “orderity”, “legislability” have repeatedly been heard by representatives of today’s opposition who have called on their fellow Members of Parliament to adhere to these universal, moral standards. Unfortunately, many of those who today deny it are either unknown or have forgotten it and therefore come out solely of the principles of refined cynicism, the trampling of the law, the feeling of impunity. Why do I say that? Today, there is a lack of self - respect in Parliament. And arguing about who the committees are going to get is completely, in my opinion, ridiculous. Today you can just cancel them, they don't need these committees, because any decision is not made on them, because it's all being voted out in this room by the majority that's created on non-constitutional principles and that obeys the direction of the three that divide Ukraine into three today. They shared Mintrans, Naftogaz and so on. And because they don't need work on committees or work on the Supreme Council, it's already been decided. And when there's a call to principles here, I want to say that in that committee where I work, this is the Committee on Budgets, which continues to be run by a beautiful person, but who should leave this office according to the principles that we've approved here. I point out that the two basic functions of the Supreme Council today are deliberately rejected by this hall: first of all, the function of monitoring public money. If we are a parliament, we need to control where money is going to go, not to adopt a decision whereby government officials who are not elected by the people today will share money according to the articles, change the articles of the laws that we have adopted here. So we humiliated ourselves further, and below the plentuse we became like the legislative body of Ukraine. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that another function in Parliament is control and, above all, control over the work of administrative bodies, that is, those bodies that are financed by state funds. This is about the Ukrainian Security Service, about the police, about other organs. So I'll tell you that today the police are severely violating 33, 34 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, banning the movement of Ukrainian citizens in their territory, banning peaceful meetings without weapons and so on. Today, dozens of complaints come to our attention that the opposition rally has not been released by the police, but at times by gently warning about the disqualification of the license from motorists and sometimes harshly putting people in different conditions so that they do not reach Kiev. We've lost ourselves as a parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u47	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of Regions. Paul Sulkowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, I've never gone into a fight or responded to an incident, but if it's personal for me. Here a colleague of ours has been able to comment on the intensification and emotionality of speaking to my colleague and the faction, so I cannot help but reply. The fact that changes in voice baritone never add to the conviction of the phrase that exists. And whatever baritone will be chosen in this room, it is necessary to be guided by the law and what is written in it. And in that statement, I heard only one thing, and I heard fear that we were strengthening the budget committee, thereby depriving this person of the ability to manage this committee. Now with regard to questions relating to the quotation of article 84 of the Rules. What is being done and taken out of one paragraph of this article is called “auditism”. We have to read it from start to finish, and then everyone will understand. Now, with regard to the distribution of committees and arrangements that have been reached. I have great respect for Alexander Nikolaevich, but I would like to remind you that when the committees were distributed, the leader of your large faction offered us only one thing: we will not give you any committee, but we will create special commissions that are not prescribed anywhere in any legislation and you will control us by these special commissions. We have memories, too, so we remember. And the last. Colleagues, when you sit with a pencil and a sheet of paper, you will understand one simple truth: to close your office and have a majority of the committees you want to have, you are fundamentally and arithmetically short of people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u49	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of Regions, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u50	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think you've spent an enormous amount of time discussing how to make a decision on this issue. So I think it's clear to everyone how much more time you don't spend: an hour, two or more in the so-called opposition forces, many of them, you see, the opposition forces are not alone in Parliament, so they'll find what to say and so on. We need to conclude this discussion, make the right decision. Because it's an extremely saturated order of the day for today. We need to move on to more serious issues, and today, without exception, the entire calendar plan for today. So let's vote, and I propose to support the committee's decision. The committee's decision today was announced in Parliament by Mr. Ephraim, and this decision needs to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to say that there are bad things happening in Parliament. This is the site of the Supreme Council. I now placed it with the Head of the Supreme Council to show. Mr. Ephraim, this is about you, please. Mr. Chechetov, this is about you, you speak in a foreign language here, so I want to say to you in a foreign language, "you are lear," or in Russian, "you are liars," or in Ukrainian, "you are liars." Because Project 6327 of 20.04.2010 was registered by me as the subject of the legislative initiative, where I asked about the cessation of the requirements of section 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Committee and the dismissal of Ephraim from the responsibilities of the Supreme Council Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council in connection with the election of its 11 March as the head of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today, two months ago, the Law on the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Ephraim is being brutally violated. What's more, those things that weren't brought out, my project wasn't set up, or there might have been an alternative apology when the chick here praised the cock for praising the cookie. You know, I'm addressing you, colleagues -- you can't -- things like this are already qualified as abuse of office and exceeding the position of head of the Rules Committee. So please, let's say that. Did he fulfill his duties as chairman of the regulatory committee? No, I didn't. The Constitutional Court's decision that the national language is Ukrainian. You failed and failed today. One. The other one. As to the interpretation of article 10, open up. And the chairman is obliged to ensure that. The other one. How many accomplices are sitting in factions now? Why did the governors now vote? Why the Law on Rules, Amendments to the Law on Rules, the Law on Budgets, adopted with brutal violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council. That's why this position was supposed to be in opposition so everyone would understand. But this big lie comes up when everyone who wants to comes to the page and picks up Project 6327. And I want you to count 6023, 27 before 6345? Obviously earlier. So let us be objective, honest, and not say that someone resigned. After I registered the bill, there was no other way out. We forced it, we forced it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u53	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u54	Mr. Head, I would also like to address you. Why? Because as Head of the Supreme Council, you are obliged in this case to be both an arbitrator and to do ordinary things so that this does not happen again. I mean, this is a question that needs to be put off by the election of the committee heads and then put away separately. And the question of the release, of the liberation of Ephraim from office, was to be accepted, but with other motivation, in connection with the violation of the Law of the Law. So this has a question to do in the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u55	Who they called, I didn't.? Ah, Mikhayla Chechtcheva. There'll be Marmazov, there'll be a line. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u56	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, I have deep respect for you as a man. But I want to, but God sees, I don't want to. But I want to give you an example. That's why your party, where you're the leader, zeros one million percent of the ratings? And the Party of the Regions has 40 percent of the ratings? And I'll tell you why. That's because we're the truth! And the truth always wins! And you will sit with your lies below the plinth! And secondly, because you, Yushchenko brought you to Parliament and you betrayed him, yes! And go to Timoshenko! That's the second truth, yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u57	Dear folk, he did not call his first name! Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, last name, Yuri Anatoliyovich, distinguished colleagues, not named after him, that's the first time. Second, there is no replication. All of it. Dear colleagues! Let us move on to making decisions. The discussion is over. Please. Dear colleagues! Let us understand one thing that we need to find a basis for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work. They waited extremely long for suggestions about the Committee on Freedom of Speech. I want to say it again. What I told the faction leaders, I think we need to make arrangements for this committee to lead, say, Andrew Shevchenko. A professional and an experienced MP. At the same time, unfortunately, you cannot agree on how to exchange committees. And you don't want to do that. So I'm convinced that we don't need a process, we need a practical outcome. In view of the realities of today’s, respected colleagues, there is a political basis for talking about this problem, but let us agree that there is no basis in the legal order under article 84 of the Rules for the charges that have been made today regarding the violation of the Rules. And let's not humiliate each other. At the same time, the deputies insisted that the decisions they had made earlier be voted upon. I call those decisions on personnel issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the decision to elect Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich as head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I was reminded of it by MPs, and they were making the right decision. At the same time, I inform you that the National MP, the author of the draft decree, recalled it on April 14th. Hence, there is no basis for considering it. Let's move on, dear fellows. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin introduced the draft Order 20.04.2010 for the release of Alexander Sergiyovitch Efraemov from the post of head of the committee. [[Yuri Anatoliyovich, give your draft ruling]] [[Registration number 6327]] Regardless of the fact that this ruling is included in the ruling before the committee, the author of the draft decree insists that it be voted on earlier. Therefore, in order to maintain legal purity, I will put it to the vote, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be determined. There's no objection. So I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 6327. [[author Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin]] I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to identify itself. [[10:51:47]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Order rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 127, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 48, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 0, non-fractional – 0. Now, Your Honor, I will put to the vote a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Undersecretaries, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. " [[Registration number 6345]] Please vote. The supplement is the next decision, it's not this one. [[10:53:02]] For 244 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, on your behalf, I thank Alexander Sergiyovitch Efraemov for his long-standing leadership as not a simple committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now it's Project Decision. [[Registration number 6349]] There is a proposal that made in the proposal to add to this draft a position on the election of the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on European Integration of Ukrainian National Deputy Kurpil Stepan Volodymyrovich. This position by quota refers to the “BUT” faction, since the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchuk has moved to work on another committee, and then there is a vacancy. Is there no objection? In view of this addition, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 6349. Please vote. [[10:54:23]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now you have a proposal for a bill of amendments to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is the withdrawal of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk from office of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of the Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 6377. Please vote. [[10:55:20]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to decide on two draft parliamentary hearing orders: registration number 6260 and 6280. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Accordingly, the draft decree on the holding of parliamentary hearings “The Strategy for the Humanities Policy of modern Ukraine”. Here it is proposed on May 19, 2010. Obviously, we will have to agree on a date in view of the fact that there will be no time to prepare the matter. There's an offer: maybe under a reduced procedure? Not for you to speak, but for a brief discussion. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. This is a draft decree for parliamentary hearings, registration number 6260. Please vote. [[10:56:39]] For 265 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u58	Dear parliamentarians, dear voters! Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, is a representative of that political force that, according to recent research by Mr. Chechchev in the region's environment, has one million percent. Turning to the question that we've just been through, I would like to state that, if it's a matter of putting together some powers for the heads of some committees in order to make a redistribution, I'm prepared to take my position as chairman of the committee to make this sacrifice. If that's what it takes, I'm ready for it. Now let's get to it. In view of the fact that Mikli Tomenka is not present, if I am not mistaken, on his way out, and I am also the coauthor of this decision, let me make a brief presentation on the material that is being offered to you today. First of all, I would like to say that, of course, humanitarian policy is the foundation. It's fundamental. The fundamental factor is not only the internal policy of the state but, to some extent, its foreign policy. Today there are a lot of challenges to the humanitarian sphere of the world scale, I mean their globalization today, which comes from all sides, these are the stabilizing achievements today, which are, in fact, no longer working for the benefit of humanity, but for its harm. Ukraine is not some isolated organism in this world’s human system. Because of the obvious thing about us, by the way, and in that world of government that we got with you today, there's also a unit in the humanitarian sphere, and it's the right thing to do. But we are convinced that it would still be necessary at the general hearings, at the national hearings, to indicate some fundamental fundamental problems in the humanitarian sphere that we have. I'd like that. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u60	That's what I'm talking about. Allow me then and instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u61	Please. Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u62	At least a minute instead of Tomenko. Okay. I would like to say that today's painful problem, such as employment, migration processes, which we also need to discuss and draw the attention of society to. These are both health problems and health - care problems and a healthy lifestyle — a colossal amount of problems that we should discuss. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have read and we know the comments of the Rules Committee, and we know that only one hearing can be during the month, and we know that April-month is actually already busy. That's why we're making an oral proposal, and it's fixed and written here, and I can hand it over right now: this is to be held on June 16, 2010. The red one's still free. And if today the national MPs are consolidating and voting for such hearings to be held at the level of the U.K. and at the level of the Supreme Council, it could be done on June 16 at 15:00. That's why I would ask today not to see any subtexts here, but to bring this issue to a truly national level, to discuss it openly, to discuss it in a mode of discussion around the issues that are now, of course, applicable to every Ukrainian citizen, every Ukrainian citizen. I thank you for your attention and I hope that Parliament will support this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. I fixed it there, 30. Here's to the first one, I was thinking thirty. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the rapporteur is absolutely right that the humanitarian policy strategy of modern Ukraine needs to be discussed and discussed seriously. You will see, because the most controversial, the most diametric, the most radical views, are often radicalized by Parliament, not by what VAT will be, what will be the profit tax, or. Politics, economics, no! This is precisely where the various factions are represented, because there are real pragmatisms in both BUTE and our Ukraine, they vote and understand how the Government works. But there are humanitarian problems where there are truly polar views and they are very radicalizing and disrupting Parliament. It is very difficult to find a common position here, and we must gain a better understanding of the State's humanitarian policy strategy, otherwise we will not have a strong Power. We're not going to have a powerful Ukraine. Therefore, in order not to just talk, not just to accuse each other by bringing some arguments into the correctness or wrongness of that position, but perhaps we must seriously prepare ourselves and come to a concrete consolidated outcome for which the majority of Parliament voted. And since serious work is now being done in the Cabinet of Ministers, Anna Herman is leading the humanitarian direction of the President's Administration and so on. There is therefore a proposal, to seriously prepare this issue and to hold parliamentary hearings on this matter, in order to achieve, indeed, an effective outcome rather than a nuisance, in October. It won't work any sooner, it'll be just a chat room. In October, we can really come up with a consolidated outcome, once we have a unified opinion that can be put in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u65	Vladimir Karpuk, referring the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u66	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, this question is very serious from all angles of view, above all economics, by the way, if we are not talking about no importance here, the fact that it separates us all has to be resolved as quickly as possible. Now look at the humanitarian policy. Government, Ministry of Education, Minister of Education Tobacco assures us: independent testing is a good thing, we will implement. In fact, this year it is limited, and the following year it will be forgotten. Is there a need for Parliament to respond? You should. The Minister of Education Tobacco says that we need Russian to have all the higher education because foreign students suffer because we have fewer students, they don't come from Africa, they don't come to Asia because they speak Ukrainian. We take official statistics every year and the number of foreign students in Ukrainian universities is increasing. Where's the truth? We need to discuss, and surely we need to look at a minister who is lying. History textbooks, says the Minister of Education Tobacco, will be censored personally. Well, there must be historians, there's a parliament, there's a public, not a censorship of Ukrainian history. Do you need to talk about it? You should. I need to go now. Probably now, not October. Because there'll be other history books in October. Next, film translation. Officials from the government say that congregations are falling, attendance is falling. We're taking official statistics, and the congregations are increasing and the visits are increasing. Duplicate films in Ukrainian are good, and people like that, and the government wants to cancel. Shall we stretch it by October? Do you need to talk about it? We need to talk. Culture. Yesterday, the First Vice Prime Minister told us: there will be exchanges and even more Russian performers will come. Honorable colleagues, and the jobs of our actors, do you not need to duplicate movies and television? And what about our performers' jobs, not just known pops, rock, but those thousands that are needed on a simple stage? Should only foreigners sing here? Questions? Questions. Do we have to drag until October? No, it's not. Fellows, if you're thinking about the economy, I'm not talking about Ukraine anymore, then we need to hold these hearings on June 16th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u67	Please, Peter Simonck's microphone from the faction for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u68	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I join the proposal to move this issue to the fall. And in the autumn, after studying a number of problems, we are looking at a complex of issues that concern our colleagues. Why would I do that? I believe that today we need to take very seriously and deeply into account everything that is happening to us, including in the curriculums, because the history books that the speaker has just spoken about are written by Canadian citizens and distort the history that the Ukrainian people have experienced, and this is indeed necessary to correct. Experiments in education over the course of 18 years have led us to demobilize young people. Here American and other models have been applied to education and destroy our beautiful system of education, which is recognized worldwide as one that raises people. And I believe that today we need to look very seriously at those programmes that have textbooks, content and the same testing. And a faction of companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, who also insists on the factions who did not share in the discussion? None. The proposal, honourable colleagues, was from the committee to hold parliamentary hearings on June 16, 2010, at 3 p.m. traditionally and to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers accordingly by June 1. The second suggestion was to hold parliamentary hearings in the fall. So I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote first. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings “The Strategy for Humanities Policy of Modern Ukraine”, specifying the holding of 16 June parliamentary hearings and accordingly of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by June 1st to submit the necessary parliamentary hearing documents. [[Registration number 6260]] Taking these proposals into account, I'm putting the bill to the vote. [[11:08:19]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then I ask you, let's still vote, well, at least in the fall, let's define the month. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the proposal made by the Party of the Regions is, not even ours, not ours, but ours, and it's not a committee to move it to the fall, as I understand it, and Peter Simonenko supported it. Because of this, let's do it this way: in October, we'll do the hearing. But you just have to look, I'm not ready right now, which is the day. But the October month, let's say it's already autumn. Let's vote for that. To be completely, well, that's a shame, listen, society! We're completely throwing away completely humanitarian politics, the fundamental absolute principle of any policy, both internal and external. So many problems, so many questions! Why are we afraid to discuss them?Oh, my God! But this will not divide, nor will it unite even more society. For it will be evident that we have our heads on our shoulders and have our thoughts that can unite us. That's smart and normal. I don't understand why I shouldn't vote for it! Stand up, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, such an offer. Conduct parliamentary hearings in October 2010. Paragraph 2: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the necessary material concerning parliamentary hearings. With this in mind, I'm voting on a draft ruling to approve it as a ruling. [[Registration number 6260]] I would like to reiterate that in October 2010, Parliamentary hearings and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be held in an orderly manner to provide the necessary materials. With such clarifications, I put the draft to the vote as a decision. Please vote. [[11:10:31]] For 386 Decision taken. I would like to announce a draft resolution on Parliamentary hearings on "Economic reforms: reality and expectations of Ukrainian business". [[7 July 2010]] [[Registration number 6280]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please. Mikola Kravchenko from the committee. Dear colleagues, please consider this issue also through a reduced procedure. No objections? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:11:21]] For 283 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u72	And I'm going to report it on a short notice. A few words on the subject of ours. Each of the deputies in their statements, in practice, faces problems with the relationship of power, business, the legislative framework for business, licensing, the authorization system and so on. In this regard, the Committee, members of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship on 14 April 2010, submitted a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on “Improving the business climate by improving legislation in the area of licensing and licensing” on 2 June. The Committee has made a comment. In that connection, the members of the Committee adopted that comment and made a proposal. Consider this issue on 7 July 2010 and change the theme “Economic reforms: reality and expectations of Ukrainian business”. I've got everything on the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u73	Colleagues, report complete. Is there a need to change your mind? If there is, please sign up. I'd like to put your name on the board of the National Deputies. Mikhailo Chechetov and Alla Alexandrovska And I'm asking the National Deputies not to open a newspaper in the session room so wide that they can see how madly we take care of their problems. Well, somehow the working environment needs to be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! I think it's absolutely right for the President of the country, Viktor Yanukovic, when he said that we should not unite to fight each other, there was opposition to the coalition, a coalition against the opposition. And maybe all the people of common sense, all the policies that are on different sides of political, ideological barricades, I think they should be called rivals only during elections. And in the middle of the season, political friends, political opponents. And we must follow the example of developed democratic States. Since the same United States of America, when there is no fierce struggle, on the next day, the loser candidate for the President comes in without waiting for the announcement, shakes hands and says that yesterday we were rivals and today you are my President. And I'm willing to lay my shoulders, work with you to the United States of America for the good of the people. That's why we have now, absolutely right, Viktor Yanukovic, that we must unite against one common enemy. It's the fight against poverty. It's the fight against crisis, with poverty. This calls for the consolidation of the intellectual capacity and professional capacity of various political parties. Both economists and financiers and bankers. And that, of course, only wins the country. That is, we must unite in the direction of the country's economic recovery. And I think this is where the approaches can be found both among the opposition and among the coalition. Because there are pragmatists both there and there, there are professional economists both there and there. That is why we must hold a parliamentary hearing and consider and speak. Indeed, there is a common understanding of economic reforms. But I guess I was getting ready. And spend it somewhere in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u75	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u76	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u77	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the Company's faction will support these parliamentary hearings, on the basis that, as such, such effective reforms have not taken place. When it comes to the effectiveness of economic reforms, the first, in response to the question: “Did restructuring happen?” – “No” – “Is there an economic reform that would change the performance of which or was the characteristics of the economy in 1991?” Today, Ukraine’s economy is producing up to 70 per cent of what was at the 1991 level. Next. Up to 80 per cent of today's core funds. The gap in science and production has been enormous, and virtually today Ukraine is losing its perspective on basic industries such as electronics, machinery and construction. They're practically getting to the handle. It is therefore necessary today to prepare very seriously for these parliamentary hearings and to raise the issue with the ribs, first and foremost to draw and naturally to the analysis of the State Property Fund, which will answer the question today, how parts of public property are used, how they work for the State or work for the pockets of individual dealers and of the same clans that have practically captured certain enterprises and entire segments of the economy. Today, we must look as far as possible, using information from the State Property Fund, and on how our property is leased, and how privatization obligations are being fulfilled, i.e., these hearings should, in the view of the Company faction, give rise to order in terms of law and criminal accountability. Because we have millions of people working and looking for a piece of bread abroad today, not working here in Ukraine, based on what these reforms should give if we are talking about economic reform. And a conclusion. The Company's faction today offers to take into account that Ukraine's almost economic sovereignty of independence is under threat today, which means that Ukraine will lose political independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, who else insists on factions that have not come forward? One minute, Oleg Zarubinsky and Oleg Lazko. And because you have to write it down. In one minute, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is a case where the name is good enough. Look at the second part, here more of my predecessors were talking about reforms, and the second part was worded “the reality and the expectation of the Ukrainian business” because it is assumed that the reality is one and the expectation is another. And there's a lot of evidence that there's a really different expectation, because in 2009, the underprofit made up Ukrainian businesses, Ukrainian businessmen, 40 percent compared to 2008. It's very serious. And one more moment. I think these hearings have really, as the predecessor said, stimulate business activity in Ukraine, because small and medium-sized business access to infrastructure, including credit infrastructure, resource infrastructure in Ukraine is not fair, unfair and minimal compared to big business. And without that, there will never be a middle class in Ukraine. And no average.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u82	Class, and this is an axiom, there will never be any political or economic stability. So the correct title, I think the consequences of these hearings have to be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u83	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u84	You know, dear colleagues, it seems to me that business activity in Ukraine should primarily be activated by our legislative work. Because any hearing, they got together, they talked and they forgot about it. What about the billing work? Because it's only by creating a legislative field that's business-friendly that we can achieve what's normal. For example, yesterday, the parliamentary majority did not support the draft Small and Medium Business Promotion Act -- the author of this bill is me -- where a number of benefits were foreseen and facilities for small and medium-sized enterprises. The pro-powered majority doesn't vote. The budget they accepted raised taxes for small and medium -sized businesses. Changes to excise legislation actually kill the wine industry, depriving 600,000 people of their jobs. Here are the specifics. I mean, it was supposed to be for these hearings -- let's adopt those laws, vote for those laws that would allow businesses in Ukraine to work. From our hearings, I think they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u85	George Carmazin, one minute, in connection with the fact that there was no faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u86	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I was denied the right to repeat. I want to address one well-known politician with this, and I want to say that today the Jurya Carmazin Block is represented by over a thousand deputies in Ukraine. I'd like to be the block of Mikhail Chechtov, and I'd like to be represented by one of the deputies. I'm going to reply to him with a lineup about, there, millions and so forth of popularity. Project 6280. Obviously we need to listen to the question: “Economic reforms: reality and business expectations”. There are no reforms. This budget is now limited to the function of the Court of Auditors, in violation of article 98 of the Constitution: it is clearly stated what the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office should do in violation of article 121 of the Constitution, is limited to the right to judicial protection. This budget now takes away VAT for five years, just changes into bonds. And what they said wasn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u88	Thank you. Now it will never come back. Thus, the expectations of the Ukrainian business end with the number of ships that do not come and order today on a raid in Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Supreme Council regulation on parliamentary hearings on “Economic reforms: the reality and expectation of Ukrainian business” as a decision. [[Registration number 6280]] [[11:23:10]] For 132 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? In the fall? Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We do not object to this ruling and to hold parliamentary hearings, but, again, seriously prepare. There was a proposal for September, September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, don't you want to vote? The bill was rejected. What? Well, Oleg Lazko, please, out of procedure of what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u92	Mr. Chechetov, would you please specify on September of what year do you propose to listen to the problems of the Ukrainian business? After you've destroyed the business with this budget? After there is no small or medium - size enterprise left in the country, will you listen to their problems? This is the Ukrainian business during the election you promised tax holidays, various benefits, preferences. Where are these promised things? So you don't just give it away by taking people's last, and you don't even allow Parliament to discuss these problems in order to get the whole country's attention on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u93	No, they didn't call names! Alla Alexandrovska, please, and we will. Names weren't called. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I would like to speak to you on the basis of the vote that has taken place. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think I should go back to this issue and vote again. It's a very serious subject. The future depends on what priorities will be developed in Ukraine in terms of industrial development. Taxes can be increased and money can be given to the poor, industry can be developed, new technologies can be introduced -- it's a very serious issue. Therefore, we cannot refuse to consider it here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, of course, it'll be right in September. Moreover, in September we will return and clearly amend the State Budget Act. I will therefore ask you to return to the vote on this issue, given that there are proposals to hold these parliamentary hearings on this subject in September 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on “Economic reforms: the reality and expectation of Ukrainian business” in September 2010. Please vote. [[11:25:54]] For 369 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Treatment, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 24.02.2010, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. The correspondent is Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster Sergey Glazunov. Please. Dear colleagues, they suggest that we consider a reduced procedure. And there's no shorter procedure here. Your report and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u96	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of Regions, representative of the President of the Supreme Council. I would like to emphasize that the President supports this law as a whole. His idea is correct, necessary. But there is one point to be taken into account, and this law can be signed with its entry into force. What is involved in this observation and what it is. In a new edition of article 1, paragraph 11, of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, delete the words “transporting animals in a way that results in suffering and stress of animals”. In general, this law applies to article 1 where all definitions of cruel conduct go, what circumstances are involved, and so on and so forth. But with regard to transportation there, given that there is criminal responsibility for cruel conduct and administrative responsibility, without criteria, we may be exposed to abuse in the application of this standard. That's why the President proposes that the law should be deleted, and then, in the future, it can be regulated either by sub-legal acts, where there is what is, and what needs to be done when the standards provided for in Article 11 on the transport of animals, because this matter is regulated by law, are not respected. Or in the law itself, there are certain rules for settling this issue by giving clear criteria. So, Your Honor, I urge you to support the President's remarks and to vote on the law in order for it to enter into force, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a question? Please sign up if you don't have one, so don't write it down. Please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u98	Dear Yuri Romanovich! I understand that this is a very relevant law, and this is not a humanitarian policy, not an economic reform that is already in time, but which has been waiting and voting for economic reforms for a certain part of people, and this is usually a necessary law and possible suggestions that are right, we understand the President's love for animals, especially those conditions that are created in the Hunting Farm "The Succeed," God forbid that such policies continue, but I think we need to go back to the real things.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u99	Thank you for your input. I want to inform you that the veto was imposed by President Viktor Andriovic Yushchenk of Ukraine. And now that there's no veto mechanism, I'm going to report it. At the same time, I would like to confirm that it is important for the President, including for humanitarian policy to manifest itself in a humane way towards animals, that is the norm and European civilised behaviour and all the more Ukrainian civilized behaviour. Thank you for the support of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u100	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u101	Your Honor, I have an address for you. Obviously, from the point of view of the entire group of deputies, this law requires further development and reprocessing in general. What's the plan? Of course, we need to be concerned about animals, not allowing harsh behavior. But there are such perks that they will not be able to transport animals at all, to work fighting, and the uncle will not be able to manage the livestock he feeds for his family and so on and so forth. Thus, this law is written and adopted with a lack of well - thought - out standard. And to this day they can do a great deal of bad things in livestock management.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u102	Thank you for your question and your comments. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in any case, cruel treatment of animals is unacceptable, which is the content of the law. And I think that's the idea that the authors of this bill were making. With regard to animal production and the conditions associated with the manufacturing process, this law does not limit it, but it only emphasizes that all these conditions must be done in a humane way, without causing suffering to animals, that is the main thing. [[I understand what you mean.]] And in principle, in the law itself, this issue is settled, and I think that even bylaws will continue to develop and clarify it. But as far as transportation is concerned, this is a question that has a gap and has a fairly arbitrary interpretation that could potentially be. That's why the president invites me to exclude these.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u103	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u104	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I have a question and a brief reflection. Of course, the law must be passed. I don't agree, because we have the documents signed by both Yushchenko and the Communist faction today, so let's say that we say that today, or we don't support it. But the question is another. Let us consider, first of all, what this is and will be done by its simple man. In what way do we say "cock" today, "supplies or in a bursque" to a simple person. What's he doing with a pig that he's growing her house for, a pig? To feed the family. How does a pig get on a table? Do you understand how? Like business, they grow goose livers. He's being coerced, the feeding technology is appropriate. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose now, given these problems, all of them, and they are simply not listed and taken into account here in this law, but for some time not to remove it from the agenda, but simply to postpone it. And the fact that Yushchenko only signed one language here, I think Victor Fedorovich is right, so let's say, see if he agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u105	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich, for your comments and comments. I don't think we should emphasize the name of the President, it's an institution that we should respect. And the only thing I'd like to focus on is that it's not illegal to be an animal. I will read what this law is about, since it is 1 article: “An animal’s ill - treatment is beating, bullying, bullying, exasperating animals, violating zootechnical, hygienic, veterinary, and animal welfare rules, deliberately inflicting harm on animals, harassing one another. I mean, when it comes to chicken, it's nobody. I read this rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u106	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u107	Deliberate abuse. Well, I don't think the villagers are deliberately bullying the chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u108	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u109	Your Honor, I have to say that the people's MP Simonenko and the people's deputy Vaschuk are absolutely right. We need to make appropriate changes to this bill, and we need to make clear waterline, and we need to make a distinction between what you're putting into the notion of these animals whose animals are animals. Otherwise it's really going to be that Grandma in the village won't cut the chicken. Take that into account! Or training dogs and stuff. So there's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u110	Thank you. I want to speak to Peter Mikolaiovich, whom I highly respect, to all the national MPs, I am doing my job. The president is doing his job. We give arguments, including by coming out of international commitments made by Ukraine. And I don't know if it's going to be a good signal to the world that Ukraine, without supporting this kind of law, doesn't want to humanize this area of animal treatment. Here we have to consider, this is a political issue. And each faction must see what it will look like in the eyes of both citizens and the international community. At the same time, I emphasize that this law does not provide for the attraction of responsibility, both administrative and criminal, in the case of animals. And our animalry has nothing to do with the cruelty and abuse of animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u112	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Yuri Romanovich, I understand that it is necessary to protect animals from harsh behavior. Please tell me I'm about to receive a list of citizens who are asking. What if people have been brutally deceived in elections now? They promised a minimum pension of one and a half thousand, and they gave 800. And now there's nothing to feed that animal. And that animal is hungry today. Now I'm sending this to the faction of the Party of Regions to keep an eye on their promises. I can't do anything else to protect animals today because people don't have the money to buy what to eat. How do you think that today animals don't eat because they don't eat people and because these irresponsible statements were made during the elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u113	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for asking. And even more so, thank you for being concerned about both citizens and animals who do not eat. But at the same time, I want to tell you that this law has already been passed in the Supreme Council. And the faction you represent is "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense," 39 votes in favour. In general, the Supreme Council voted by 259 votes in favour. So it's really just about the President's proposal to delete two words where it's about transporting animals from that law that the Supreme Council has already approved. So, as I continue your logic, Peter Mikolaiovich's logic, I say that in situations where it can harm animals or citizens who do animal farming, it is necessary to remove the norm. And now you're telling me that this law that the Supreme Council has already voted does not need to be passed. This is the will of the Supreme Council, but the President is doing his job, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u114	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u115	Well, that's the last question. Let's go through it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u116	Mr. Yuri, I'm not jealous of your destiny today to report a law that, in principle, was not prepared by you, but earlier. But I do have a question. There are several positions that relate to transportation. These are the last of the experiences when we saw 12 or 14 camels die on the border with Kyrgyzstan who were not missed because of circumstances. And there are accompanying documents. Does this law reflect the need for an exemption from the customs territory of one country to another without sufficient documents? So that the animals don't die from climate change, from the fact that there's no food, to the more faithful feed for them, that they can't be properly watered, cared for and so on. I'm more concerned about that. Because animals have been killed lately. Or Chernewsky promised to feed the elephant Boy, he stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u117	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for that question. And I want to quote that rule that remains in the law if it is now voted. “Wonderful behaviour, including violations of zootechnical, zoo-sanitary, sanitary, veterinary and animal-maintenance rules”. So in transport, it's also their maintenance. So what you're talking about will just bring this law back to normal. And if that's the last question, I want to welcome you all. Today's the great festival, the Lord's Ascension. Therefore, God allows us to have an agreement in our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u118	Please, the committee's decision. Sergei Mikolaiovich Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, on February 11, this year the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct. The president of Ukraine commented on this law on the motives expressed by the reporter. The main scientific and expert office believes that the removal from the definition of “hot treatment of animals” of the words “transporting animals in a way that results in suffering and stress of animals” is inappropriate, since article 11 of the law contains clear rules on the transport of animals. The chief legal authority called for a draft law without any notice. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at its meeting considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the law and decided to agree with them and proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I will first put to the vote the president's proposal, which the committee recommends to take into account. If it is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will put to the vote the adoption of the law as a whole. Is the offer understood? You have been given an amendment by the President of Ukraine: “From a new edition of article 1, paragraph 11, of the Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, delete the words ‘transporting animals in a way that results in suffering and stress of animals’. The committee took this amendment into account. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[11:43:51]] For 207 Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote on. No, I can put on a return, a return to consideration. If you don't support me, I'll put the veto vote on it. If the veto is not overrun, then the law will be rejected. That's why I put to the vote in such a sequence: a return to the Ukrainian law. [[Registration number 1264]] Please vote. [[11:44:51]] For 210 The decision is not taken. I am proposing a second motion to vote on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct. [[11:45:25]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, so the Supreme Council of Ukraine has exhausted those debts that were linked to the veto of the previous President of Ukraine, yes, the previous yes, that's what I'm saying. There's a signature here. Dear colleagues, we need to consult. There is a proposal, not an offer, but a demand for two MP factions, the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” to announce a recess and call for a Conciliation Council to consider the bill. [[6109]] Maybe you'll agree to a proposal to have us postpone this bill with you now, and we'll consider the bill next to go. [[6109]] [[3231]] There'll be a break at 12 o'clock. Then meet with the faction leaders at the Conciliation Council for the participation of representatives of the Justice Committee, the Chief Legal Authority and the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss the issue. No objections? Then I announce at 12 o'clock a meeting of the Conciliation Council with the participation of the factions' leaders, the representation of the Justice Committee, the President's representative and representatives of the legal services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I now announce for consideration the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 209 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[about the use of funds]] [[Registration number 3231]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Bebezenko Valerij Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u121	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on Amendments to Article 209 of the Ukrainian Land Code was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 January 2010. The bill proposes to channel funds in order to compensate for the loss of agricultural and forestry production, in addition to the objectives of land development and land protection, improvement, and land inventory, which will contribute to the identification of lands and arrangements that are subject to development and improvement. During the time that followed the adoption of the bill as a basis, the committee had received 6 comments from legislators, the Ukrainian National Deputies, from whom it was proposed to take 3 comments, and 3 comments were proposed to be rejected, since they proposed that the funds should be allocated to urban documentation projects that were in no way linked to the protection and improvement of land. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made its observations on the law's expiration date, namely, from 1 January 2011, which is something to agree with. In view of what has been said, we propose a bill of registration number 3231 to be adopted on second reading and in general as a law that takes into account the observations of the General Legal Office: on the application of the Act of 1 January 2011. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, who insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? And there, I take it, was a committee proposal that the law takes effect as of January 1, 2011. With this amendment in mind, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending article 209 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[about the use of funds]] [[Registration number 3231]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u123	Please be supportive. [[11:49:44]] For 212
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u124	To 212. Huh? Come back? Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to return to consideration. I will put to the vote the draft Law 3231. Please vote. [[11:50:15.]] For 234 We're back. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law as a law that takes into account the amendment introduced as of January 1, 2011, the registration number of bill 3231. Please vote. [[11:50:47]] For 237 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4183]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Vasilko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellows, dear Head! A bill amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act is being tabled for your consideration. The bill is intended to amend and supplement the technical and legal character of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act with the aim of bringing it into compliance with the Ukrainian Civil Protection Act. The introduction of ownership and subordination, regardless of the form of ownership or use of at least one high - risk object or explosive object, to maintain public or public or voluntary fire protection. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster received eight proposals from legal entities. Of these, six are counted, part one is counted, one is rejected. A number of comments were made by the chief judicial office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following points apply. The Ukrainian Fire Safety Act was adopted in 1993. Today, it does not conform to the rules of civil, agricultural codes. But this does not mean that we should not gradually improve it. Let us give a protocol commission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop a new edition of the Fire Safety Act. The drafting of the new law will be incorporated into the Code of Civil Protection. Support for the Committee of National Deputies of Ukraine, Vaszczuk Katerina Timothy and Bevza Valerija Ananiyovich, as far as I know, want to call off this amendment. The proposed bill allows fire protection of strategically important objects to be identified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is about nuclear power plants first. I would like to point out that the Committee on Budget Affairs has concluded that the bill under registration number 4183 will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the state and local budgets. In this regard, I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the committee’s decision and to adopt the law as a whole. The report is closed, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who insists on reform? Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter! A rule, new article 5, is introduced in the text of the law contrary to the Rules. the content of “Audit from Fire Safety”. This is amendment number one and it's counted by the committee. I think it's an extra burden on the business that we care about, at all. This is the first time. Secondly, this is a pure violation of the Rules, because we cannot change those articles that have not been accepted. So I would ask you, Mr. Head, to make this amendment, if the committee, I don't know if you can call it off now, obviously not. Then to ask for confirmation, since it is obviously in violation of the Rules it is such a lobbyist nature, then I ask the room not to support this amendment and then you can consider this law, because it goes beyond common sense, people still have to pay for fire safety audits for every enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I'm putting to the vote amendment number one to confirm it. [[11:55:20]] For the The amendment is not supported, it is not counted. Is there any other insistence on other amendments? Please, Yuri Carmazin, call the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u129	There's also a question in the second amendment, and I'd like us and the second amendment to ask for confirmation. Why? It complements part of the sentence: “A list of high - risk objects that are explosive to ensure the mandatory functioning of a public unit. On the basis of the contract, the typical agreement on the provision of public service from the organization and the provision of fire protection and the arrangement for the formation of the contract price shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.” I mean, aside from the funds that are being allocated to you as the manager of the company, they're going to offer you an agreement, if you refuse to sign, you know what happens. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is once again a burden on businesses that are barely surviving in the official, I have a part, not in the shadow. So I firmly believe that this should also be against this amendment, i.e. not to confirm it. I ask you to put her to the vote for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u130	I bet on the vote of Amendment 2. Please identify yourself. [[11:56:54]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, in general, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fire Safety of Ukraine. [[on Civil Protection Services]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine is requested to determine by vote. [[11:57:30.]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal to re-read the bill. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u131	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u132	Again, I said yes. [[11:57:56]] For-0 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! The reporter, Alexander Bondar, says that after the second bill, it takes one minute, it's very short. Do you mind if we take a look at it before the break? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u133	I'll be there in three minutes. This is a second reading of the bill "Recovering the ability of the borrower or recognizing him as bankrupt" (Senchenka's Bill). All the amendments made by the representatives of the Party of the Regions, Harry and Voropeyeva, have been taken into account. Except for one other Harry, who's rejected. If he insists, we will consider it. So I propose that the committee should support this bill. And I'm reminding you that he's primarily making demands for the wages of businesses that are bankrupt, that is to say, to increase social protection for the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, does no one insist on their amendments? Oh, no? I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. [[on the timeliness of the satisfaction of debt claims from wages]] [[Registration number 1105]] Please be sure. [[11:59:34]] For 109 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected, since it was already rereading the second reading, it had twice been rereaded. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. The heads of the deputy factions, representatives of the Justice Committee, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll continue our work at 12:30. The first question will be the appointment and release of judges, and then the plan will be followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room and let's continue our work. With regard to the Conciliation Council meeting, honourable colleagues, I will inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the turn comes to this issue. Just as they will then have the right to speak on the basis of their position as break initiators. Is there no objection? Now, the question of the election and release of judges is under review. And invite the deputies to the session room, and invite the national deputies to the session room. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Booth Yuri Anatoliyovich. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u136	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meetings on 28 April and 12 May considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis, and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the release of judges. You're all familiar with the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: [[Draft Supreme Council Regulation No. 6361]] The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of the Princess Victoria Pavlovna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Konovalova Victoria Anatoliyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Kushnerov Tetjan Babikin; The Red Cross District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Litvinenko, Valentin Petrovna; The Military District Court of the Volin district of Fazan Olga Zinovievna; The Solonian District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Slokvenka Hennady Petrovich; The Saxegan District Court of the Horn of Kree Dnipropetrov district of Bondar Jan Mikolayevna; The Dobropelian Regional Court of the Donetsk district of Canurna Olga Demyanovna Anakiyev City Court of the Donetsk district of Berezkin, Olen Volodymyrovna; The Kirov City Court of the Donetsk district of Karaban Inna Ivanovna; The Krasnolyman City Court of the Donetsk region of Tkacheva Alexandro Mikolaiovich; The Torez City Court of the Donetsk district of Arapina Natalia Eugenyevna; The Mikitov District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Dubovic Ruslan Evgenovich; Ordjonikidev District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk Region, Kurbanov Natal Mikolayevna; The Primorski District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk District of Juba Marianna Victorian; Andrushew District Court of the Žitomir District of Palasjuk Vera Mikolayevna; The Corestinian District Court of the Žitomir district of Volkov Natalia Jakovna; Korosten City Court of the Zhitomir district of Shulga Oksana Mikolayevna; Novograd Volinsky District Court of the Zitomir district of Suslovnik Mikol Grigorovitch; The Vilnius District Court of Zaporozhye district of Kofanova Andrija Valentinović; The Zaporozhye District Court of Thunder Inna Borisovna; Kamyansko-Dniprovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u137	Just a minute. The Vilnius District Court of the Kofanov District, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u138	Thunder.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u139	Thunderbolt, okay. Let's put a mark on it. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u140	Kamyansko-Dniprovovsky District Court of Zaporozhye District Commission Natalia Ivanovna; Orikhov District Court of Zaporozhye District of Sterbán Larissa Sergiyovna; The Rogatin District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Mogila Ruslan Grigorovich; The Rožnetov district court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Bejk Andrija Mihajlovich; Irpine City Court of Kiev Kaftanova Vitalia Volodymyrovich; Mironov district court of Bibu District Yuri Volodymirovich; Novgorodkova District Court of Kirovograd District of Pasičnik Dmitry Ivanovich; Lysicán city court of Luhansk district of Fastovec Vitali Mikolaiovich; The Slovenian Serb District Court of Luhansk, Timinsky Viacheslav Volodymirovich; The Yellow District Court of Lugansk Kalashnik Volodymyr Leonidovic; The Arbusinian District Court of the Mikolai district of Kologryu Tetjana Mikolayevna; Sniguryov District Court of the Mikolai district of Lysenko Mikola Evgenović; The Lenin District Court of Mikolayeva Kostüchenka Hennady Stanislavovic; The Lubashiv District Court of Odessa District of Darmakuk Tetjan Petrovna; Karlovy Vashilovich, District Court of Poltava, Cholán Mikhail Vasilovich Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a denial. Cholan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u141	Who denies Cholan? Okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u142	The ominous district court of Poltava district of Omelchenko Irina Ivanovna; The Pyratitinian District Court of Poltava County, Corsun Oksana Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u143	It's about Corsun Oksana Mikolayevna, isn't it? Okay. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u144	The Chutov District Court of Poltava District, Lana Jan Alexandrovna; The Kostopil district court of the district of Gripich, Lillia Androkovna, Andronikowna; Kuznetsov City Court of the Kovtunovich Mikola Ivanovich District; Provincial District Court of Nazaruk Volodymyr Antonović; The Putivl district court of the district of Tolstoy Oleg Alexiyovich; The engaged district court of Suma Levchenko Tetjana Afanasyevna; Kovpakov District Court of Suma Kotenko Olga Anatoliyevna The Lenin District Court of the city of Harkov Olkhovsky Evgen Borisovich; Bilozer District Court of the Herson district of Simchuk Sergey Borisovich; The Novochakov City Court of the Hersonian District of Vedeshkin, Yulia Viktorovna; The City District Court of Cherka district of Chernenko Volodymyr Alexandrovich; Mankovsky District Court of the Cherkas region of Igor Dmitrovic; Tallinn District Court of the Cherkas region of Frolova Alexander Leonidovich; The Christian District Court of the Cherka district of Olijnik Mikol Fedorovich; The Kelmenack District Court of the region of Tleshman Oleg Vasilovich; Ishchenka Igor Volodymyrovich, the first-level district court in Chernovci; Korzuk Tetjana Petrovna, District Court of Corzuk, District Court of Montenegro; Righteous District Court of Kiev Collegiate Svetlana Victorian; The Lenin District Court of Sevastopol, Precedence of Alexander Ivanovna Please support Project Decree No. 6361 except.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, there are no other considerations? Then we remove from the draft decree registration number 6391: Thunder Inna Borisovna is the Zaporozhye District Court of Zaporozhye Region; Cholan Mikhail Vasilovich Karlovyevsky District Court of Poltava Region and Korsun Oksana Mikolayevka is the Pyratin District Court of Poltava Region. Please, Easy Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u146	Judge Korsuk of the Corsuk district of Korop, there is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u147	And we're removing the name Korsuk Tetyana Petrovna from the Corsuk District Court of Chernigow. In the light of these deletions, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 6391]] Please vote. [[12:43:22]] For 310 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we will welcome you when we have decided on all matters of appointment. Thunderbolt Inna Borisovna, please come to the microphone. National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction. Please, your warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u148	I submitted to the committee the suggestion that the committee should deal more with the work of Judge Gromov because a complaint had been received from a Harlan citizen. Judge Gromov has deprived her and her brother of her inheritance. And when I needed a job profile on Thunder, it turned out to be very negative. After that, I also asked Sergei Vasilevich Kiwalov to postpone and discuss it with the committee. I understand the number of judges who have come forward, and you may not always be able to make a qualitative assessment of their professional activities. On this point, I request that the consideration of Judge Gromov's approval be deferred and that I return after the Committee has considered its work in more detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u149	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u150	Regarding the judge of the Gromova Committee, he unanimously decided to recommend. We didn't have a complaint at the time, we didn't have a complaint on April 29th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u151	Yes. Please, another Borisovna Thunder. Just a minute. What can you say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u152	I don't know anything about this complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, in order for us to make an impartial objective decision, there is such a request that the committee be instructed before the next plenary meeting to study the matter and report separately to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No objections? None. Thank you. Now Cholan Mikhailo Vasilovich Karlovych District Court of the Poltav region. Who had the warnings? A stork, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u154	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I asked for the removal from the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges for the post of Judge of the Karlovy Vultavian District Court of Cholan Mikhail Vasiljevic and not to support his re-election of the judge indefinitely. I am well placed in this area, as in the fourth High Council of Ukraine, I was duly elected as a national deputy from this district. Regrettably, under the direction of the judge in the Karlovy region, there was an opinion of full involvement, injustice of the district court, inaction to seek truth and justice. As President of the Karlovy Regional Court, he has personally ruled on a number of occasions in favour of one of the local agar groups, which often illegally rent agricultural land, misuse payments to people for money for pies, and wrongfully confiscate the property of enterprises. For example, when a civil claim for the return of a complete property complex of the Karlovy V.U.F.F.F.F. from a foreign illegal property that was sold through the sale of documents, he refused to grant the factory the application for action to secure the claim and was thus given the opportunity. [[criminal proceedings have been instituted in this case]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u155	Please complete your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u156	To the illegal acquirer, the contested property shall be resold several times. I have applied to the Supreme Council of Justice, the Disciplinary Commission of Judges, for the verification and due legal evaluation of the actions of Judge Cholon Mikhail Vasiljevic. Please do not support the re-election of Mr. Cholon Mikhail Vasilevich as judge of the Karlovy Vulnerable Court of Poltav Region indefinitely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u157	Mikhail Vasilovich Cholan, what can you say about the claims just presented by the Ukrainian national deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, such a complaint was named by the national deputy Leluka, and the case was before the Karlovy V. District Court, which was considered by me. But there was no decision on the matter, but there was an application for a lawsuit. I was denied the satisfaction of the claim, since the Combikorm factory’s application was considered by the Master’s Court. The household court in Poltava district ruled, then the Kyiv Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Commerce. Next, 27 numbers, I've considered this application, but I've learned that the 28th is going to be considered in the Supreme Court. And when the case was postponed until the next day, indeed, the Supreme Court overturned all decisions on the matter and returned it to the Poltava Economic Court again. Therefore, in order not to violate anyone's right not to impose arrests, because the case was tried in the household court and was returned again, I was denied the application for a suit. The application was brought before the Court of Appeal and left in effect. So the judgment was upheld. The case was also closed because the representative did not appear at the trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u159	The committee's decision on this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u160	The committee’s decision was taken without taking into account the complaints that came from our colleague, the national deputy Leluch. So there is also an offer to be consistent and to postpone consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u161	Is there no objection? Then, until the next plenary week, with the commission of the committee to study all the claims presented by the judge and to make objective decisions, objective recommendations in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Corsun Oksana Mikolayevna, Pyratin district court of Poltav region Who had any comments? National Deputy Gordienko, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u162	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and my distinguished colleagues! At the personal reception of the citizens, I was contacted by the people of the Pyratin district, who, on the question of Judge Corsun Oksana Mikolayovna. I'm giving you some help: From three years and ten months in office, this judge has been canceled and 54 court decisions have been changed. Today there are serious problems with the declaration of the candidate’s income for the post in 2010. I believe that we need to approach the qualifications objectively, or can a judge whose decision has been overturned, 54 in court cases in three years, embrace this position, or do it meet the qualifications?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u163	Oksana Mikolayevna Korsun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u164	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I want to report that this information does not match the reality of the decisions I have made that have been cancelled. Regarding the declaration, I also reflected everything in the declaration as it really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u165	Please, the committee. The thought of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u166	The committee decided to recommend it. But we also had no information on the statistics that were transmitted. Therefore, the proposal is to reject, delay, and test as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u167	So let us, fellow believers, make an objective decision. Paul Sulkowski. Is that what this is about? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u168	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to express this vision. Believe me, the committee that's reporting now as a deputy, believe me, that an extremely fair decision is being made by judges in Ukraine and so on. But there are judges who long ago need to be pushed to the neck so that they don't get close to the positions of judges who have disgraced the practical system of justice in Ukraine. So if there are any fundamental facts, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I very much ask you not to vote until you have carefully studied the situation. And so without everyone else, I'm making an offer, these are all the candidates who are starting to justify themselves on the bed today, that they are, you see, right, but not the right national MP with the people of Ukraine who are going to the reception and asking for protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u169	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u170	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” faction. I completely understand that there can be different people in the judges. But I understand that there are different people in the MPs. But I cannot understand the Ukrainian National Deputy, who is in grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and publicly slanders the judiciary, violating above all the status of the judge, the constitutional rule on the status of the judge. You think that's what the entire Ukrainian people are listening to. What do you do? A total discredit and a splinter of judicial power in Ukraine? And then you want the judge to have the power to defend the rights that your authority is violating. So this is another proof that today there is the formation of dictatorship, authoritarian power in Ukraine through a splinter, including the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Similarly, judging from the moods of the audience, we will not make a positive decision, and we can break a person's fate. So let's ask the committee to come back to the committee and make the appropriate proposals, just as I ask the national MPs, if you have any warnings, please go with them to the committee, we know in advance who they will discuss, the names of which judges and where you will find all these questions, in the presence of the judge. And I fully support Yuri Klukkowski, so let's first bring the order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then we'll teach the judges how to do justice. We're adjourning the question of Corsun Oksana Mikolayevna. Now Korsuk Tetjana Petrovna, District Court of Coroner, Montenegro. Oleg Lazko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u172	Oleg Lazko, reverend Vladimir Mihajlovich! I want to look Aunt Petrovni in the eye and remind her of a case she was considering a few years ago, a peasant from the village of Nehayevka, the district of Korop. These peasants were entrenched as in royal times, a local agricultural enterprise, owners, and leased land contracts for 30 years, and grandparents, who for 80 years seemed to have leased their land rations. And these peasants came to court to break these leases that they didn't sign, and you know how those poor villagers fool us. To this day, residents of the village of Nehayevka, the owners of the mines, did not get the money for their own pies, but the property of the former “Progress” farm was stretched to pieces. And to this day these people are forced, whether the land or not, into the only village in the Korop region, or perhaps in all of Chernigovishland, where thousands of acres of land are not being processed, the earth is already five acres [5,000 ha].
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u173	Please complete the formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u174	The earth has been walking for five or seven years. So when the villagers went to search for the truth before the judgment, Korsuk did not give them this truth. And to this day, people are sitting in bars and buying them out in plain sight, just as Engelgard Shevchenk was once redeemed, so today the Nehai, Sokirin, and many other peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Korsuk Tetjana Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u176	Dear national MPs and honourable deputy who addresses me! First of all, peasants were asked to receive rents for the use of land-pile according to a contract of state ownership on land. And that was not where the lease was broken. When I made that decision and the same decision was made by others, it was governed, first, by the Code of Land and by regulations. There was also a similar decision by the Court of Appeal on the matter. I get it. In addition, the official publisher of Ukraine also had appropriate publications. It's all in the court's decision. For the time being, as I know, an act of land survey, which was brought before a court on the basis of which the decision was taken, which was annulled by the administrative court of the Chernigiv district, the District Administrative Court of the Chernigiv region. So I think I've made the right decision, the right one. Moreover, the distinguished national MP, I also grew up in the village and my parents in the village, I would never have been able to make an unjust decision in accordance with these peasants. I understand they've got the land, they've got the skills to run it. But when I made a decision, I was never guided by any other illusions or entrapments, but only by laws and regulations. I'm sorry, I might be in such a harsh tone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u177	Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, regarding Judge Korsuk Tatyana Petrovna, the committee considered the matter, its decision was not overturned, it became legal, it became effective, and there were no more complaints. The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the selection of Corsük Tetjana Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u179	Now that act has been annulled, on the basis of which this lawsuit was brought before the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, let's put off the question of.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u181	We're going to be consistent, we're going to postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u182	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u183	We'll postpone, we'll be consistent, we'll have to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u184	Let us therefore, fellow believers, again, to be objective in our decision-making, postpone consideration of the matter until the next plenary week. Now, dear fellows, let's move on to the next draft of Decree 6361-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u185	Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three, article 62 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the procedure for the appointment and discharge of a professional judge by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of Fedchuk Vitali Volodymyrovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Shisov Oleg Alexiyovich; Donetsk's Administrative Appeal JudgeJurko Irina Volodymyrna; Kyiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Nameless Natalia Victorian. Please support draft Decree 6361-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, there is no objection to the committee's recommendations. None. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 6361-1]] Please vote. [[13:00:37]] For 339 Decision taken. Now I'm going to review the draft decree. [[Registration number 6361-2]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u187	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 6361-2. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: The committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the election of Kernick Ivan Ivanovich as judge of the Dolin District Court of the Ivano-Frankow region on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u188	Note the suggestions. Please, Valery Bondick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision was not unanimous. There was really a check on Judge Kernick. But man has been working for three years, and that's not how all these circumstances are taken into account, because not everything is clear with this test. So there was only one complaint against this judge, so as not to spoil the fate of a man because he was working. I suggest, if you don't agree to choose this judge right now, you better turn around to allow him to choose again by carefully checking all the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u190	National Deputy Skutjak, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u191	I support the idea that I know this judge. I support the idea that all these facts need to be reexamined, taken care of, and that no final decision can be taken today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u192	Rev. Olionik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, they have already tested the same fact for several years. The point is that the Valley Court of Ivano-Frankiv County has begun to consider corporate issues, the ownership of properties in Kiev. This is what is called a simple and often used word “residering”. The one who gave approval, set up property rights, and determined what to do in the city of Kiev: who to do, who to lie down, who to sit down, who to forbid what to do. There's nothing left to check. Either we're fighting the raiders, or we're going to continue this story and start checking for years. This is the Johno-Frankow Court of the region of Johno-Frankow has no relation and no legal basis for dealing with corporate relations in Kiev. There's no other way. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u194	Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, what will you recommend?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u195	Yes, indeed, yes, indeed, the committee was not unanimous, but the majority decided not to recommend. And I think it's appropriate to postpone this candidature and still check, really, the facts so that you don't break the judge's fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council the appointment of Kernick John Ivanovich as judge of the local court. In accordance with the law, we must put to the vote the election of a judge. If the decision is not supported, more specifically, a positive decision will not be made, then it is considered that we have accepted the committee’s proposal. Another suggestion was to postpone consideration of the matter. So how do we do it? Well, we'll have to wait until next week. Please give all arguments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I now announce the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Number 6362]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u197	Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Number 6362]] In accordance with article 126, part five, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules and recommends that the committee release Kaliczak Vasil Mikolaiovich from office as judge of the Drobicsky District Court of the Lviv Region in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an indictment against him. Please support draft Decree 6362.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, no objections, no other suggestions? I would like to vote on the bill of release of the judge to release Kalyczak Vasil Mikolaiovich from office as judge of the Drogbyk District Court of the Lviv Region in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an indictment against him. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:05:28]] For 315 Decision taken. Now, Your Honor, the draft Order on the Liberation of Judges. [[Registration number 6362-1]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u199	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 15 and 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules, the Committee recommends that judges be dismissed: [[No. 6362-1]] The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Demchenka Sergija Fedorovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of Ternopil district Dercert Lidiya Ivanovna - in connection with the application for resignation; The Red-Leiman City Court of the Donetsk district of Lysachenko Mikhail Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Kirov District Court of Kirovgrad, Shilov Ludmila Mikhaylovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The NovoVrontsov District Court of the Herson district of Butenko Tetjan Ivanovna, in connection with the application for release at your own request; Obolon district court of Kyiv Shevchenko, Ludmila Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support draft Decree 6362-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! What are they, huh? Now, one minute. Carmazine's always the first. Then Chechetov and Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Finally, everyone who wanted everything from the Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Sergio Demchenka, got it. For two and a half years more than the established term of the Constitution, a person was illegally in office, having written matters down! I'm addressing you, Vasil Vasilovich. I've been doing college stuff. During these days, I was doing college work! It's a brutal violation of rights! Man had no right to do that under the Constitution! And that's what we're showing how we're building on the Constitution. So there's obviously something wrong with the mechanisms to protect the Constitution in our country. There's something wrong with us at the U.S. Attorney General's Office. Because the second day was about to break a criminal case! They found Tymoshenko’s case in 2003, they repeat! And here, where monthly wages are illegally paid!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u202	Mikhailo Chechtov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u203	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Voropaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u204	National MP Voropeyev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u205	I agree with the previous speaker that there is something wrong with us, only the question “Where is it wrong?” I believe that it is wrong for the Committee on Justice to do so. And I'll explain why. For two years, the Supreme Council has not been able to adopt a law that would allow us to appoint or dismiss judges. There is no such law now in force. And the committee still can't pass the law. As a matter of fact, your deputy Shustik's law has been worked out, you're keeping it and not letting it into the hall. Why, she asks. Because someone benefits from some intrigue, fire one person and no one else. And do it. The power of the spineless, the toothless. My proposal is to remove Mr. Demchenk from this list, immediately introduce in the Hall the Act amending the Law on the Judiciary, to define the legal mechanism for the appointment and dismissal of judges and thereafter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u206	Complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u207	and since the adoption of the law, we can, at the same time, pass a law that allows us to appoint a right-holder to head the Supreme Economic Court, and we can also fire Demchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u208	That's how I figured out your offer. I mean, since there's a point to Demchenk, vote separately for him, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Vasil Onopenko, please. Dear fellows, I see such differences now that we will not release anyone at all, so let's at least partially move. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u209	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, I sit down and think of the absurdity of deliberately violating the Constitution and applicable legislation. We haven't changed the Constitution yet? Nobody. The Constitution provides for a judge to serve as a judge under 65 years of age. It's in America up to 90 years old and up to 100 years old. We're up to 65 years old. Demchenko's run out of time. He hasn't worked in 2.5 years. I immediately filed with him according to his application for release. And here's a group of people who are using the situation in the Supreme Economic Court, where there are huge abuses, including on the part of the leaders of this court, and you know it. And today we're going to say delete it from the list. Why? Should he be working there until he's 70? I am ashamed to listen to these suggestions today. Please, take a look and release this man. Do not torture the Supreme Court, nor the society, nor those who appeal to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Economic Court of Demchenka concluded at the Bureau that they would not be sent to the Supreme Court for complaints. Now the Supreme Economic Court, the Supreme Court, they all come to me and say, ‘Give order’. How do you put order when you're protecting today not the Constitution, you're trying to break it. Release him, and let him not interfere with justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, this is how I propose. Please. The MP formally asked the question to be removed from the list. Let's do it this way. I'll just be a minute. You listen to that. Now that we've removed the vote for everyone else, then we'll discuss this separately. As formally proposed. I'm following a formal sign. So, dear fellows, now I'm going to remove it. [[B in m in s a l in]] On a formal basis, as we have done and do when we consider all matters. I'm sorry, we're going to delete the last name now, after we've made our decision, we're going to discuss it separately -- and I'm going to put it to a vote. That's it. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the release of judges by removing the name of Demchenka Sergija Fedorović, Ukraine's Supreme Economic Court. [[Registration number 6321-1]] 6362-1, I said. Please vote. [[13:13:39]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Well, respectable colleagues didn't make it, did they? Region Party 147. Well, please! Wait! Region Party – 147, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 18, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 6, Communists – 24, “Litvina Block” – 19, “Afterfractional” – 4. Please, one minute from the factions on this. Please, Yuri Klukkowski. Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u211	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Mr. Head and respectable colleagues! This morning, when we tried to comply with the Law on Rules, we were told that we were revisionists. A revision of the Constitution of Ukraine is now under way. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we remove judges from the list when there is doubt as to the grounds for making and making decisions. What doubts might there be in this case? For two and a half years, the Constitution of Ukraine is not a violation of the statute, not of any other legal instrument. Please tell me, how long are we going to be doing the constitutional review in practice? Our faction will only vote if we vote in full, no matter what. And don't make fun of it anymore, because everyone's already saying that the Supreme Council doesn't want to free Demchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u212	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u213	Sobolev, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Dear colleagues, note regulation 6362-1. Why are we firing Demchenk? In connection with the application for resignation. That's right, the Ripper, Lisachenko, who filed a resignation application and they're going on release. Today, the procedure is clearly defined as it is happening. There is a decision of the High Council of Justice, there is a decision of our committee, there is an appropriate submission and a statement of this person. What's wrong, please? Is the order of appointment disrupted today? We have 60 vacancies in Ukraine. This means that we do not release others. So the question is probably in another way: in the financial interest of those making such proposals. Therefore, the proposal of our faction is clear: there is a draft decision, there is no decision without deletion, please vote together with Demchenka's name as a whole, and then this decision will be legal and constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u214	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u215	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Since we are in a democratic parliament of a democratic country, let us act democratically: not totalitarianly, not politically, not partyly, but democratically. We have six last names today. I suggest we put it to a vote, starting with Demchenko. First place Demchenko, then the Ripper and vote for every last name. The results of the vote will be democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u216	Dear National Deputies! I have this proposal that will bring you all together: to begin by welcoming the judges whom we have elected on short notice, to wish them great success in the service of law and personal happiness so that they will leave the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we will continue to find a relationship with you. So on your behalf, I welcome the judges we've just chosen to serve on an open-ended basis. [[Applause]] And I wish them success. And thank you for your part of the job. Now it's essentially a question. I know the Constitution, come on. You don't vote. There are no people, you're showing me the Constitution. You don't have to break it. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote in such a way as to return to the draft decision. Then I'll put it all together. If you don't support me, I'll put it in person. Is there no objection? That's it. I'm voting for a return to the draft ruling. [[Registration number 6261-1]] [[13:19:02]] For 394 We're back. Now I'm going to put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? In general, this decree is without exception. If the Supreme Council doesn't support us, we'll go after every personal name. That's it. I'm voting on a motion for a committee to adopt a draft decision. [[Registration number 6321-1]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u217	I'm sorry, I'm already confused. I'm betting on a draft ruling on the release of judges without expulsion. Identify yourself, please. [[13:19:59]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 128, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 47, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 1, non-fractional -2. Now I'm putting it in my personal name. To dismiss Judge Demchenka Sergio Fedorovich of the Supreme Court of Agriculture in connection with the application for resignation. [[13:20:39]] For-173 The decision is not taken. By factions, please don't shout, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 127, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 44, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 0, non-fractional – 2. I put to the vote the question of the dismissal of the judge of the Court of Appeal of Ternopil district of Dercert Lydia Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote. [[13:21:23]] For 240 Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the dismissal of the judge of the Krasnolyman City Court of the Donetsk district of Lysachenek Mikhail Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation, please vote. [[13:21:51]] For 237 Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the dismissal of the judge of the Kirov District Court of Shilova Ludmila Mihaylovna in connection with the application for resignation. [[13:22:20]] For 241 Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the release from office of the judge of the Novovorontsov District Court of Hersson district of Butenko Tetjana Ivanovna in connection with the application for exemption at your own request. [[13:22:49]] For 236 Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the dismissal of the judge of the Obolon District Court of Kiev, Shevchenko, Ludmila Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation. [[13:23:15]] For 240 Decision taken. Yeah, that's it. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at 12 o'clock we had a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and we were discussing a bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend some of the laws of Ukraine regarding non-abuse of the right to appeal. [[Registration number 6109]] I'm asking the initiators to take a break, the national deputy Shustik you'll express your thoughts, and then I'll lead you to your famous proposals, if they're accepted, we'll work with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u218	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would like to draw your attention to today's consideration of Bill 6109, which was adopted for second reading with a grave violation of the Rules, specifically article 116. Specifically, article 116 of the Rules, which already acts as a law, provides that the second reading of the National Deputies has the right to amend only those articles that were voted on in the first reading. [[and, by the way, one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court is even higher than the Constitution.]] The table, which, by the way, was distributed only yesterday evening to the national deputies, contains 12 articles that were not voted by Parliament in the first reading, articles 18, 19, 24, 117, 171, 25, 30, 32, 42 and 46, and 47 of the Acts on the Supreme Council of Justice and the Code of Administrative Justice. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in principle, no bill, or law coming out of the Supreme Council, can be adopted in violation of the Rules, the Constitution and other laws, especially if these laws are conducive to judicial reform in Ukraine. So I would ask you not to consider this bill, either to bring it back to the committee, or to take it out of consideration at all. I will not touch the contents of this bill today, because there are just as many important issues and contradictions. The only thing I'm asking you to do is not make such mistakes when we put in advance a bill that will regulate the operation of the judicial system, and also attract the responsibility of the judges, violate the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a really difficult situation, and we need to do everything we can to prevent such phenomena from continuing to be adopted by law as a basis for making changes, for making adjustments to individual articles, and in preparing for the second reading, the whole law is subject to revision. Article 226 forbids doing so. Regrettably, there is no mechanism to meet this requirement of article 116. So today at the Conciliation Council, I have proposed to support my proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt a decision by which, when it reveals the Legal Administration of such violations, when, in the form of amendments to those articles or other articles, virtually all the law is being revised so that the Head of the Supreme Council has the right to revert this law to the committee so that they can bring it into line with the requirements of the Rules. I would ask that this bill be prepared, more specifically, a draft decree so that we can adopt it on Tuesday, the next one, and then this will remove this variation. Because we don't need these violations. The other one. One minute, I have to put out a decision of the Conciliation Council. The second question. The amendments, the clarifications to this law, brought him into line with the Constitution, with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. So that's the moment, or we're now making a consensus decision that we're considering, no -- I'm going to put it as agreed on the Conciliation Council, on the voting proposal to consider it now. The decision will be decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These are proposals, please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u220	Dear Mr. Head and respectable colleagues! But the Rules, we were taught today, should read the whole thing, not the individual standards. That is why I would like to quote the standard of article 117 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. “The draft prepared for the second or second reading, the conclusion of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents to it shall be made available to the Ukrainian National Deputies no later than 10 days before the day of the consideration of the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council.” In this regard, I would like to point out that this bill was not on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council for this week, approved by the Conciliation Council. It was given to the Ukrainian national deputies only yesterday, after the Conciliation Council. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose, I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whose duties include monitoring the compliance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u221	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u222	I understand I've fed some fools, but you can't stand it! So, I ask you to give a mandate to the Rules Committee of Ukraine to study how this bill, with a grave violation of article 117 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without a decision of the Conciliation Council, came to today's meeting schedule. I ask you to consider this as my official request to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u223	Thank you. Please, Pisarenko. Then Vadim Koleschenko and we'll keep moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u224	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, I'd like to move from political direction to practical direction on this issue. Well, first of all, it's still April 28th, because on April 28th, this law was considered on the committee, and this table was appropriately used by the deputy to have it on May Day. Perhaps someone was resting, not wanting to read, and today you return to that question. The other one. The issue today is about the fight against corruption in the middle of the judicial branch of government. And I realize there's a lot of pressure going on today on the part of those who want to cover these issues. So for today, I would like to make an offer. Now to put this bill to the vote, to consider it, because the committee, by a majority, has made a decisive decision on this law. And today it needs to be put to the vote. Please put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u225	Vadim Koleschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that very well when we study the Rules, but when we study them selectively, it's no good. I'll remind you. About 11 o’clock today with the same violations, the same bill was considered and voted on. But what seat points, that is, the seat of the point of view, provide. That's the first one. The other one. On Tuesday’s Conciliation Council, the bill was introduced. And that was discovered today. First. Secondly, you decided to move to Wednesday or Thursday, so yesterday this table was given out. And MP Philippeenko said that it was already April 28th voted and was in the register. So I propose to the Supreme Council that we now determine whether we are going to consider this issue. I'd like to take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u227	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. I make it clear that on the Conciliation Council, the Conciliation Council discussed the issue of Bill 6109. [[One minute]] He was on the schedule for Tuesday’s meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but in view of what were the suggestions that were made to reconcile positions, and this bill became political, it was decided to postpone its consideration by Thursday. And it wasn't just about this bill, it was about some other bills. But since this came into existence, let's do it. We're going to deal with this radically. First. I would like to ask in advance and advance support for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which obliges the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to allow for the consideration of draft laws that are being tabled with the appropriate violation of article 116. And then we won't, we won't have that problem. The other one. Second, respectable colleagues. I will now put to the vote whether there is the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this bill. If not, we will not consider. Yeah, we'll look into it. Because the positions here are essentially 50 times 50. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should now consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the non-abuse of the right to appeal. [[Registration number 6109]] Please vote. [[13:33:34]] For 257 Decision taken. Reporter: Koleszenko Vadim Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, we are considering an unforgivable law. And I want to remind you. The question raised today is that the judges are practically beyond our capacity to bring responsibility. You have not seen such examples once in this room. I'm the head of the judges' release committee, and I can confirm, dozens of judges who are criminals today, but that's not recognized by the court, we can't just bring them to justice, we can't release them. There's a judge in our history who overturned the Supreme Council's decision on his dismissal and is now working as a judge. A criminal case is being brought against the judge, and in a nearby court the case is being dismissed again. And that's a decision that's going round and round and round and round and round Disciplinary responsibility cannot be brought to the attention of a judge, for by means of various district courts, city courts, decisions or the High Council of Justice are being annulled, or others who are intended to bring the judge’s disciplinary responsibility to justice. And we need to realize today that if we don't make a decision that will be legally balanced, there's nothing we can do to really make criminals, people who don't have the right to hold the judge's office possible on time and very quickly to be held accountable. Why do we have such problems with this bill? The point is that it embraces two laws that are practically the same and that are practically introduced by the same and those entities of the legislative initiative. That's why we're offering you a second reading today, the draft bill takes into account virtually all the provisions of another bill, particularly the implementation of the powers of the High Council of Justice, submitted by the People's Deputies of Pilppenco, Pisarenko and Olijnik. [[Registration number 6322 from April 19, this year]] What's more, Project 6322's position is almost consistent with the project's position at 6,109, which we're currently looking at. That is why we have come up with the problems that we are now discussing with you. The purpose of this bill is to respond at the right time to violations of legislation and oaths by judges in order to enable our society to enjoy the way our legal system works. This bill certainly does not take away all the flaws of the judiciary and the judicial system, but this is the first step in the fight against corruption and in increasing the role of justice in our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u229	Let's do it. Please. Amendment number one of People's Deputies Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u230	Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Pisarenko is taken into account as amended. In the article, the phrase “Member of the High Council of Justice” is deleted and continues to be tested on this page. This is done to establish the collegiality of the actions of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u231	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u232	Thank you. I note that the violation of the 116th article of the Rules prevented me from making appropriate amendments to the text that was not voted on in the first reading. I draw your attention to two things in the formulation of article 18832. First, it's about the terms set by law, and since this article, by law, is not by law, but because this article is addressed to the judges, it means that the judges will now have to act, not on the basis of law, but on the basis of legal acts. And a second observation. The penalty of 200 untaxed minimums is already a non-administrative sanction and a criminal sanction. Therefore, it cannot be applied in the Code of Administrative Violations. In this regard, I demand that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u233	Yes, the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u234	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a distinguished reporter, we have really agreed on the Conciliation Council on the changes that the reporter has just said. To be quite clear, this amendment establishes responsibility if it is avoided from providing relevant documents and meeting the legal requirements of the High Council of Justice in its entirety. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u235	Dear colleagues! When, in accordance with the Rules, there will be an insistence on deputies to vote on the amendment, whether counted or rejected, it will be implemented. That is, I am now voting for support in Amendment No 1, from which the words “member of the High Council of Justice” are deleted. In view of this, I am voting on this amendment. Please vote. [[13:38:59]] For 261 Correction accepted. Now Amendment No. 2 of Jury Klukkowski. Microphone, please. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u236	Yuri Klukkowski's microphone. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u237	Thank you. Amendment number two is mine. Colleagues, look. True, the amendment is written on this page, and the text to which this amendment appears on page six. It's also an interesting way to organize a table of amendments. You understand that no one understands what this is about. So the editorial that was adopted in the first reading was that there was a restriction on the right to appeal against acts of the High Council of Justice by the persons to whom the act was applied. Now this edition has been changed, but it's changed illiterately. Please listen to how it's changed. This is on page 4, part two, article 171. “The right to charge a legal act shall be exercised by the persons concerned, as well as by the persons who are the subject of the law in which the act is to be applied.” The writer did not give up, you can see, the theories of the state and the rights that explain it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u238	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u239	That a legal act has an undefined subject, and therefore it is simply impossible to establish the subject to which it will be applied. Well, I don't know if the Supreme Council is going to adopt illiterate laws, well, that proves our level.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u240	Thank you. Please, the committee on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u241	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u242	I'm voting on Amendment No. 2 of Jury Klukkowski. [[13:41:01]] For-89 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 3 of the People’s Deputy Philipenka, Olínik, and Pisarenko
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u243	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u244	It's counted. Do you insist on voting on this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u245	The authors do not insist: it is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, since every MP has the right to insist on confirming this amendment, I am voting, please note, Amendment 3. It is included and needs to be confirmed by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:41:50]] For 248 Correction counted. Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u247	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u248	It's counted. Klukkowski, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u249	Thank you. I ask you to pay attention to the very interesting selection of those authorities that are supposed to be charged by the Supreme Administrative Court in the first instance: this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the only legislative body, as well as the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Justice. It should be understood that in the right of the authors of this amendment, the President is in charge of executive power in Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Justice of the Judiciary in Ukraine. It seems to me that once again, we're going to be rehearsing later on from this amendment. And at the same time, I want to urge those MPs who have any business in themselves to consider that after this law you will be completely unprotected. Your property will easily fall into the hands of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u250	I mean, we have to vote on support for this amendment, right? I am voting on amendment number four to confirm it by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee counted. [[13:43:18]] For the 250. The amendment is counted. Amendment number 5, Alexander Steshenko. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u251	Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u252	Are you insisting on her? Voting, right? Amendment 5 of Alexander Steshenko is put to the vote, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u253	It's partially accounted for, it's not exactly there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u254	Well, we need to confirm everything equally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u255	It's already included in the text. [[13:43:52]] For-53
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u256	For 53. Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u257	It's partially accounted for, and it's already gone into the body. If we vote on the amendment, it will be voted on as a whole. But it's part of the committee's decision. That's why we can't, if we're voting now, we're voting against the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u258	Yeah, let's move on. The next amendment is 6th. Please, here's the clarification, I understand you have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u259	Correction 6th. There's a complement. To do sub-paragraph 2: In article 19, the second text should be supplemented by the words: “Except for the charge of acts of an individual, as well as the case of an individual. the inaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, which concerns the interests of a particular person.” And then I'm going to put part three in this line, and then I'm going to put it in the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u260	It's counted. Please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u261	I want to understand. Just announced amendment to part two of article 19. There is no such amendment here at all. And now we are not just ignoring the 116th article of the Constitution, and we are also making new nonexistent amendments to articles that are not affected by the vote. It's just the furor of democracy in Ukraine. Let the Constitution and the laws be hidden. I demand that this be avoided by the chairman of the meeting. Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, I remind you that there are two bills in this body. I said it first. Second, it was here. an advisory board that identified proposals for legal administration and deputies. They counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the confirmation of this amendment with the addition that the rapporteur has just made. Please vote. [[13:45:53]] For 245 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u264	Amendment number seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u265	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u266	Are you insisting on this amendment? I can't see. Let's move on. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u267	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u268	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone. 8th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u269	Amendment 8 is a continuation of the raid which has already been attempted in amending the Code of Administrative Justice for the election of the President of Ukraine. This question was considered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Any attempt to limit the right to defend their rights by prohibiting a lawsuit is unconstitutional, obviously. Once again, it is proposed that this right to defend its rights in court be restricted by a restraining order, which is not an open constitutional norm, which is the direct legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I ask you to withdraw this amendment, at any rate let the violators of the Constitution vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u270	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 8 to confirm it. Please vote. [[13:47:12]] For 245 Decision taken. Correction confirmed. The next amendment, nine of which are included, please, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u271	This is a technical amendment for the prosecution of the legal acts of the executive branch, this is a technical amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u272	Please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u273	I don't know what kind of technical adjustment was made to who and when it was placed on the table yesterday for the Ukrainian National Deputies. Once again, I remind you that what has not been handed over has no right to vote in this room is not right, it is a violation of the constitutional procedure for the consideration of bills. Again, however, I note the formulation of the proposed part of the second new edition of article 171. The right to charge a normative act is vested in those persons who are subject to the application of the act. Please tell me, at least to the fool, what does this mean, if the act has an undefined subject to whom it is addressed, then to whom will it be applied? How will we know about this? Who has the right to charge as a result? I'm asking you to support this nonsense by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u274	Now Alexander Efraemov, then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u275	Dear Yuri Borisovich! Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u276	Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u277	Bogdanovich, I beg your pardon. At the request of those who had participated in the negotiations, a number of rights had been introduced today, and half the time there were deputies working on the issue. Half an hour ago, half an hour ago in the hall, these papers, which were agreed upon by your negotiators, were distributed in the hall. I'm asking you to take the detailed amendments and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u278	Now it's Yuri Carmazin, and then you'll have a line. Yuri Carmazin, please. And we continue our morning session 15 minutes before the finalization of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now doing an unconstitutional and unregulated thing. All that was happening in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council on the so-called political reconciliation of matters was only one thing: to consider this bill of Law 6109 or not to consider, since it was introduced in violation of the Rules? As for the text, I want to tell you that no one has given anyone the right to do so. As far as the theory of law is concerned, these are novels to be taught. I don't know just who, I don't think students, assholes can be taught if you can sue something in advance if you don't have a legal act yet. Klukkowski and Šustik were right, the right was the Legal Authority, which says to you that you can't apply it. But there's obviously some other logic. Ladies and gentlemen, don't ruin the entire legal field of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u280	Yuri Klukkowski, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u281	Thank you. I would like to ask the former Head of the Rules Committee, who this morning accused the opposition to the revision of the Rules of Procedure, to set out to the entire Chamber the rules of the Rules of the Ukraine which provide for negotiators and also for written or oral amendments to the comparative table of second reading. I want to remind you once again that the 117th article requires that the table be distributed 10 days before the session. So please specify a norm where there is a concept of “reconcilators” and changes to the given table.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, I am voting to confirm Amendment No. 9 of the Clarification of the Complaints of Legal Acts and beyond the text. Please vote. [[13:51:24]] For 247 The decision on the amendment has been made. Amendment of the 10th Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u283	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u284	The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u285	Yuri Carmazin. On the first reading, the distinguished national MPs, the honourable Mr. Head, adopted a position in accordance with the law regarding changes to article 171 of the Prime Law. ‘The person(s) responsible for the prosecution of acts of the High Council of Justice’, which stated: ‘The right to charge the act of the High Council of Justice shall be exercised by the persons for whom it has been applied.’ Now, in the course of the discussion, these things cancel out, or change, those that haven't been considered or accepted. My proposal in writing, as set out in the amendment, is to write down part of article 171-1 of the Code of Administrative Justice: “The right to charge an act of the High Council of Justice has persons for whom it has been approved” so that the right to charge such an act does not arise only after the application, i.e. after the dismissal of the judge, or the examination of the application of the Supreme Council of Justice to the authorities to which it is addressed. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u286	Dear colleagues, the argument to your knowledge is that the committee rejected this amendment, and I'm voting on amendment number 10, by Yuri Carmazin. [[13:53:06]] For-119 No correction supported. Amendment 11 Alexander Stushenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u287	Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u288	Well, the obvious thing is, it's "applicable, it's out." What are we talking about? I ask you to put to the vote my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u289	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 11 of Alexander Steshenko. [[13:53:44]] For-129 No correction supported. Amendment 12, by Philippeenko and others. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u290	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u291	Please, on the 12th amendment of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u292	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this amendment applies, this is a new amendment, this is added to the article, the features of conduct. Why is the Supreme Council here? Why is the President here? If it was in the Bill of Acts of the High Council of Justice. I'll remind you what's written here about the active inactivity of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice. Although I can see, Vladimir Mikhailovich, after today's decision on Demchenk, I promise to bring this decision to trial. And I'm asking the stenographers to produce normally, work, everything. I'll go to the courts and bring a lawsuit to Chechchev, to others, and on a corrupt basis, Demchenka is being held today under the authority of two and a half years against the Constitution. We're going to press charges on behalf of Ukrainian citizens, and you'll see to you, Mr. Chechetov!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, since there is a requirement and a proposal, more specifically, to put an amendment to the vote for her [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Yuri Klukkowski, I am. Please, Yuri Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u294	Thank you. I would like to point out that this amendment, well, repeats three branches of power: the Supreme Council, the President and the Council of Justice. Well, we've already come to realize that this is the right mind. But what I'm pointing out is, in part three, is that instead of an official report by party to a case that is currently provided by the Code of Administrative Justice, it's only a publication about the discovery of such conduct in the relevant media, where the act has been published. I would like to remind you that this means a restriction on the right to participate in the proceedings. Because this media tool can be too low - reach, and it will be impossible to control whether it will be. So it seems to me that everything is done here again so that the person who filed the suit does not know that the case will be considered. So it's an unacceptable norm, it has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the approval of Amendment 12. Please vote. Confirming amendment number 12. [[Noise Nodes]] [[13:56:42]] For 232 That's not what he called his last name? I called. Well, please, a line. Let's finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u296	Yuri Bogdanovich, I have the utmost respect for you. But Chechtev here, if you don't have a coalition vote for any of your amendments, she wipes your legs. I'd have been out of this coalition for a long time. You have honor or no honor! Go to normal people. We'll take you in. We'll assess your potential. They don't vote for you, they wipe your legs all the time. No amendment of yours shall be voted upon, not by BUT, not by “our Ukraine”. Come to us. We'll give you a nice cup of tea, warm you up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u297	Amendment number 13. We're going. No one was named after him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u298	Amendment number 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u299	I'm asking you to calm down. Correction of the People's Deputies of Stishenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u300	Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u301	Vladimir Mikhailovich, to comment on her, I see no point in this room. But I will use my right to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee rejected the amendment of National Deputy Steshenko number 13. The author has the right to request that the amendment be put to the vote. That's what I'm doing. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 13 of Alexander Steshenko. Please identify yourself. [[13:58:28]] For-143 No correction supported. Amendment 14. The author, Philippeenko, and other national deputies. The committee counted. Is there an insistence on voting this amendment? None. Amendment 15 Alexander Stishenko. The amendment was rejected by the committee. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u303	Please also put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u304	Amendment 15 of Alexander Steshenko is put to the vote. [[13:59:10]] For 148 No correction supported. Amendment 16 Yuri Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u305	Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u306	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose that section 2 of Article 1 of the Law “On the Higher Council of Justice” be made available as follows: “The Supreme Council of Justice shall be a collegiate, independent body responsible for the formation of a highly professional judiciary capable of qualified, conscientious and impartial execution of justice on a professional basis, as well as for the decision-making of infringements by judges and prosecutors of non-conformity requirements and within its competence for their disciplinary responsibility.” This is the end of the amendment. I would like to draw your attention, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, who has not endured the soul of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine with regard to such a violent attitude towards the amendment and amendment now, and he has left the demonstration room in protest, even though he should have taken part in the discussion of these amendments. It's unprecedented, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u307	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u308	Colleagues, the people’s MP Karmazin’s amendment committee number 16 turned down. But as a result of the work, it is suggested that the words “justice is the subject of authority”. Exclusion from the fact that we have taken into account the proposal of MP Klukkowski number 17. Therefore, there is a proposal to vote for such an addition. Excluding part 2 of article 1 after the words “justice is” the words “entity of authority”, which were proposed by the committee to vote. Now, the proposal to exclude these words in connection with the proposal of MP Klukkowski at number 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on this proposal from the committee. Please vote. [[14:01:32]] For 256 Decision taken. Amendment No. 17 of Jury Klukkowski is counted, so there is no need to vote for it. Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u310	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u311	Filipenko the author. Counted. Are they insisting on this amendment? No, it's not. Correction 19, Pisarenko, accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u312	There are some literary details. The committee's proposal is to delete the words “Member of the High Council of Justice” and the last three tapes: “Member of the High Council of Justice, who acts under the authority of the head or deputy head of the Supreme Council of Justice”. Yeah, that's the first one. By these exceptions. One more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u313	You can read all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u314	Next, the phrase “member of the High Council of Justice” is deleted. On page 11, the second paragraph: “Member of the High Council of Justice, who acts under the authority of the head or deputy head of the High Council of Justice from the examination of specific matters” shall be deleted. Before the last two sentences, add the words: “except for cases before a closed court” and then the words: “Member of the High Council of Justice” are deleted by text everywhere. And the last paragraph, i.e. the last paragraph, should be added where the word “congregation” should be added: “High Council of Justice”. Here's what's called a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u315	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u316	Thank you. I'm paying attention to part three of this new 25 sattti, which contains an unprecedented unconstitutional norm. It doesn't matter if it's a member of the commission doing it, whether it's going to do it all, or whether it's going to do it all, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it all, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or not, or whether it's going to do it, or whether it's going to do it, or not, or whether it's going to be, or not, or not, the Supreme Council of Justice Council, but notice, the need to Think about what this is about. It's not constitutional. After all, judges are governed only by law when they make decisions, not by the Supreme Council of Justice. And the High Council of Justice will advise the court how to make a decision on a case that is not yet concluded. Think, fellow workers, well, what this may mean for each of you and your loved ones. I suggest we turn this down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u317	Dear colleagues! Yuri Prokopchuk. Microphone, please. About this amendment, right, the 19th?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u318	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Ravenshina. I'm both in line with this amendment, and in general in the body of the law, which destroys the entire system of justice in Ukraine, which introduces non-constitutional branches of authority, which were mentioned to individual colleagues who speak of someone there to wipe their feet. You are now erasing the legs of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people as the only bearer of power in Ukraine under the Constitution that you are ruining. And by the way, we're supposed to have a cup of tea. We've heard that 65 years ago. And you know how it ended. I'm winning, but not yours. That's how it's gonna go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u319	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment No.19, author Pisarenko, taking into account the details that the reporter has recorded. Please vote. [[2:05:44]] For 237 Decision taken. The 20th, Jury of Klukkowski, is accounted for. Is there no need to vote? None. Amendment 21, author Stishenko. Declined. Please, Alexander Stishenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u320	Let's try it. I very much request that you put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u321	I'm betting on the vote of 21st Alexander Steshenko. [[14:06:25]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The 22nd Amendment is Philippeenko and other national MPs. Counted. Are you insisting on her? Yuri Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u322	I would ask the rapporteur to explain the substance of the amendment and the legal, legal burden of the word “only” which appeared in the right column compared to the left column. Which other procedural law, or material law, states that there is an “exclusive right to appeal” and not enough to state to which court is being charged.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u323	Well, this is a question for the author of the legislative initiative. But the committee agreed that the text should read “only to the Supreme Administrative Court”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u324	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 22nd People's Deputies of the Philippines to confirm it. Please vote. [[14:07:40]] For the 250. Correction confirmed. The 23rd amendment is Yuri Klukkowski. Overruled. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u325	Dear colleagues, my amendment 23 has to do with the 17 amendments that have been taken into account. And it should be able to take 23 amendments into account. If we do not point out that the Supreme Council of Justice is the subject of authority, then the issue of the prosecution of it will disappear solely to the Supreme Administrative Court. I have a question: will the Supreme Administrative Court also decide on the issue of labour relations by a special chamber in exceptional conduct without appeal, without appeal, and without appeal? Is this the kind of protection of labour rights that constitutional labour rights are offered? So it seems to me that I have to foresee different ways of accusing the decisions of the High Council of Justice, depending on their legal nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u326	Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u327	I am voting on Amendment 23 of Jury Klukkowski. [[14:09:03]] For 118 No correction supported. Amendment 24, by Philippeenko, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Amendment 25 counted, do you insist? No, it's not. Amendment 26 is counted. No, let's do it here. Which one? Twenty-five, right? Please, 25, and I'd like to ask the reporter to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u328	Counted. Yeah, just a minute. 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u329	Please, Yuri Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u330	I ask you to pay attention to the two novels that appeared here, and from my point of view, in the right perspective, they are very strange. It turns out that a violation of the oath now violates the terms of the case beyond the terms prescribed by the law on purpose. I'd like to ask, in what order will purpose be set? That's the subjective aspect of crime, isn't it? And how will we apply this to judges without criminal persecution? And secondly, a violation of a judge's oath turns out to be some kind of non-fulfilment. their duties in administrative positions. What about the administrative responsibilities that we have attached to the judiciary and the exercise of judicial powers? Colleagues, we're tremendously expanding the responsibility of the judges and making them just dependent, and if we do, we're preparing them to be broken across the knee. To prevent them from making judicial decisions, they made only the decisions needed by today’s authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u331	Dear colleagues, the amendment of Pisarenko, number 25, is taken into account except that the last paragraph of this amendment will be read as follows: the decision of the High Council of Justice to apply for the release of a judge in accordance with paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of part five of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine shall be taken by a majority of members from the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Justice. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u332	With this clarification in mind, I am voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment 25 of the People's MP Pisarenko, please vote. [[14:11:37]] For 253 Correction accepted. Amendment 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u333	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u334	Counted. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u335	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u336	Are you insisting? No, it's not. Correction 28th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u337	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u338	Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 29.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u339	There's a technical supplement. That is to say, an amendment has been taken into account, but the second paragraph in the text, where it is written that the administrative courts will complete the proceedings on the case has been written “the decision” and the word “acts” should be changed. And the same should be said in the third paragraph: administrative actions, appeals, the word “and filing” should be deleted, and the words “the decision” should be changed to “acts”. Taking these comments into account, this amendment is taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u340	Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u341	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! I'm addressing you, please look at the 27 amendments you've taken into account. Do you want to count? The question is, When deciding on the disciplinary responsibility of a judge or the dismissal of a judge, does he appear, or does he not appear more loyal, for a valid reason or not? For example, a person who is ill lies in a hospital with a heart attack, another stroke, so for the first time he may be put off the case, and the reexamination of such a judge is a reason for his absence. It doesn't matter what the reason is anymore, maybe the patient is lying there and so on, nobody cares, it's not constitutional, people are good, don't do it, don't do it, because you're going to get it, you know it or not. This violation of human rights may be a mass violation of human rights. Thank you. It doesn't mean the cases where the avoidance is, I understand there are cases of exodus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u342	Dear colleagues! Let me tell you a little bit about what my colleague just said, what we voted about. In fact, the judge gives written explanations that are included in the material of the case, the written explanations of the judges are made in the proper order, that is, the issue of protection. And I want to repeat again for the protocol, in the third paragraph, which we are voting on the amendments, the phrase “administrative appeals, appeals,” the phrase “or filing”, that is, we are deleting, not “the filing”, but “or the filing”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u343	Dear colleagues! We've passed the 27th amendment, and now we're looking at Amendment 29. The clarifications that need to be made to this amendment are the decisions made there to replace the word “acts” and delete “or decisions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u344	“Or submission”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u345	In this regard, I am voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment 29. Please vote. [[14:15:10]] For the 250. Decision taken. All amendments have been voted on. Now I'm putting to the vote a proposal, please, Yuri Klukkowski, for reasons? Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u346	Dear colleagues, at the Nuremberg trial, I was questioning a Catholic priest who said that when they took Communists, Social Democrats and Catholics, I was silent because I was a Protestant. When the brothers came to me, there was no one to protest. Those who now vote for this law will put themselves in this position: they will take it, perhaps a little later than others. I urge anyone who still respects the Constitution and the idea of law not to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-13-m0.u347	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the non-abuse of the right to appeal. [[Registration number 6109]] Please vote. [[14:16:31]] For – 260 The law is passed. Morning meeting of the Supreme Council. The factions, please. Region Party 170, Timoshenko Yulia Block 2 - 27, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 14, Communist 27, Litvina Block 19, non-fractional - 3. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed, the break of 16 hours. At 4: 00 a.m., we will continue our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday.
