ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u1	Yes, please prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[16:00:02]] 365 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, we need to include two bills in the agenda of the day session. It is proposed to include in the agenda of the day’s session a bill numbering 6525, the draft Law on Collection and Accounting for a Single Social Contribution. Please, the Pavlovsky microphone. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that a similar bill with the same name on the sole social contribution was rejected the day before. Thus, according to the existing Law, which is the law, we can consider such a law, or similar, only in the next session, otherwise it will be a violation of the law. I think we need to endure, to abide by the law. Otherwise, what example do we set for our citizens if we do not obey the law ourselves? The majority vote in violation of the Rules, the rules of law, and the bill. What should a private official or a common citizen do? This will be legal nihilism. So I'm asking you not to look at it, this law isn't what you look at and include, it wasn't even allowed to register with the Supreme Council. So I'm asking you to postpone the consideration of this bill and the inclusion in the agenda for the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u3	Yes, thank you for your advice, I will definitely use it when we get to your drafts. Please, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the law is very much needed is the first. Second. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee, we considered it very carefully on first reading, and we will recommend it for adoption in the session room. At the committee meeting, all parties to the social dialogue attended, expressed their views on the bill, and reaffirmed the need for such a bill. The Committee met with all actors who would participate in the process, including the Treasury and the Pension Fund, who also reaffirmed the importance of the law and the willingness to work on it on first and second reading. I therefore believe that in order to strengthen the system, the situation in social security requires the adoption of such a law, and we will strengthen the entire system of social protection for the population. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u5	Yes. Dear colleagues, there was an exchange. I am betting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Day Draft Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Social Contribution. [[Registration number 6525]] Please vote. [[16:03:35]] For 211 Not turned on. Dear colleagues, we will be there, if there is time, to consider two bills amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 and it is now proposed to include a bill under number 6507 also amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 as well, the Committee has considered it. And when we come to look at the bills and the colleagues of Lithuania and the colleagues of Láška to consider this bill at the same time. Therefore, I propose to include it in the agenda for the amendment to the State Budget 2010 Act. [[Registration number 6507]] Please vote. [[16:04:37]] For 240 The question is included. Let's see. We have two more codes. More faithfully, another codex. Two alternatives. This is a draft tax code for the Cabinet of Ministers and an alternative to a colleague of Catherinechuk's. [[6509]] [[6509-1]] So let us move on to the consideration of these codes. This codex is two options. We're invited and we're considering a draft tax code. [[Registration number 6509]] Reported by Minister of Finance Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I am presenting a draft of the Tax Code in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The need to adopt this legislation has been determined a long time ago, more than 10 years ago. During this period, several projects were prepared by different groups of experts. Each of these projects offered useful and intelligent solutions to individual issues of tax system regulation. Each of these projects has brought Ukraine closer to developing a truly comprehensive document that will be the basis for tax reform. The project, submitted by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is conceptually based on the economic reform programmes for 2010-2014. The program defines these tax reform objectives and tasks. Ensuring sustained economic growth on an innovation-investment basis while increasing aggregate tax revenues to all levels and state-owned trust funds at the expense of: strengthening domestic business positions in an international competitive fight against tax cuts in the expense of enterprises and reducing the time of taxpayers for charging, paying taxes; improving tax administration efficiency; building a comprehensive and comprehensive tax base, harmonising it with EU legislation; establishing tax fairness to restore the level playing field of competition in Ukraine; reducing the depth of social inequality. The Government's draft Tax Code is a comprehensive, harmonious and comprehensive document that will ensure that the interests of the State and taxpayers are balanced, that the country's tax system is competitive. The Ukrainian Tax Code mission is to become the legal basis for implementing modern, fair fiscal policies that ensure the general nature of taxation, equality of all taxpayers before the law, achievement of strategic objectives, sustainable development in an updated system of state economic regulation in accordance with the 2010 Economic Reform Programme for 2014. Work on the project took into account the experience of advanced, previous, various tax coders, carefully studied and proposed innovations. The project that is being considered today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a generalized result of the 10-year work of leading scientists, politicians, practitioners, each of whom contributed to the improvement of the national tax system. In the project presented, they are harmoniously combined with the current legal norms that have effectively confirmed their effectiveness, as well as the tax innovations aimed at innovation and investment development in the economy, stimulating resource conservation and environmental protection, reducing business pressure, reducing the level of Tinning, anti-crisis regulation, and coordinating the tax system. Harmonisation and coordination of the tax system of Ukraine with the EU, system-wide updating of system relations. The draft Tax Code is called upon in practice to ensure full implementation of article 67 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Everyone is obliged to pay taxes and congregations in the order and extent established by law. In doing so, I would like to stress that the Constitution, at the same time as the source of the obligation to pay taxes and the source of the right of citizens to pay taxes only in accordance with the law. The tax system has many functions. But they do not have the illegal function of depriving citizens of the results of their work. The Tax Code will ensure effective protection of the legitimate rights and interests of citizens. The project proposes to implement changes in the regulatory regulation of the tax system in the following directions: regulation of the regulatory framework; implementation of legal mechanisms; stability of tax legislation; resistance to shadow economy; expansion of the tax base by improving tax administration. Promoting business activity and economic development by reducing taxes, reducing income tax and VAT rates, stimulating innovation and investment activities, including through the introduction of innovative and investment tax credits, the introduction of aid for building infrastructures, the introduction of income tax benefits from energy savings, the introduction of accelerated depreciation, the provision of a harmonized approach to passive income taxation for the purpose of stimulating investment in any sector of the economy, the improvement of cost-added tax compensation. It's going to be reduced by 9 state taxes. That's 30 percent of the total. Local taxes and assemblies will be reduced by three from 14 to 5. This will dramatically reduce the cost of paying for administrative procedures related to the collection and payment of taxes. But not only will local budgets lose financial resources, but they will receive additional income from redistributing them to the benefit of part of the government budget. The relevant innovations contain a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Budget Code, which I have already had the honour to present to you today. The draft Tax Code as a normative document is made up of 19 chapters. Of these, two chapters — first and second — contain an appropriately general, legal description of the reformed tax system and tax administration rules and other compulsory payments. The following 15 sections define the tax rules for individual taxes, chapter 18 regulates the taxation of the results of public activities under the terms of the distribution agreement. Section 19 contains Transitional provisions that determine the order of entry into force of specific provisions of the Tax Code and contain changes to other normative acts with a view to harmonizing them with the Tax Code. Then I'm going to take a closer look at the main sections of the Tax Code project. Income tax is and remains one of the main fiscal taxes that corresponds to the practice of developed countries. At that time, it is envisaged that local government authorities should be allowed to set and include 5 per cent of the tax rate in the respective budget and lower the tax rate at a national level from 20 to 17 gradually over three years. The definition of income and expenditure is proposed to be carried out according to the principle of accruing and matching income and expenditure. That is, by the fact that goods or services are supplied that correspond to the expected accounting approach. This money will ensure a real approximation of the tax and accounting accounts when calculating the income tax. The introduction of tax incentive mechanisms is foreseen, namely, to stimulate the updating of core funds, to introduce accelerated depreciation standards, to provide special investment aids in the form of investment and innovation tax credit, to benefit from existing infrastructure, to energy conservation, to increase incentives in investment in human capital. Without restrictions, costs will include primary vocational training for workers, workers in the workforce, directly in the production of education, retraining and increasing the professional qualifications of engineering professionals, preventing capital outflows abroad, stimulating investment. This is a constraint on spending interest payments on debt requirements. Taxes on added taxes store the existing tax facilities and their accounting rules. Gradually, however, the rate decreases from 20 percent to 17 percent over three years. Special taxation regimes are maintained for farmers and subsidies for processed milk and meat. At the same time, different VAT refund terms are being introduced. Two reporting periods result in exports of goods, investment costs of seasonal activity, and 12 reporting periods in other transactions. This will improve the administration of the value added tax and provide very normal compensation to tax payers for the added cost that they systematically carry out investment and expert transactions and reduce the risks of illegal tax compensation for the added cost. In order to stimulate economic activity to reduce the risk of illegal VAT compensation, the introduction of a reverse payment of the metal scrap metal transaction tax is also directed. Excise tax. The main innovation of the excise congregation is that from now on the issue of taxation is regulated by one tax rather than by six normative instruments. It is suggested that excise taxes be used to determine: alcohol, alcoholic beverages, beer, tobacco products, petroleum products, automobiles, motorcycles, trailers, car body parts. The practice of taxation of excise goods is preserved by branding them with the trademarks of the excise congregation. In order to stimulate the development of alternative fuels, a zero rate is set for bioethanol. Taking into account the need to improve tax administration, it is suggested that such tax control features in alcohol and vodka companies are defined: excise warehouses are active. The guarantee of payment of excise duty in the use of alcohol as a raw material for the production of alcoholic beverages, medical supplies, and organic synthesis products is a bill billed by the bank. The stamps of the excise congregation for alcoholic beverages bear the sum of the excise congregation paid. Taxes on the income of natural persons provide for the taxation of basic citizens’ incomes, such as: total monthly tax income, income from their origin in Ukraine, foreign income and income derived from sources outside Ukraine. There are a number of standards aimed at lowering the tax burden on citizens, such as increased social welfare benefits for those with a standard and social benefit of 100 per cent for those who support two or more children up to 18 years of age for each child; 150 per cent for single mothers or parents who support a child with disabilities for each child; for black people and other persons who benefit from the code; 200 per cent for Ukrainian heroes, 200 for Soviet Union heroes and so on. The draft Tax Code proposes to identify the following list of local taxes and congregations: advertising taxes, the collection of certain types of entrepreneurial activities, the tourist congregation, is kept instead of parking spaces and the market congregation, but this is until December 31, 2013. A simplified tax system for small businesses is maintained. For natural persons, single taxpayers, a valid rate of between 20 and 200 dollars and the ceiling of the proceeds of 500,000 dollars is maintained, for legal persons, the only tax rate is 6 per cent of the proceeds without VAT and the ceiling of the proceeds is increased to 2 million dollars. For small business entities, five - year tax vacations are introduced by setting a zero rate of single tax for individuals who carry out business solely from the provision of tax services and whose annual income does not exceed 300,000, for legal persons the amount of income per year does not exceed 100,000 dollars. Taxes are maintained by fixed agricultural taxes on farmers. The draft Tax Code provides for a number of special measures aimed at stimulating investment and innovation. This is a special taxation regime for operators that implement investments based on new energy-saving, environmentally-friendly and science-technological and special regimes in the implementation of various technology park projects. Both tax regimes provide preferences for operators that will involve investment in the scientific field of production, and they are involved in the development of high - tech, high - tech products. At the same time, the project provides for appropriate precautionary measures to prevent the use of these regimes for tax evasion. In particular, the accounting of the income tax for special accounts opened in the State Treasury’s local authorities for further use for technology parks. Equipment, equipment and equipment that are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine must be new and determined by an investment project, are not produced in Ukraine and are not subject to excise duties. In the event of non-target use, VAT and fines are paid to equipment and their accessories. One of the main funds of the Tax Code project is the systematized and structured rules for the administration of taxes, congregations, and other compulsory payments. A legal basis is created for the construction of a comprehensive tax administration system that includes the following elements: registration of taxpayers, acceptance and processing of tax reporting, provision of tax advice and clarifications to taxpayers on the application of tax legislation, prosecution of decisions by supervisory authorities, tax control, information and analysis services, tax payers, tax checks, debt repayment and liability for tax evasion of taxpayers and control bodies. These tax administration rules provide for: the establishment of a double system for the prosecution of decisions by supervisory authorities rather than a three-level one; the provision of advice to supervisory authorities on the practical application of specific tax legislation; the provision of tax clarifications by supervisory authorities when there is a large number of uniform requests for advice that are approved by orders and are in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and registered by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Approve, at the level of law, the conditions of return by mistake, or excessively paid taxpayer’s financial obligations. Enter a tax number that is the tax payer's account number instead of the payer's identification number. Obtaining information on the availability and movement of funds at the expense of a taxpayer, including a court permit. Setting up a transparent and clearly reasoned system of decomposition and deferral of tax debt for taxpayers. Establishing the possibility of decommissioning and decommissioning the taxpayer’s tax liabilities. Set the minimum and maximum limit on the size of the tax bond. Predict the submission of a declaration by large and medium-sized enterprises exclusively in electronic form. Set up a risk-based tax collection system for tax checks, including by developing and applying the criteria for the allocation of taxpayers at risk: high, medium and small. All of this will make Ukraine’s Tax Code a normative instrument that will facilitate the convenient and understandable application of its standards by both payers and control authorities, since it unites and codifies tax legislation. It will help avoid systematic changes in tax legislation, ensure its stability, contribute to the investment and innovation development of the economy, reduce tax pressure on taxpayers, tax-paying systems, and increase the budget's revenue from expanding the tax base and improving administration. The adoption of the draft Tax Code will ensure the creation in Ukraine of a fair, transparent and stable tax system that will create conditions for efficient economic functioning and successful economic reforms. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine, each of the people's deputies to support the draft submitted for your consideration and to approve the draft Ukrainian Tax Code, today as a basis and as a whole for the current session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u7	Thank you. Yes, please sign up for questions. Yes, the microphone please Chechov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u8	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! Indeed, for the first time in 10 years, we have moved from words to words. Since it began for 10 years each year with a solemn promise of the adoption of the Budget Code, the Tax Code and a new base, a new budget would be established on a tax basis. But there were only words. And for the first time, we are close to reality that a really new tax base in the form of the Tax Code will be adopted, and we will form a budget on a new tax base. Of course it's a very powerful system document. We saw Catherinechuck's document yesterday. There are also positive points, perhaps the second reading will have to be taken into account, but of course the fundamental bill is passed by you. The only proposal, and I would like to see a little more detail on the process of preparing for second reading. In general, I think we are going to vote in favour of this document that the country is waiting for, and the economy is waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u9	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for the offer and for the question. I promise you that, in fact, on the second reading, we will take into account all the suggestions that will be made, and we will improve the system that is being proposed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u10	Please, Alexander Bondar. Alexander Mikolayovich will not escape from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u11	Mr. Secretary, I have two specific questions. What tax rate will you announce from January 1, 2015, because 17 percent of you write from January 1, 2014 to December 31? What's going to happen on January 1st? And the second specific question. Call me one country in the world where interest is taxed on deposit and card bills that you tax 5 percent? In our banking system, with the trust of people to invest in banks, you're going to bet this percentage on 5 percent. If you postpone its entry until 1 January 2013, I assure you that by this time, there will be no deposits in the accounts, all the money will be taken from the banks, because the mistrust will be even greater. Here are two specific questions: the income tax rate of January 1, 2015, and in what country does the world still have interest rates on bank accounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u12	I'm going to start with the second question that in many countries, all of them civilized, there are these stakes, and they're being used. We're a country with a transition economy, so you've been introduced as a proposal. Let us consider, consider, read, consider, and consider your suggestions. What about the first question? What will be the income tax. The article is the 20th draft of the Tax Code, and we clearly have it all down here: the basic tax rate of 20 percent – from 01.01.2011. From 01.01.2012 the rate is 19 percent. From 1.01.2013 to 18 percent. From 1 January 2014 to 31.12. 17 percent is applied. It's still going to be that way. [[B in m in s a l in]] It applies, I'm telling you, as written in the draft Tax Code. 17 percent is going to be. 17 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u13	Trust the Minister. Cosub, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u14	I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u15	Honourable Feder Alexiyovich, the draft Tax Code provides for changes in income and expenses when determining the object of tax on income on the basis of accounting data. Will such innovation complicate the calculation of income tax liabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u16	And I want to tell you that this rule that we're proposing today removes the burden on the payer of double taxation, especially accounting, tax and duplication. In order to avoid this, we've just proposed a accounting system, and the accounting system will be used exclusively.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u17	Please, Alexandrovsky instead of Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u18	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Fedor Alexievich, three questions. First. Is there a zero VAT benefit for public organizations that produce: deaf, blind, etc., and disabled persons, organization of persons with disabilities? That's the first question. The second one right away. Whether a differential tax scale for high-income people will be introduced. Will luxury items be taxed? And the last one, the most difficult one can be. How do you react, and in this bill you have formulated your attitude towards special investment regimes? You know that a special law has been passed with regard to the city of Harkov. For many years this law has been in force, and we have received and contributed to the budget and paid good taxes. What's the attitude now? Will the special investment regime work, including for the city of Harkov? Does that mean anything? draft Tax Code? Three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u19	On the first question. That's the bet. On the second question. Yeah, scale. We're bringing it in. Yes, for pleasure, for pleasure. A scale for taxation of the income of natural persons. I think that's the question we're going to be with you. You're going to have a lot of suggestions, and we're going to look at it in the second reading. On the third question. Yes, we have proposed special tax regimes, there are procedures, and this will apply exclusively to all areas. Absolutely all areas that want to work in these conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u20	Kowal. Grabrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u21	Feder Alexiyovich, well, with all my respect for you, well, it looks like the unacceptable tax write-off is what? It's an unfair decision, isn't it? Actually. It's better to become a tax collector, not a businessman, not a manufacturer. The second question. You're going to court. I mean, it's not a principle of guilt you're constitutionally overstepping. Then there's a citizen survey. This is where such a novelty is, in what tax legislation of which other countries are such? Entering citizens' homes and defining their own. And the third question. He makes his own decisions without. a documentary check to be carried out by an inspector without the permission of his direct supervisor today. It's not a police regime. Well, Feder Alexiyovich, you can't do that! Answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u22	Thank you so much for such a good question. I can really bring you a lot of instruments about the United States, and France, Germany, the Netherlands. I'll even show you the volume, I have a lot of literature when I was working, I was still the first deputy head of the State Tax Service, head of the DPA. But we don't set a target. I am today, as finance minister, not as a fiscal tool today, but I propose that we have a tax code that will ensure that the development of the business centre, the citizens of Ukraine and the state is harmonious so that there is no conflict. What you're saying today is that you're offering novels, which, from the point of view of uninterrupted compression, there, going into the room, are for tax payers who avoid taxation. Sadly, today our country has many examples. And I want to tell you again that this is a project that we're putting into your consideration to take it as a basis. And we're going to keep working with you in the second reading, and we're going to have very intense discussions. I think there's a lot of suggestions that you're going to make today, and in the future, we're going to take them into account. So that's the basis, the base, because in the different tax codes that were leaking, I can give you examples, there were also some indirect methods. We threw it all away. Where in other countries, I'll give you an example, it's not that. It's a great honor, and they take the math model and figure out what your income is and how you live. They counted it, sent the declaration, and paid it. I didn't pay. They're taking everything away. We don't have it. Today is a very golden time for business to develop. And the draft Tax Code, which is proposed, is going to motivate the business community and all Ukrainian citizens. Taking into account your suggestions, we'll take them into account. And I think you're going to accept this bill -- and the citizens of Ukraine will be very grateful to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u23	Please, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u24	Mr. Minister, however, in the course of what Mr. Zebrovsky said. Well, it's really possible for those who pay poorly to take certain measures, but it's probably the decision of the court. And that's probably worth writing down. Because one thing, when the inspector does it himself, another thing, when he has permission, that's proved in court that he is, then another entirely. The second question I have is, look, well, was it worth developing a new codex? Why not take Catherinechuk’s code and apply it? We'd rather take it. And the third question is, look, you've got predictable zones that are free from taxation. Do you think that we can make effective use of this and that there will be no more abuse, tax evasion than real benefit? Well, you realize that Ukraine is not France, not just Russia, but not France, and it's a slightly different situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u25	Well, I completely agree with you about and should apply to unconscionable payers. Well, our legislation, which is, is in force today, allows you to enter into unconscionable payers, you know, some things that are called R & Ds, that's how they're being accompanied and all that. I mean, procedurally, I think we're going to take very much into account what you're going to bring in. So I think we're going to find a balance and a compromise that will satisfy both society and the fiscal authorities and the citizens of our Ukraine in order to have the laws in place for all of us to be equal, so to speak, before the law. And just as it was written in article 67 of the Constitution to make it. We have a very good record. As far as tax is concerned. concerning. Whatever coalition, I think we're adopting laws independently, which is a coalition, and today we should be proud that there is a coalition that will help us adopt key laws that haven't been passed in decades. With regard to the Codex Catherinechuk. He's very much. I've looked at it carefully, and I've looked at it many times, but it wasn't as we said at the morning meeting that we took something out there and made some innovations. Both the Budget Code and the Tax Code, the government has worked on all the positions that have been taken in our country and beyond. So the project, which is the Catherinechuk Codex, he also studied the innovations he's been making, I think he's going to make, and we're going to take them into account. But the bottom line is, so to speak, this is a system document developed by the government. And they made such a decision that they would develop a new Tax Code, bring it up to date and accept it. It's about SEZ's TPRs, that's all. I won't tell you again, take up a lot of time. Very.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u26	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u27	And they made such a decision that to improve the systems that had worked before, to take into account all the shortcomings, the lessons that had been learned from the previous operation of the relevant laws. And today's proposals make it impossible to avoid tax evasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u28	Thank you, Fedor Alexiovich, sit down, please. Let's hear it again from Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, his draft, the Tax Code bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u29	Good evening, distinguished national MPs! Good evening, voters! It is wonderful that we have started a meaningful discussion on tax reform and as the main instrument of this tax reform is the Ukrainian Tax Code. I hope there will be a Law on Changes to the State Tax Service. I also understand that the Ministry of Finance has carefully studied all the innovations, all the proposals that were made in the code that we wrote with entrepreneurs, with my colleagues, with the parties, and with those who deal with the professional issue of taxation. And I could say that by comparing two approaches, you could think of one such conclusion. You know, when officials write for officials, it's totally official. If entrepreneurs join this, there is some compromise. A working group was created in Minfin. There were also entrepreneurs involved, but none of these entrepreneurs, representing entrepreneurs in the working group, supported the second chapter of the codex, represented by Minfin. Why? I could say that if you wanted to control everything, you could control it, but the effectiveness of that would be zero. But in the administration of what's proposed, and that's how our codes differ, that we're still trying to strike a balance of responsibility between entrepreneurs and authorities, so that there's no distortion that entrepreneurs are responsible for their property and criminal responsibility, and that taxpayers are only responsible for the income part of the budget and nothing. So, let's say that we think we're already in the process of developing society, that entrepreneurs have stopped being afraid, stopped feeling like criminals, but it's still clear that entrepreneurs are a "holy cow" for any government budget, and it's bad that they've just given the command to go. Let's say you were my colleagues, because you wouldn't hear, probably the difference in administration. But I think if you stay, you'll realize that without restoring responsibility, you have a balance of responsibility to respond to your assets so that you have civilian responsibility for the damage done to entrepreneurs. I don't think we're going to build, let's say, civilized business relations and not be able to develop this business. Business is your responsibility, starting with how you communicate with entrepreneurs that you impose fines on them and what you continue to do with them. And in my mind, the philosophy that we've put into these relationships is, first of all, you have to help report to entrepreneurs without mistake, according to the payment of taxes. This is your main mission. And those who turn away wickedly are different approaches, and that's a different question. I understand you're leaving, then, if you need to, the Communists are asking you to leave. I think the main thing that we have to feel is because here, really, there is a conflict of interest, the state wants more tax collection, entrepreneurs want to pay less and make more. But we need to establish some consensus on this. And this consensus can start with the fact that the state has to create conditions so that we don't have a fictitious enterprise. But this does not mean that 80 or 90 percent of entrepreneurs under this code are already criminals. Why I say that, first of all, is the violation of articles 22 and 64 of the Constitution, where this code, which the government has introduced, allows for a narrowing of the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. The other one. The international commitments we made are being violated. Third. The principles of the Ukrainian President's deregulation and liberalisation of the enterprise are being applied, as noted in the reference note to Act No. 6517, which I think the government knows about. We also need to look at the differences that are in our version of the Tax Code, which is alternative and what is in government. For example, I will not touch everything because there is not enough time. Increase the number of extra tests times more than three. Why is that? Next. It is proposed to conduct pre-planned tax checks without a court decision. A violation of the right to remain in banking secrecy. Setting up an excessive and difficult accounting procedure. Setting up an excessive and difficult procedure for taking into account leases. The use of means of direct influence on business entities I mean, a tax can get the right, if you adopt a version of the Tax Code, to restrict any territory, factory, warehouse, commercial and other premises that are owned or used by the taxpayer and to file relevant acts on the results of such an examination. To examine the residence of a citizen or other property of a natural person if it is recorded in registration documents that record the place where the taxpayer is found or used by such payer to obtain income. The right to question the persons concerned and to call them to the service premises of the supervisory authority. And I'm not going to talk any more about search rooms, polls, document reviews, other premises. Because it's all in the complex. Similarly, the question of halting expenses from the bank accounts of taxpayers -- back to the old one. The main thing that concerns me is that today, according to the procedure set out in the second section of the “Administrative”, the entrepreneur actually making the declarations will, in fact, be placed in a discriminatory position. The inspector, looking at the contents of this declaration, may not accept it. In addition, he may impose certain sanctions after this declaration has been rejected for the timely or incomplete provision of information on the payment of taxes. Then he can ask questions about the liquidation of the enterprise, and then all the property belonging to the enterprise will be arrested by then and implemented in the favor of the State, the payment of taxes. If, earlier when the taxpayers arrived, there was an act, and the entrepreneur had the right to deny or agree with what was written in the act, that right was also denied today. More than 10 times the fines are increased on all matters of infringement of existing legislation. In article 7, paragraph 7, of Chapter 4, something came up with a rule on taxation of 5 percent of the taxes on personal deposits -- quite difficult. Generally speaking, if we compare these two bills, the question of responsibility from the 23 paragraphs of the second chapter 22 is the responsibility of entrepreneurs and only one point is the responsibility of the taxpayer, and it reads: “according to the law in force”. Well, that's, I take it, disciplinary responsibility, that's probably a catch. I realize there's still time, and I'd like to point out that, at the conceptual level, tax reform is not just a reduction, let's say, a tax rate, it's still administration number one. Even if we don't change the administration of the tax to the added value, this reform will be doomed to defeat. This tax is criminal, you know, it's holding back the possibility of export development, so today it's embarrassing to any government, because debt is only growing. I think Mr. Jaroshenko, as finance minister, was still in charge of the State Tax Administration, pointing out that it would still be necessary to change the administration of VAT. But somehow, in this document, you've given up on a radical solution to the VAT problem, and I would like it to be. The tax system is also simplified. Clearly, there are questions related to the fact that big business uses this simplified tax system to avoid paying taxes. But you didn't put any fuses there, you just settled the issue of pension contributions, but in a way that will increase the load for those who use a simplified system of taxation. Besides, I don't understand why you're not running an amnesty on capital. It's not in the code. But it's a complex norm that would allow us to expand the tax base today. In times of crisis, when you don't collect, that's 30 to 40 percent of the revenue plan, tax collects and is able to make tax amnesty, because they don't pay anyway. So let's do it today, but with zero bets to make everyone legal, except for the proceeds of weapons, drugs, prostitution, human trafficking, everything else has to be legalized. So why should this money be served by other economies that are now in offshore areas? Why? Let's create conditions for these capitals to go back and they were returned, and they were working for our economy. This is a question of a philosophical approach to tax reform itself. Because it can't be declarative, because now we've taken these 3,000 tax acts that regulate business, they've unified, and that's the end of the reform. That's not true. I think we have enough work to do, we have the experience of our colleagues in the Russian Federation, in Kazakhstan, in Georgia, who carried out similar reforms, and you know, they were giving their economic effect. So far, in the form that this bill is in the first reading, you can't accept it, you have to work on it. Because it's the first reading, and two weeks actually the whole business is big, small, medium is going to be in a state of shock. Because what's in the second chapter is what's in the other chapters, well, I think we need to work out, kind of. In another way, well, I wouldn't want us to conflict here and still have the opportunity to take advantage of those proposals that are coming from entrepreneurs right now. Our version of the Tax Code was widely discussed in the business community. And international organizations, European organizations, were making their assessments. Well, for example, the section on environmental taxes, we worked with the European Business Association. And we've put in the best experience of the European Union to stimulate the upgrading of basic manufacturing and cleaning facilities that would allow for safe production. Unfortunately, in the government code, well, we haven't seen the same approach. We hope that by the time we read the second reading, we will still be able to use it. Generally speaking, I don't know because she was supported by the Minister of Finance to adopt two of these codes in the first reading. On the basis of a committee to create a broad working group, and don't push it, you know, let's take it to nine. Let's work all summer, but let's go to a quality document that will bring us closer to European standards of business that will stimulate investment coming, because that's exactly what the President is saying and showing today. Let's support him in this. You're going to take the responsibility of bringing it into the hall today, and it's actually paralyzing work today for both taxpayers and entrepreneurs. Because they don't know how to keep working. And entrepreneurs say they won't be able to work. In order not to paralyze this system and give a positive signal to all business outlets in this, both the authorities and the opposition are taking part in this reform. And we're going to share this responsibility. And we're ready for this reform to serve business in better, let's say, standards that exist in the world today. Because the goal we've set ourselves is to create better business minds than there are on our country's borders. We have to do better than the Russian Federation than we do in Kazakhstan than in the European Union. Why? To be competitive in terms of investment. Because no of our capabilities to the National Bank, no credit facilities will replace our internal activity, citizens' self-employment, and the budget, and the social obligations that our country has in place. And the situation is a crisis. And we don't have the right to experiment today. Whether this tax reform is successful or not, it must be successful. But only when we listen to what entrepreneurs say. Because the authorities will always find a mechanism of coercion and, let's say, pressure, and they will be able to provide all their devices with the payment of corporate tax liabilities. Entrepreneurs today, without the sense of authority, on the part of the taxpayer, cannot be partners today, in crisis phenomena, to develop their own business. And they'll be completely closed. And from that we're going to increase people, first of all, we're going to reduce them, they're going to be unemployed. And we're just going nowhere. So, understanding that our version of the Tax Code, even though it has been discussed, but it has been a political decision not to take it, there is now another option. I would very much like to have a second reading with one vision, a conceptual vision of how to carry out this tax reform. Because different approaches, these are different positions, different positions, this is a different assessment of society, different estimates from a different point of view from a different point of view, because in different areas today there are, let's say, a different number of people, these are different approaches to a simplified system of taxation and the provision of 100 percent tax pay. This VAT, I'm returning to it, obviously it's economically unfavourable for our state, for our budget, it doesn't answer the question of how to balance the budget especially in a crisis. And what's left to do now? It's impossible to issue VAT bonds, but it's not possible to make any decision on this tax anymore, because it's going to be completely discredited, because VAT is still an export incentive. If we release these bonds, our ability to compete in export markets is stopped. Look what the Russian Federation did. Reduced from 60 days to 12 days of VAT return. Only the camera check goes through the documents. And now they realize that they leave the circulation costs in their businesses and allow them to compete in export markets. What are we doing with our exports? We're issuing five-and-a-half bonds, realizing that these are the papers that we're actually collapsing our export potential. How can this not be understood? I realize there's probably no other way out, because I got this inheritance, but you can't bury your exports like this. So we would insist from the opposition that the reformed VAT has taken its place in tax reform. The income tax has a lot in common, and I think they're right in terms of crisis and changes in depreciation rates, and certain investments, about income tax. But still, it seems to me that without the VAT issue, we are not going to make a full tax reform. Clearly, this is just the first step we've taken. But these first steps will answer the question, and whether we can, whether we have political will, we have a professional approach to making a tax system that will allow all entrepreneurs to feel that they need it, because it's a question of self-employment, but it's a question of restoring confidence in, let's say, power and investment. I still understand that the time is running out, and I would like to thank all the entrepreneurs who have taken part in the discussion and creation of this Tax Code, which is called the "Catherinechuk Tax Code". That's not true. There were over 200 people working there. And I wanted to thank you for the money that you've been saving for 50, 200 dollars. And in general, it was the first experience in Ukrainian history of lobbying the interests of most Ukrainian citizens. And we may not have been able at this stage to enlist the support of Yushchenk, Timoshenko, well now Yanukovich for adopting this option of reform. But I think we're only standing at the beginning of this process, and I'd like you not to give up because the main victory is that we've started talking about these things meaningfully, and this is the chance that we're going to do a normal reform anyway, if you're paying attention to the steps of power. Thank you for your attention. And I would still ask you, in your decision, to understand that without the adoption and the alternative in the first, let's say, reading the version of the code, we're going to make this tax reform that the government is proposing. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to count on your votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u30	But you've been asking him questions recently. Would you like that? All right, check it out. They've been questioning for two days. Yes, please, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u31	Mr. Reporter, I haven't been able to ask a question to the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, because they've set a standard that now taxes on deposits in the banking system are being introduced, but the reporter has said nothing that the bank should be providing information on any contribution to the tax inspection, and that can be bought on any market in Ukraine, and everyone in Ukraine will know how much money. How do you view this standard of actual bank breach? That's the first one. And once again, comment on unacceptable cheating one day, except for that. without the customer's consent, isn't that a violation of the customer's rights? I'm not talking about this 20th century anachronism anymore. And in your opinion, these novels will either help to restore trust and bring back the economic circulation of the tens of hundreds of billions of dollars that are currently in the hands of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u32	I would like to thank Martinyuk for being in such a humane mood today, and today he has given some opportunity to oppose himself. And thank you for the opportunity to speak. As for your question, it is absolutely right. You're asking the right question, because in your answers, well, there's already an understanding that it's not economically justified, from the point of view of the development of the financial system, it's ridiculous. And I'm sure your proposals will be heard by the Ministry of Finance, because in our version of the Tax Code, we didn't have that and we couldn't. And I think we need to be more insistent on these issues and prepare the necessary changes for the second reading to clean it up. As far as I know, there is agreement on this by the Ministry of Finance that the proposal will be considered not only by the authorities but also by the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u33	Please, Rudchenko Mikola. Prepare Slobodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u34	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u35	Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Dmitrovich, there is certainly no need for any support from your sincere desire to improve the tax system, for there is no one here who does not consider it necessary to improve it. In this context, I have the first question, it's not of a Moroccan nature, it's of a serious nature, or it's not serious about any bill. Please tell me how many men in your NU-NS faction will support you, and whose support you can enlist, because this is a serious indicator, the seriousness of any bill. And the second question of a meaningful nature, I put it to the head of the budget committee. Mikola Dmitrovitch, as you suggest, changing the situation when the central offices of enterprises are in Kiev, they pay taxes here. And where they're drying up ecology, where there's low wages in people in different regions of Ukraine, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u37	Well, actually, from the second question I'm going to start with, it's more serious and more pleasant, so I think that's the approach that today is DPA, because they're also uncomfortable with tax administration when the central office is here, and the enterprises are there, and there were suggestions about, still, where there's basic production, there's a legal address. And by the way, here we are in the area of local taxes, we did offer environmental taxes that this fragmentation would also be on the side of local taxes, and the local authorities had the opportunity to set and regulate the issue of land pollution, their estimates, and, let's say, those budgets that need to be designed to make the environmental situation better. As far as she's concerned. Everyone who is not an enemy of Ukrainian entrepreneurship and Ukraine is supported. And I would like the same position to be in the majority's deputies, because it's not, let's say, my personal interest is political interest. That's why I'm not giving up. You broke in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u38	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u39	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You're just a humanist today. You made my paper yesterday, I understand why. Because you had to show that authority that you didn't have to talk about other things -- do things. You're doing the job. But I'm not giving up. I've registered an alternative, and I want the idea of entrepreneurs involved in tax reform. And I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u40	Free. Prepare for Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u41	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mikola Dmitrovic, in the 1970s there was this French film: "Frozen." And, you know, there were, like, a couple of decades of people who had been frozen and then appeared in another century. And I have this feeling that the ideologies for the development of the Tax Code have been out there for a couple of decades. And today there is a game at the same door against those who create national benefits and pay taxes. And in my opinion, these proposals by the government are divergent with the President's statements. Tell me exactly what you'll say about the Tax Code. Where does he take us, Europe, or in the 1930s?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u42	Well, let's say that this document has nothing to do with the European Charter of Tax Relations, where the basic principles are set up. building any tax system. Well, there's this impression that along with the political vertical, there's also an economic vertical. And I'd like to draw the attention of the honourable deputies from most of them, you all don't run to Azarov. And for you, any taxpayer will be a god, a king, and a capital cat. So look carefully, don't miss those things, you need to have a balance of responsibility, so that the entrepreneur doesn't feel like a criminal, and that's the right thing to do. The more freedom, the more man develops, the more national wealth is created, the more money we can give to our pensioners. So I think common sense should still be on your side and self-preservation should give you a chance to read it anyway. Read, especially chapter two, what is proposed. Let your accountants read. If they come to you without a Valerian, well, I'm wrong, I am. I may be wrong, but they'll come to you with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u43	Please, Parish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u44	Please pass the word for the question of Kseniya Liapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u45	Xenia Leapina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Here, Mikola Dmitrovitch, I would like to point out that today Ukraine continues to negotiate the association of Ukraine – the EU – and this also imposes certain obligations on us to civilise our tax legislation. If we look at the approved 2010 Social and Economic Development Programme, there are also wonderful goals, such as reducing workload and administrative pressure. That's what we read in the President's program there, which speaks of the liberalisation of the economy and the reduction of pressure. And when I read two papers -- your document and the document that the government is proposing -- I see that your document is much more in line with all these three directions. Because it contains such administrative positions that balance the interests of the state and the entrepreneur that enable civilized relationships.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u47	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u48	I'll finish the sentence. Civilized relations between taxpayers and entrepreneurs. At the same time, in the government code, we see a tremendous increase in administrative pressure. What code do you think is more in keeping with our European aspirations?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u49	In fact, we used to create this codex that I, with your permission, introduced as, let's say, an alternative, we did take a European experience. Because, as we understand it, citizens in the European Union have the highest social product, i.e. the standard of living, the level of income much higher. We need to create something similar, and we need to make a more modern approach. And that's why, for example, on VAT reform, we've gone further than we are in the European Union today, but they're conducting an experiment on VAT on the unilateral action that Teryochin proposed. In Austria an experiment has already been carried out, quite successful. I expect that the development of this tax will still be in the direction of a unilateral VAT. And as a matter of fact, yes, this document, which is now the main document, is a violation, a direct violation of the act of order of the daily association of Ukraine-EU. I think we should pay attention to that if the President has defined it, and I support it in that our strategic direction is still the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u50	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u51	Dear Nikolai Dmitryevich, I would like to address you as the leader of a party called European. This is the European Party of Regions, which is essentially a European Party. One million 300,000 members of the Party of the Regions deeply, well, I feel offended, and regret that the Government of Yulia Timoshenko has not considered your code for two years. But your work has not failed. Your document has been a powerful impetus to the development of a more serious, more fundamental, more global, more powerful bill submitted by Kabmin. I spoke yesterday from the rostrum, I spoke quite frankly, and today I asked Fedor Alexeevich the question that, after the first reading of the Government's bill, it is imperative to take into account your reasonable proposal and therefore to go out on a bill that will be adequate to today's economic realities and give us a perspective for economic development. I therefore propose to support the Government's bill and to submit it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u52	It's a good wish, I understand. Let Jojik ask you a question, and then you're done. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u53	Adam Ivanovich! I don't recognize you, but I'm so glad you're such a humanist today, I'm just thrilled. As the leader of the European Party of Ukraine would like to say to that party that thinks it's European, let's do it this way, if you're so serious about European standards for the development of society, let's still adopt two bills in the first reading, in the first reading. Let's do one and go out on the second reading with each other. It's like an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u54	Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u55	Jaroslav Dojodzik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mikola Dmitrovich! In his time, the previous president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, spoke publicly to Victor Cronomyrdini about the fact that it was impossible for the Führers on customs to rule our states. At the same time today, the followers of the previous President Leonid Kuchma want to make real owners of those owners who are already on the DAI, the owner of the DAI, still host the real lives of tax inspectors. Do you not think that this approach can have a killer effect on the entire Ukrainian economy?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u56	I agree with you in the last part that if these rules are implemented, the administration of taxes, we're really going to have a catastrophic situation in the economy. Because the budget isn't just big businesses, it's export-oriented, it's still small, it's medium-sized. And what they do with the question of employment, the state should bow down to them, that most people are not on the labour market right now. And here's a completely discriminatory approach with increased workload on small, medium-sized businesses, it's unacceptable. So I think that my proposal, which is that, let's take two bills on the first reading, send them to the committee, work together to get a quality document that brings us closer to European standards of business, is right. I would like the national MPs and the pro-European parties to hear about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Anatolyevich Teryohin, head of the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u58	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I will not delay you for long, I would just like to remind you that this bill is being considered today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in violation of articles 100, 101, 107, 108, 109 and 112 of the Supreme Council Act. Earlier today, a group of national deputies appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court to press charges against the Supreme Council’s decision adopted two days ago to review the bill today. To the extreme, I can tell you that this will be the first precedent to look at the unconstitutionality of adoption, the procedure for adopting this bill, which has already been adopted once by the Constitutional Court on the Anti-crisis Law on Agriculture. That's why there's a precedent, I'm just warning you. The committee did not meet and would not meet, since the original bill had not yet been registered in accordance with the Rules 14 days after the registration of the original bill. And therefore, unfortunately, only one alternative bill by Mr. Catherinechuk was registered yesterday. Now let me do a little bit of essentially. We were told today that we were adopting a code, you know who said - wrong. Because what we've been given today is not a code. The code is a harmonised system of terms of general, special, and procedural parts of some social relationship. In this law or in a document, for example, there is an eclectic collection of various laws, a variety of terms that are not linked to each other, primarily in glossarys and procedural parts. In this law about five times, attention has been increased by the number of expulsions prohibited by the Constitutional Court two years ago from the Supreme Council to the Cabinet of Ministers of Other State Authorities. So, roughly speaking, this code of indirect action, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code of conduct, this code Another thesis. Dear friends! For the first time since '94, believe me, because I've been in the process of drafting these tax laws since '92, a system is being introduced for which the taxpayer is not protected from anyone at all. How is it being done today? If there is a dispute between the tax inspector and the tax payer, there is an administrative or judicial appeal procedure. And only after this administrative procedure has been completed can criminal proceedings under article 212 of the Criminal Code on tax evasion be opened. What is suggested in this codex? I'd like you to read this part of the room carefully. Is this how the inspector comes to the physical or legal person, including indirect methods that you know by whom? Right is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After that, 10 days are given to pay this tax liability. In the event that this tax liability is not paid on the 11th day, it involves criminal liability and then the taxpayer can only go to court and argue his innocence, more faithfully deny the presumption of his guilt, i.e. it is clearly against the general approaches contained in the Constitution of Ukraine. We were told a beautiful story about the decline in corporate income tax. Dear friends, I advise you to show your accountants the base on which these 20 percent plus 5 percent are local allowances. Right, on the base. Yesterday we ended up manipulating the depreciation of the core funds and the write-off of the TMC, and it turns out that an effective tax rate will not be 20, dear friends, if you compare it now, but 31. So the effective rate of tax increases by a third of what we've been told. VAT. Let's see. The chapter “VAT ” is twice as big today as the law in force! Double the text. There is no relation to the 112 directive of the European Union, which deals with value added tax, this chapter has no absolute value. So we don't have to talk about any UPS with the European Union, or agreements, or associations at all. Now let's look at small and medium business. Clearly, it has already been said that large companies use the ability to pay fixed taxes, or the only tax, to minimize their income. But look how it's done now. Not so that they don't use it, they'll use it, because the fuses aren't installed. And in order for a smaller number, we could count about 1.4 million people in general using a simplified system of taxation. The main concept, I'd like to repeat again, is that unlike the Catherinechuk code, which is also not perfect enough, let's speak frankly, and the government code is one, the government code is aimed at supporting a small number of large corporations. And tax collection on a large number of payers or hired workers, or small business. That's the difference between philosophical and worldview. And I'd also like to mention, in the end, my dear friends, that you can't have the kind of Talmud that affects millions of families in both the budget and in the company, accept as we're asked -- put it down on July 9th. If we're going to put the 9th of July second reading, Feder Alexiyovich, let's say, let's do this: go to the Supreme Council right now so that this Talmud can be adopted in general today, and then don't go out by the end of the year with any suggestion of changing it, so that the people can look at the degree of economic thinking and prudence of the government that prepared this kind of thing. Well, from the point of view, and finally, I can say. It was fate that forced me, for example, not to write tax laws, but to force me to. That's how they've been doing since 1992. For the first time, I see that such key issues of economic development in the country are being dealt with so quickly and so carelessly. You can vote for the first reading again like that, and so it will probably be. But I'm sure until the second reading, as untainted as this document is, it's going to stay. And another trailer. You remember, we recently passed Law 6337, thank you very much. What happened? First, when it was filed by the government, two thirds of the law had to be changed. Do you remember the first and second columns? After the government, Feder Aleksyyovich, out of voice here, overruled a lot of comments, the coalition voted in favour of these remarks. The law was passed and the document was signed, and yesterday it came into effect. But what does the President do? Realizing what's written there? He introduces the law to the Supreme Council two days ago with a request to cancel all the additions that Feder Alexiyovich gave to the Supreme Council. So once again, dear friends, I urge everyone to read this thing to the accountants. To make a deliberate decision about her fate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u59	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! I'm just because I'm humane today, I've given the opportunity to speak to the committee head, despite the fact that the committee has not considered the issue. Sit down, Sergey Anatolyevich, sit down. He spoke without consideration. Please, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, 3 minutes, as an alternative to the idea because he said to the head of a committee that had no meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm sorry. I'd like to explain what happened. And I don't understand what an alternative is. Because there's a committee's opinion. And today I was preparing to report the committee's opinion. So yesterday, according to the regulations, a committee was convened under the Supreme Council Committee Act, article 43. One third of the members of the committee were urged to do so. The corresponding signatures are in the Secretariat. After that, most of the committee met. I mean, 12 people's deputies. They elected the chairman — me as the first deputy. And there was, there was a meeting, in accordance with the legislation. That's why I, Adam Ivanovich, would like to ask you first of all to give the committee secretariat the order, to figure out how this situation happened. Because we don't know why we have the Supreme Council Rules and why do we have the Committees Act if it's still doing what it's doing out there, in the offices, in the towers of the Committee Secretariat or the Supreme Council. Then, essentially. Of course, there is criticism, and there is a reference to the law. And yesterday, at a committee meeting, the national MPs made comments. And there's also a reference to the scientific expertise of the Supreme Council that we have and that we've become acquainted with. This text, in general, appears on page 24, to be large, but it must be understood how great the Tax Code, which unites all the tax laws of Ukraine. In general, all these comments relate to the definition of terms, questions that need to be improved in connection with the numbering of articles in the draft. Misunderstandings about the structure of the Tax Code and other mainly technical matters. There are also different principles regarding the subject matter of taxation and individual tax matters. But the committee generally appreciated the draft Law on the Tax Code of Ukraine. Why? First of all, because there's a decline in the number of public and local taxes and congregations. If it's in numbers, it's national from 28 to 19, if it's local from 14 to 5. Second, it's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u61	Finish up Vitaliy, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u62	the tax burden is reduced. And if anyone can talk about whether it was small or small or not at all, but in a period of crisis that has not yet ended, taking steps that have been announced in this project today is also a responsible step. [[Feder Alexiyovich announced them from the rostrum]] This applies to VAT – 3 percent, and this applies to income tax again – up to 17 percent with new innovations to leave 5 percent in the regions. This will stimulate local communities to work with businesses to make businesses profitable and contribute in every way possible. There's a lot of rules that I just don't have enough time, I can't all go over and overemphasize, but those standards that apply to stimulating investment and innovation. Again, new proposals already being made in Europe, such as innovative tax credit and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u63	Thank you. Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u64	I'm done, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u65	The codex has already been discussed. Come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u66	The codex was spoken of on one side, and on the other side you can't hear. I'm done, literally. According to the committee, the bill under registration number 6509 recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it in the first reading. And all those remarks that the national MPs have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Please sign up for factions. Because you're two of the same committee and you don't know what you're talking about. You had three minutes, you say six minutes. Factions, please. Yes, please. You've never heard a word of it before. Yes, please, once, two, three, 30 minutes, please, Kralikov, behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u68	May I help you, Adam Ivanovich? Thank you. The distinguished people's deputies, if they put everything “for” and “against” on the weights of the decision and the code, of course, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading, because there is a clear shift on the data that all factions today have heard on the side of such a decision. But you all understand that instead of 28 laws and over 220 regulations, we do have a single set of laws that we can then work on and extend the adoption of rights on second reading, and no one further chooses the right of national deputies to edit this sub-legislative act. You can see very well that instead of the 28 laws of the State, the tax return of the general government remains 9 instead of 14 locals, that is to say, there is a reduction in the tax burden on entrepreneurship as a whole. Along with the Code of Budgets, the Tax Code also has a more equitable approach to local budgets. You have seen today that local budgets will receive up to 50 per cent of the charges for the subsoil, 50 per cent for the use of forest reserves and other income, i.e. enough incentives, including for local budgets. Minfin took into account in the Transport Tax Code, which was still in dispute at the time, a bill on transport fees, which was adopted by Parliament under Simonenko and Martinyuk, in which the transport charge for motorists with up to 2.5 thousand cubic metres remained virtually the same, while the owners of Mercedes cubes would pay a higher tax and that is also the principle of fairness signed in a single act. There are, in principle, questions about the act itself, it is not ideal and, as the Minister has assured us, and the Deputy Minister that, for the second reading in two weeks, we will be able to impose all our rights there, assemble a working group with representatives and villagers, and insurance businesses, and bankers, and develop a normal sub-legislative act, including in the light of the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office of Parliament. For example, we have a question about why, in a population of 200 to 3,000, land taxes are imposed on land. You know, for some peasants and some of our grandparents, Grandparents are the only way to feed themselves. There are also issues to be taken into account by Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko on differentiated rates of income. Nevertheless, we hope that both Minfin and the Committee will fulfil their obligations — and for second reading, we will receive a normal act, but submitted by the State, not the name brands of Catherineczuk, Láško and so on. I am very pleased today that it was the opposition and your leaders who did not allow you to adopt the law at the time: neither Timoshenko nor Yushchenko – are finally progressing and have come to the collapse of this legislation without a checker.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u69	Please, Plonikov, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He's got Jebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u70	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Our faction will certainly support the government bill. And here is a simple and logical explanation: on June 3rd, the President of Ukraine announced an economic reform course, where, among other things, tax reform in the country is being implemented. Prior to the adoption of this bill, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine held an appropriate government committee that approved the concept of tax reform in the country. And that tax code that is being considered in the hall today is just the first step in tax reform in the country, the first, but really a very important component of this tax reform. If you look at the general view of the tax system, you have to be transparent, clear, logical, and respond to the European factors that the Ukrainian state wants, as well as the Ukrainian national economy. The authors of this bill set a rather specific but logical goal: to make it more convenient to pay taxes than to avoid them rather than optimize the payment of those taxes. If you look at innovations, it's already been repeatedly said that this bill reduces VAT from 20 percent to 17 percent, and it decreases income tax from 25 percent to 20 percent, and then for years to 16 percent. The situation with excise goods, excise taxes, and local taxes and congregations are being reduced. It is also possible for citizens to feel the simplicity and logic of personal income tax schemes. For example, the scale of 15 percent of income on personal income is maintained and money, such as 10 percent on the income of miners, miners, and rescue workers, is also very important. In addition, the bill contains a number of other money. In fact, I can agree that there are some ambiguous treatments here, there is criticism both by the opposition and by the representatives of our faction and coalition. But at the same time, there's a suggestion: to support this in the first reading, so that we have all the possibilities to work out and vote in favour of the logical, necessary, necessary document for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u71	Thank you. Paul Zebravsky, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Soboljevo. Shadow boy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u72	Pavel Žebrovsky, “Ukrainian Platform”. Dear colleagues, this bomb, which is called the Talmud and so on, is actually a bomb under the economy of Ukraine. I think that someone, even from the Party of Regions, speaking up and saying that with great disgust, but going to vote for this bomb, they're making a huge, cardinal mistake. Today, this law cannot be upheld even in the first reading. Because there are completely different things in the world. You get a business for tax, not a business tax. Today's a good day. The most profitable business is to be in the tax administration. So the businessman who has his own production, he's going to have to raise money, buy a tax office, and he's going to be great, he's going to have a very efficient business. You have to look at this Talmud with horror, because both in the material part and in the material part, things are just incompatible with common sense. The projected tax drop is the 12th, the 14th year, right, the income tax is declining. on VAT to 17 percent, from 15 percent, returns to 20th, 12th, 14th, decreases in taxes, VAT, income tax to 19th, but then returns from 15th to 20th and plus five percent, so-called, local assemblies. Thus, there is no reduction in tax burden. The second question. What the head of the committee said. The fact that today, after depreciation and in other directions, the tax base is increasing, so the income tax is essentially going to increase in the end, the income tax. Today, we need to look at the final position. And where the 9th in small business is written: delete article 9. What does that mean? If you rule out, it's all small business. And market workers in the market will be obliged to have cashiers. That's the 3 million small businesses that care so much, including the Party of Regions. Now for tax administration. It's completely ridiculous. A tax collector came to you, counted how much you wanted under so - called indirect methods, set you up with what you had to pay. I didn't pay you. It's a criminal matter. It's dangerous to be a businessman today, to be a manager of a business. Dear friends, it is unlikely that this bill can be corrected for second reading. To my profound conviction, we all have to re-read this bill. Work hard, you don't want your opposition, work with yours. And bring a bill to the session room that will allow you to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u73	Thank you. Senchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the country is rolling down for 100 days, industrial production is falling, and value added tax debt is rising. I hope that those strong economists who are being talked about and who today constitute the Government of Ukraine have made some conclusions, have carefully read the Tax Code, the draft Tax Code. And unfortunately, I have found that the concentration of power in our country is much higher than the concentration of thought. I mean, not to be loud, to be honest, just wild. And they start with general provisions, and then they just go straight to the dragon section of Administration, and some things have been honestly pointed out. Article 4. 1 / 1 What In the General Provisions, the equal rights of taxpayers. It was recalled that taxpayers could not be discriminated against according to social, racial, national and religious affiliation. They did not honestly say that they would not discriminate on political grounds, but they did every day. I want to say that this is a promise that in second reading we will find compromises there and correct something, a great doubt, because I read that version of the Tax Code last week, it's from the bottom of the government and the one presented to the Supreme Council. In a week's time, I'll give you an example. Paragraph 3.5. “General provisions”: “The interpretation of tax laws and other legislation governing tax relations by tax authorities is not compulsory for taxpayers”. It was the norm a week ago that we were offered no more. So the evolution of thought is also understandable. What the tax inspector can come and search any apartment, any citizen in our country today, that's what the colleagues have already talked about. In the “Administrative” section of paragraph 4.4., the taxpayer is liable even if he has not received the tax service requirement. They sent him, he didn't get it, but he'll answer anyway. Paragraph 21.4 of section “Administrative”, obligation to bring what will be done. In one word, I will not repeat these many thoughts, they have already been spoken of, but I want to say one thing, we expected everything from Azarov, but we had some illusions about Tigypto, we looked at the roller coasters and today, this codex of Azarova-Tigipco, it deprives the country and deprives the business of all illusions. I would like to conclude that this is a direct path towards business bankruptcy, bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u75	Please, Oleg Zarubinski, get ready for Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, starting with positive, it is the very form of consideration of today’s issues, since I do not remember that tax legislation and the budget were not considered together, and it should be. That is, what we are today both the Budget and the Tax Codes consider is an absolute benefit. One second. You know, the aggravation of the tax system is a very difficult thing to do, it has to be tough. In the United States, the word "tax inspector" all begin to shake hands, too, in Europe. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just sit tight. And this is also true in Europe, but there is a question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Shut up, take your President of the former and deal with him as he worked with the tax system, close your mouth. I'm asking you to add this because she's in the way, and I'm not in the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u77	You don't pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u78	Enurez is a political man. So what I'm saying is that those who pay taxes aren't enough to have fear, Mr. Secretary, they have to see this tax system as fair. And here's the question, a serious question, one of them was raised, but I don't want it to go anywhere. People have lost what they have in banks, some have not been able to take or trust the state. The introduction of a 5 percent tax rate for people who have invested continues to be trusted by humans is simply impossible. This burys the banking system, and I don't care about the banking system, it burys people's trust in the state, and they're not going to work, not just businessmen, because there's budgets and everything. The next moment. The issue of the tax inspector being able to make a decision, entering a citizen's home is simply impossible, which is contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution, which refers to the inviolability of housing. This cannot and must be removed. In any case, if a person is only afraid of a tax collector, but does not consider that, nevertheless, it is fair to him and another businessman, such a tax system will not be implemented. It seems to me that before the second reading, and Minfin should be interested in this, we need to change a lot of norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u79	Please, Bondar Alexander. Be prepared for Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u80	Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. We have heard many speeches today, and there are almost no positive reviews of this Tax Code. And the paradoxical situation is that it's all going to be accepted in the first reading. The fact that something can be changed to a second reading is very small, because the principles of the bill's position are clearly directed at not having a middle class in Ukraine. If there's no middle class, there's going to be a lot of people who depend on power, that's budget organizations, and the fixed salary that the State is waiting for, and another small part of the big business that's going to work on one chapter of this bill -- about special economic zones, all the rest will just be eliminated. All the examples cited in this codex confirm my words. We're talking as a big achievement, the government says that taxes are falling, the government has already confirmed that they are declining, and the government has already confirmed that they are shrinking by 2015. I think it's a conscious mistake since 2015 to have an election and then it won't have to be reduced, it'll come back. But the question isn't in the tax rate, it's in the way they're going. Today, no one pays taxes at the tax rate, and everyone is given assignments in absolute form. And that's what all businessmen know about in this country. So what difference does it make? 25, 20.15, if everything comes to you and they say pay the tax in absolute form, because we have a planned job down from Minfin. And what will change with the adoption of this Tax Code? No more is the responsibility of tax collectors to collect taxes than the law provides for and does not provide for this legislation. Much has already been said about the introduction of interest on deposits. Well, that's nonsense, isn't it? Indeed, people have already paid taxes on these savings, contributed them to their deposits, endured what was done with the banking system, and yet to you, get thanks from the state, we'll take 5 percent of you! [[It's legal money, illegals don't take it to our banks.]] Well, it's not a problem that they're going to take 5 percent of where this data is going to go and then how it's going to be used. Who will guarantee that the tax inspector will not trade data on your account, and people will not then meet you on the street and ask for money, or your children will not be taken hostage after that. Who guarantees the secret of these deposits, which in all civilized countries are such? So to say that this codex can be adopted in the first reading is absurd. And I would like, as a representative of the opposition, to get it into effect more quickly and the entire population will see what they've been led to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u81	Yes, please, Paul’s Soboljeva passed on to Karmazin to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u82	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Here one of our colleagues said that in America and in the countries of Europe, in the word "taxer", and I can add "policeman" and others, some have legs shaking. Yes, indeed, or hands. But this is because if you don't encourage a policeman or a tax collector in these countries, you're not going to get any worse. That's how these systems are different. Now let us examine what the government of Azarov and Mr. Tihypco has offered us in the Tax Code as responsible for reforms in this country. The first novel, which is nothing more than a return to the “arzaurdom” because of unacceptable cheating. But let's remember, eight years ago, Azarov's unique method, which was suggested for unacceptable cheating when they came in, counted, cheated, and then went to court and prove that you didn't do it. Some proved it, some became bankrupt after that, and the one who even proved it couldn’t pay it back for years. This first is a return to a fine, learned lesson in unacceptable cheating. It's different. In the end, we introduced a principle that relates to the harmonization of tax liabilities. Which allows the tax inspector and taxpayer to understand clearly where there is a limit beyond which we cannot go. This is a unique principle that operates throughout the world, including in the European Union, in fact, this law has been repealed. Third, which is equally important. We have the first law repealing the Constitution because it introduces the principle of presumption of guilt. When a person directly engages in entrepreneurial activities, no matter who he is, they say that they are fighting in small businesses, protecting a large one. No, it's not. They beat at both of them. He must prove that he is not guilty of any wrongdoing. And the taxpayer who, according to current standards, is supposed to do it -- he's not going to do it now. And an entrepreneur will go to court to prove that he has no tax violations. The fourth thing is, I think, scary in this principle. Liquidated benefits to some categories. But some categories have created benefits. And you didn't notice, and why are they the owners of five-star hotels, according to the Government Tax Code, not paying income taxes? Tell you how many individual activities will be registered at five - star hotels? And how will this end? What's this going to do in what's called technogenic parks, or what's going to end up like in priority areas? We will return to the uncompetitive struggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u83	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. Behind him, Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". You know, if there was another country with which to experiment, if this people were not sorry, I would now vote for the first and second readings. So you can see right away. You can see it immediately. Her God, well, only holds one. It keeps what's left after that. Once after Hmelnicki, there was a ruin when some Cossacks were hired to destroy others. And that's what happened. Even after the canopy battle, that was the case. All right, here comes the ruin, but in the land. And that's when in the Russian Federation, where it's about the same old technology, equipment, everything else, they're moving forward. They're getting the VAT back, they're getting everything. And now, in competition, we're going to lose you. So I can see who the gentlemen who did it are working for right now. Now, about that document we have. Well, that's what we're told, the codex. Let's see what normal people in Science and Technology say. They say, no, it's not a code. Not a codex at all! I quote: “He does not actually have the general part that belongs to such legislative acts.” So it's something else. What is it? I quote: “At the same time, the analysis of the project indicates that there is a tendency, not to reduce the array of legislative norms, but to increase them. In particular, the scope of the draft text is 567 pages, and in the section dealing with VAT taxation, several articles are three times higher than the valid added-cost tax law.” Ladies and gentlemen, three times as big! Well, that's the end of it. What are you doing? Apart from the presumption of guilt, all that you've said, except for the disclosure of the bank's secret, except for access to everyone you do?Oh, my God! You have even gone to the point that the tax court will be compulsory and final! You read what you write! You enter in Article 183 with badge 4. You write: “The court’s decision to satisfy the requirements of the State Tax Office is final and is not to be charged.” What about the Constitution?Oh, my God! An appeal and a cassation charge. I see you crawled into the second, the Administrative Code, 183 with the badge 2. Shortcut for implementation is in order. Two days, all right, no charges. Ladies and gentlemen, where did you learn to eat so much? And at least give your regions to other committees, let them give you an opinion. It's a master's code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u85	Thank you. No, we're done. Baldirev. I don't see Baldiriev. It's coming through. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please. No, no. And there's Baldirev, yes, please. You're done, don't abuse me. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. I didn't give it to anyone, and you won't get it. Baldirev, please, from the microphone, from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u86	It's impossible not to answer that. In his time, the great Russian poet Alexander Sergeyevich Griboedov wrote: “And the judges who?” Imagine. Thus, the history of Ukrainian taxation began with several decrees written by two giants of economic science. One of them recently spoke from this rostrum, but unfortunately he left the hall, his name was Serezha. And the second giant is Pinzenic, his name is Victor. You remember everything if those who are over 25 at least remember these brilliant works that came out of their pens and were signed by Mr. Kuchma. And how the entire Ukrainian economy has rejected these decrees and these decrees on VAT and other taxes. Well, the best is always the enemy of the good. And there is no doubt that today's project has its flaws, but it was written by its people, unlike those economic giants, and that's why I think this code will work. And the disadvantages that remain in our society under any code are the dishonesty of businessmen and the dishonesty of those who examine these businessmen and are not a disease of the economy, the disease of the whole society and the treatment it needs by other methods, so stop the demagogies, gentlemen, and vote in favour of the code that the Government proposes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u87	Yes, Fomin. Fomin's handing over Tomenka. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I'm not an expert in tax matters, but journalists have paid attention to one very interesting thing, and I'm going to have to respond to it because I'm going to talk about an idea that our team has been trying to implement over the past few years, and what a pleasure it is that the President and the Prime Minister have been saying over the last few months that it's a matter of honor for them that the rich have to share with the poor. It's about us, our team, trying to really share the rich with the poor and offering to put a tax on luxury, on real estate. We voted twice in this session room, and BUT and our Ukraine were unable to make this decision twice. After the President and Prime Minister said, I firmly believed that the government would offer this, and there would be new taxes, not for small and medium -sized businesses, but for the rich. And what the journalists pointed out was that as early as Tuesday, the “explanatory note” contained a real estate tax, it predicted they took a correspondingly serious tax from apartments of more than 300 square meters, from buildings of over 500 square meters. But on Tuesday night, on Wednesday, this tax went away. Now, I have a question: how can a "explanatory note" to the fundamental tax code of the Supreme Council disappear tax for the rich from Tuesday to Wednesday? So, well, for me, I think it would be interesting to investigate how we do. If between the first and the second readings, I'm assuming that there's going to be 20 new ones for ordinary people, and they're going to disappear for rich people. So, of course, I'm going to make this proposal for a second reading, because it's a unique situation. Both Timoshenko and Yanukovich and Azarov all gathered here in this position, only at night it disappears. I think it's really fair that the richer people themselves would have to pay a tax on luxury. This is what Ukrainian society requires. And the tax should not be written for its people, but should be written for those who would justly have to make such a social contribution to the general budget. Today it seems that the Tax Code is written for ordinary people, the Tax Code is written for small businesses, in the sense that they should pay more, but the Tax Code has passed the richest people. And it's not just injustice -- it's just the opposite of the rhetoric that we've been listening to over the last period. So I'm convinced that between first and second reading, justice will be restored, and the richest people will also pay taxes instead of taking taxes from the poorest people, or from small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u89	Thank you. The discussion was concluded, please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, respectable colleagues, respectable colleagues, two moments. First, I would also ask that, in preparing for the second reading, they should be strictly legal, because there is now a separate numbering of their parts in each chapter, so that they do not confuse that chapter five of article one and chapter seven of article one, so that the general numbering is as required in legislation. The second is what we talked about in the Budget Code, it's about really being a codex and not making any changes to other laws. It's going to have to be isolated. I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Tax Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 6509) is government. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[18:03:27]] For 247 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u90	The factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u91	And with motive. The Party of Regions – 169, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 22, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 7, communists – 27, "Clock of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 3. Please, Karmazin, with a motive, and let's continue, we have a few more questions. In general, there is a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now voted in favour of mass violations of the Constitution. In particular, the 62nd and 22nd articles of the other Constitution will be violated. Because of this, I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to put this on a committee of law that would conclude on constitutionality. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to add to this law a list of all those who voted in favour and add a supplement that they are freed for 10 years from checks. Adam Ivanovich, you're the chairman of this anti-constitutional law for 20 years. But since I know you don't have a business, then you can sell this right, like the Kyoto Protocol, you understand how air is sold. This way. But, Adam Ivanovich, I'm not joking. We're destroying the state. And your observation that there should be no change to the other laws, I ask you to form an expulsion order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to return to the Act on the inclusion in the Order of the Day Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Single Social Contribution. Please support the proposal to return the vote. [[18:05:31]] For 238. We'll be done in a minute, I'll tell you. We're back. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Day Bill on Collection and Accounting of the Single Social Contribution, Bill 6525. Please vote. [[18:05:58]] For 240 Decision taken. With regard to Catherinechuk, you know, if two, three, five or ten bills are being considered, the bill that took the necessary number of votes -- the rest are not voting; it is a well-known norm of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let them count. I can't give a commission, the point is, anyone, including Mikola Dmitrovitch, can make all his proposals for second reading, as the subject of the legislative initiative, and they will necessarily be considered at the committee meeting, so I don't see any questions here, and the minister has generally said that there are certain positions that he has met not once with the Catherinechuk bill and he thinks that there are valid thoughts and they will be carried out. Dear colleagues! The replicas will be tomorrow, and we will continue for 15 minutes, and we have nine minutes to resolve the question that you and I have put off. We've put off with you the question of creating a TSC on freedom of speech. So, please, where is the chairman of the committee now? What decision, whether or not these projects have agreed to settle the issue, ends the day. Please, the word of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u94	Adam Ivanovich! Since it has been impossible to agree on this issue over so many years, we would like to request that the TSC be put to the vote, which has passed the regulatory committee that has been registered and placed in the Hall today, that is, the frequency distribution. I would like to put the matter to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! You probably haven't been handed out yet, because the committee hasn't considered it, and maybe we do have two bills. Draft Decree 6521, the author of the Bogoslovska bill, which was discussed on the committee of profile, is a regulatory committee. And here's the conclusion that the regulatory committee recommends that we look at it with a view to clarifying the new composition of the Interim Investigation Commission. Because the Stac and Ariev from the People’s Self-Defense were added here. And there's bill number 6540 Shevchenko and others, draft regulation on the creation of TSCs on the investigation of censorship in the media, pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine, and obstruction of the law in the professional activities of journalists. The first project is to create a TSK on the issue of lawfulness investigation, to take decisions by the National Council of Ukraine on television issues, to broadcast competitions and to install winners of the competition for the redesign of language licenses using appropriate frequencies in 2005-2010. The 6540 Professional Committee, or regular committee, did not consider. Believe me, as a former member of this committee, he is absolutely not in line with those articles 85, according to which the composition of the TSC is formed. But let him conclude his committee. So I asked the authors, because it's practically the same thing, not to make two committees. They haven't been able to do that, so I'm going to put both projects to the vote, considering that one project is ready to be considered, and the other one we're going to put to the vote when the regulatory committee concludes. With your motives, write down for a minute and we'll vote from factions, please. Either way, I got something. Please, Kirilenko, next Carmazin. John Kirilenko's microphone, please. It's either not yours or it's not. All right, Carmazin, and then we'll check on what's going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u96	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you not to spoil your work right now, the constructive work of the Supreme Council. I have before me an explanatory note to this normative act, before the first one you want to put to the vote, you've already written here and concluded that Twi has increased the power of 32 transmitters and so on, that is, the preprogrammed result you're already putting in. This is the bias of the commission. That's the first one. And the second. What will we look like in the world? When the right of opposition is around to create a Temporary Commission, and the coalition together with the “carcases” will usurp this right! So they're closing up, they're holding court hearings in two hours, and now they're going to be investigating it?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u97	Please, John Krilenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Both the commission and the other committee will not be fully composed, the reliability of its work and the objectivity of both work and the other commission will be greatly questioned. We suggest that one or the other be removed, a draft ruling today, as it is still under consideration, and that there is no need to disengage the hall from such a principled issue. Once again, we ask our colleagues: you can now vote, because it's going to be one-sided, we'll always talk about it, we'll talk about prejudice and so on, and so on, and so on, and for the execution, and for everything else. You don't have to do this, excite the hall and divide the hall! There must be a commission, Adam Ivanovich, I support your proposal. Let us continue to consult, but we will only create one aspect to consider what we consider freedom of speech, and the other aspect, if colleagues believe that the distribution of frequencies was unobjective. The only commission has to be, we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u99	Thank you, Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, let us answer the question, What is democracy? Democracy is a clear follow-up to procedures. I don't know what Europe you're going to, but we're going to democratic Europe, we're practicing democratic principles. Absolutely the rights of Adam Ivanovich, the commission led by Inna Bogoslovska, has undergone all the procedures under the Rules and through the Committee, and only the final vote in the Supreme Council remains. We do not object to the registration of the second commission, but after all the regulatory procedures have been completed. Therefore, the absolute rights of Adam Ivanovich should be put to the vote by the establishment of a commission that has passed all the procedures, which has been passed by the Rules Committee. I mean the commission led by Inna Bogoslovak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I support Ivan Grigorovich's idea of being alone, we're going to continue to have one commission, but you can see that. But he had an offer, and I'm going to put it to the vote. Who is responsible for moving the matter forward, please identify yourself. [[18:14:35]] For the 120th. Not accepted. I'm voting on the adoption of the TSC Ordinance on the Legality Investigation of Decision-making by the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Talks on Competitions and so forth. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u102	Yeah. We need to report on the rules. [[18:15:07]] For 249 Decision taken. With regard to Bill 6540, there's a profile committee, a regular committee, and in the next plenary week, we're going to be looking at this issue. Dear colleagues, are we not going to discuss the budget? No, it's not. [[General Discussion]] Dear colleagues, listen, we have three bills to amend the budget. Briefly, briefly, what does it mean? To allocate funding for the treatment of cancers abroad is the Peasant Bill; to increase the cost of providing medicinal products to patients with hemophilia. And on change, the State Budget Act 2010 (for the Euro-2012 highways). [[B in m in s a l in]] Jura Anatolyovich, listen. All of these, all of these bills have been passed by a profiling committee. Agreed, agreed with the Ministry of Finance. If you don't mind, if you don't mind, let's vote for each of these bills in general. Because that's what makes the sick suffer and prepares for the Euro-12. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010 (as regards the allocation of funds for treatment of cancer patients abroad). Registration number 6464. Please vote. [[18:17:04]] For 306 The law is passed. I am voting on the adoption as a whole on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on the increase in expenditure on the provision of medicinal products to patients with haemophilia]] Registration number 6516. On the ground, please vote. Take off the vote, please. Take down the vote. Dear colleagues! Don't get excited or start this. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Once again, we are voting on this bill only as a basis. Therefore, once again, it is based on the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[Registration number 6516]] Please be supportive. [[18:18:22]] For 338 I realized that at first we were accepted, we were working for the second, and soon we were going back to him. And the third draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2010. [[on the roadblocks involved in preparing and holding the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 6507]] The language is now, I'll tell you, my colleagues, it's about first changing the warden, not the National Agency “Euro”, but because it's directly being done by the State Road Service to change, as it were, the warden. And in the second paragraph of article 33, paragraph 1, of the Law, the words: “Capital repair should be replaced by the words: ‘ Capital and current repairs. Yes, please, Blackwolf and Hungarian, and we will vote. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u103	Dear friends, what is this about? It's about taking the money that's earmarked for the capital construction and the capital repairs and giving them to the current road repairs. And that's why we're doing this on the road. So this is about taking all the money you can build roads on or actually repairing them just to waste your time, because empty current repairs are a waste of money when they're doing it at the state level. This is what road authorities, circuits, cities, areas, but not the national republican road service. That's why I'm asking you not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u104	Hungarian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, the point is that the End of the State Budget Act there has been such a tedious mistake that local environmental funds, which are also set up to prepare places for the Euro-2012 from an ecological point of view, have been so wrong that all the costs of the local environmental funds must be aligned with the central government authorities. This is the first time in years of independence has ever been invented. So there's the agreement of everyone involved in this issue to cancel this rule because it's actually bureaucratizing all processes of distribution of environmental funds, including the preparation for the Euro-2012. If you can also include it here, cancel paragraph 14 of the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-17-m1.u106	Well, yes, from the voice, unfortunately we can't, without the committee's conclusion. I am voting on the adoption as a whole of a law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act. [[on the roadblocks involved in preparing and holding the final part of the European Championship in Ukraine]] [[6507]] Please vote in general. Vote. [[18:21:41]] For 239. Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we start at 10:00.
