ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration and invite the deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:00:31]] They've registered cards, I'm stressing 410 national MPs. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. You and I agreed that at 16 o'clock we would consider a draft regulation on the state of the art, the task and further prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[The 24-year anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster]] That is why I ask the rapporteur of Seminogue Anatolia Ivanovich, the National Deputy of Ukraine and the head of the committee to report. The focal point will be the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Oliynik Viktor Stepanovich. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, is approaching the 24th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. But the urgency and necessity of solving a number of issues remains. We therefore consider it necessary to draw the attention of the national deputies of Ukraine, the government, the public to the problems of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the related key issues and ways of resolving it over a long period of time. The objective of the project is to analyse and provide specific recommendations to the Government of Ukraine on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I will draw your attention only to specific questions. The greatest concern of the affected population is the annual reduction in the cost of specialized medical care, the provision of medicines and shelters free of charge, and the provision of food for children living in contaminated areas. And in previous years, and today, we are paying attention to the imperfections of pension insurance for the victims. Citizens disagree with the size of the compensations determined by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’ decrees, and they mass appeal to the judicial authorities for making these payments in the size prescribed by Ukraine’s legislation. Including payments for previous years. So in Ukraine, there are more than a hundred thousand lawsuits in the courts of different institutions totaling over 1 billion dollars. It should be noted that the budget of previous years did not provide budgetary allocations for court decisions. The court's rulings on the recalculation of compensations and payments to citizens. As a result, arrests are carried out in the accounts of labour administrations and the social protection of the population, i.e. the cessation of all expenses from the account, until it is unconditionally written off by court decisions. And there are more than 170 of these arrests. Taking into account the rapid increase in positive decisions in favour of prosecutors and the real number of potential recipients, it can be assumed that spending on court decisions will increase steadily and may reach several billion in the next few years. This problem may lead to a failure to meet the public obligation to issue most of the affected citizens compensation costs. Dear colleagues, a new, more effective policy must be put in place today to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, which along with traditional social protection measures included active measures to address health, the environment, employment, and the economic activity of the population. That's what the draft verdict is for the 24-year anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. During the consideration of the draft ruling, a number of suggestions were made to the committee and the committee proposes, first, paragraph 1.1. of the recommendations, as follows: “Review the state of implementation of the state-wide programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2006-2010 and take into account the findings of the analysis carried out by 1 March 2011 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft State-wide programme to address the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2012-2016. The other one. Complement the draft regulation in part of the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with new paragraphs of this content. Consider creating the conditions for storing and exhibiting the preserved cultural values of the museum-archy fund of the ethnocultural heritage of the alien zone and the area of unconditional eviction. Dear colleagues, the committee asks you to support the decision in general, taking into account the suggestions made by the committee. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u3	Thank you. If there is a question for the committee head, please sign up for the question. Names of the national MPs, please. People's MP Scubenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u4	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, please state your position. Do we need to make the following suggestions in paragraph 1, paragraph 1, where it concerns the restoration of the radiological service: take measures to stop the production of radioactively contaminated products? We still have 25 years of agricultural production in the Chernobyl area, despite all measures taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. I'd like to add that not even production is produced, or even control over the production of this product, as a minimum, we're suspended today. Therefore, in my determination today, I feel that it is imperative that we pay attention and restore radiation control to contaminated areas in the production of one or another product. This will allow, as a minimum, not to export products that are radioactively contaminated within the territory. Regrettably, in previous years, funding for control has been suspended, and the issue today is so acute. Convinced that in the 2010 budget, we should definitely set up funds to restore control over the products produced in these zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u6	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u7	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, it is good that there is such a draft decision, and unfortunately, as in the last year, we are practically accepting this decision on the eve of that tragic page in the history of Ukraine - the Chernobyl AES accident. So the question is that you really have to do something more real. The other one. You recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers analyze the state of implementation of the state-of-the-art programme for 2010 and develop another programme for 2011-2015. And why, for example, can't the committee do that analysis, even hold committee hearings, because parliamentary hearings were held. And in principle, the committee has to give the concept of this program, because no one else as you know as well as you know all the problems that are in this area and offer the necessary directions to this program by 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u8	Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, I can't say that our decision that we make, the rulings of the Supreme Council, is ineffective. These decisions are taken and implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately not to the full, but they are still being implemented. I would like to remind you that even in the last difficult year, $6.5 billion was allocated to the Chernobyl social issues. This is a huge sum for our state, given that there is a financial crisis in Ukraine today. Again, the previous year, perhaps four or five years ago, managed to raise the Afghans from the dead. And it was only in the previous year that 350 apartments were allocated for the victims, taking into account that nothing had been allocated in previous years. For the program, once again, according to the regulations, such programs should be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Because it's finance, because it's a government program, because there's at least a few people involved that are responsible for the problem. We will, of course, study this program in our committee, complement our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u9	Please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u10	will be placed in the session room, it will be sure with our wishes and consideration of the issues that the Cabinet of Ministers does not perform today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u11	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u12	Anatoly Ivanovich, Gregory Smithyuch, Party of the Regions. Please tell me you're head of the committee. [[I'm here.]] You are chairing the committee, accordingly, you know that there was a programme before 2010, it ends and is necessary for the Government, including us, the Supreme Council, to determine what further to do and what programme to propose as a whole in order to be part of the entire economic warehouse, including the budget, to provide for the money that needs to be allocated. Don't you think you're the head of the parliamentary committee to take care of these issues? I have to do the analysis, and what has been done, and what has been missed? So in 2008, in 2009, you were in charge. were part of the coalition, was your government what was done in those years and what was not done? Were funds provided, budgeted or not implemented? So let me tell you what this economic element is to be done over the last two years in order for us to understand how to move forward? Because it's not analyzed and it's controlled again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u14	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. What I'd like to say is that the committee actually does not just analyze programs, it does control functions. We're practically every quarter going to the Chernobyl nuclear station and controlling the processes that are going on there: and building on international projects, and analyzing the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl accident. By the way, today's decision is the result of the analysis, what's done? And what should we do in the coming years? Indeed, we are concerned that the program ends this year and that there are no programs for the next few periods, at least. You know, we've adopted a State Program to help close the Chernobyl nuclear station and to transform the "Hidden" object into an environmentally safe object. This program is, it's long-term. At the same time, however, such long - term periods are certainly necessary for the near future. short-term programs, because every year the situation in Chernobyl is changing and the situation is changing to protect the affected population, because the problems with the years, they're not going to go back in time, they're probably in my opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u16	become even more global. So today's ruling is the result of an analysis by our committee, where it's stated that they haven't been able to do in recent years what needs to be done. I would like to add that, over the past few years, international projects at the Chernobyl nuclear power station have intensified from 2007 to this year. And of course, we need to pay attention to social protection, especially health care. The drugs are expensive each year, and it may be necessary to increase the funding of these articles, medicines, and diets for children living in the Chernobyl area. If we do that, we could say that we're doing what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u17	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u18	Unfortunately, the greatest technological catastrophe of all time and the peoples of Chernobyl today has turned into something so ritualistic in Ukraine. For the preceding year, we usually talk a little bit about social protection, not really affecting it. And the biggest problem that we still have is the technical, scientific problems with our shelter. Today, any honest scientist will tell you that the fuel that's left in the shelter is acting quite differently, quite differently, I emphasize, than anticipated. And unfortunately, it happened that only our ordinal, medal-simplified scientists, our nuclear physicists completely remained at the same level of thinking that they were at. We have no solutions today, no concrete solutions to what we have to do with this fuel left over, what to do with these funerals that we have. Don't you think it would be worth, by the way, the program that we've adopted today, not a word about it at all, today's zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u19	Thank you for asking. Your Honor, the point is that after your statement from the Supreme Council's rostrum, we have really asked the Ministry of Emergency Situations to comment on this statement. And here in this room is the Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations, Holos Volodymyr Ivanovich, and I would like to ask him a word for an reasoned answer to your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u20	Just a minute. So let's work it out when you're done, then we'll ask the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u21	I think Vladimir Ivanovich will give a more reasoned and professional answer to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u22	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u23	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I have two questions for you. First. Based on what you said this year, there should be money in the budget that will be paid for people’s late application for failure to comply with the State’s obligations. How much do you predict this should be money? You said 170 lawsuits would probably be more and more. Because it is clear that the State does not fulfill its obligations to the Chernobylites. And the second question. Everybody knows that in a 30-mile zone around the station, people are not allowed to live. You know perfectly well that people live there, and they're getting more and more. What is to be done with them? In principle it's forbidden, but they live there, they run households, and there's information, even that they're making agricultural products for sale. Two questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u24	Thank you. As a matter of fact, you know, you and I may have given birth to this problem, which today is with court cases. Because we've really passed laws on the Chernobyl problem a lot. And you know that the court, at the very least, has confirmed that the Cabinet of Ministers' rulings today cannot resolve this issue. That's the reason they're going to court, and these courts are going to win. And today, more than a billion dollars are in our country, and we need to pay off our debts at least. We have no other option than to anticipate in this year's budget these costs in order to pay off this debt. Because if we don't, we really won't allow social services to work in places, because their accounts will be blocked. So you have to think about budgeting, you have to allocate these costs. As for people who live in the territory and grow their produce. I don't think we can stop them from living in these territories, because that's their right. Because they're mostly older people. We need to restore, in my opinion, control, radiation control over the products that come out of the territory of the polluted territories. That way we can secure it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u26	In this way, we will be able to secure people in contaminated products. I just don't see another way out today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u27	Thank you. Have a seat. Time is running out, and all who wanted to ask the question took advantage of that right. The account. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy to address the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Oliynik Viktor Stepanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A few days later, more precisely, 11 days later, Ukraine and the whole world will celebrate one of the most tragic events in modern history — the 24th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. A date that no doubt divided the lives of many millions of people in Ukraine, and not only for two periods — by April 26, 1986 and beyond. Today, there are almost 2.5 million citizens in Ukraine who have the status of exterminators or victims. These are the people who lost part of their lives, their health, their material values as a result of the disaster. And it is they who today need daily attention from the state, from society. In terms of the budget, over 6.5 billion dollars were allocated to these needs last year. Most of the money was spent on social protection issues for exterminators and victims. On the one hand, that's a pretty big amount, so if you compare it to 2008, that's almost half a billion more. But that's what I'd like to call another number about. Only to make full use of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster would it take up to 50 billion dollars. This speaks only of the fact that the problems of the Chernobyl family should be a daily one, because they should be a priority for the authorities every day. In recent years, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has traditionally passed the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster and has adopted an appropriate decision setting out the main problems, recommendations and mandate of certain authorities to deal with them. The draft rulings are proposed to the Ukrainian National Deputies by Seminog Anatoly Ivanovich and clearly highlight all the current problems associated with the Chernobyl accident -- this is the social spectrum, they're really important and relevant, and they need a solution today, it's medical, their role is increasing and increasing as well as economics every day. There are also clear recommendations given to various government authorities, primarily the Cabinet of Ministers, regarding their decision-making. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster discussed at its meeting a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the state of the art, tasks and future prospects for the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster. [[The 24-year anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster]] [[Registration number 6238]] And he invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it. In addition, I would like to add that the Committee’s decision was taken on March 31. After that, a number of proposals were made to our committee and to me as a deputy from the community organizations of the Chernobyl community, which really play an important social role in the lives of the Chernobylites. And they are actually advocating or lobbying the interests of Chernobyl today in front of various branches of government. In particular, representatives of the Union of Chernobyl, with proposals for rights to the Supreme Council's ruling, addressed the Council. They are right, and I would like you to support them in accordance with the legislative initiative. In particular, complete the draft regulation in part of the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with new paragraphs of this content. Ensure the implementation of paragraph 22 of paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 21 May 2009 No. 1368-6 on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the subject: “Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[on the provision of national state status to the Scientific Centre for Radiation Medicine of the National Academy of Medical Sciences]] I would like to say that today it is the leading scientific medical institution in the field of medical research into the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Today, nearly one and a half thousand people work in this institution. By the way, the analogs of such an institution that we have, the Scientific Center of Radiation Medicine in no country in the world. And really their acquisitions, which they already have today, are valuable, I think, not only for Ukraine, but also for the whole world. And that's why last year we started our own procedure, because it's quite a problem to prepare documents for granting national status to this institution. I'd really like this proposal to be supported. And a second offer. Ensure completion of the construction of the pathological and anatomical corps and the farm block, and the reconstruction of the first line of the rehabilitation centre of the State Institute of the Scientific Center for Radiation Medicine of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u29	Thank you, Victor Stepanovich. Will there be questions for a coconspirator? Please sign up. Please show me who would like to ask a question. Scooby.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u30	Mr. Victor. Vladimir Skoubenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please tell me, how do you estimate the amount of concessions and suffering that we grow out of every year? Yes, so far, about 6 billion grevens, over 6 billion grevens, is already a budget burden. How do you think the situation will develop further, we will have an increase in the number of victims and the number of concessions, or will it decrease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u31	You know, in my speech, I gave one figure that in Ukraine today, almost 2.5 million citizens have the status of victims or liquidators. It's really quite a lot of people. And no doubt the left hand side of people has this legal status because they have really spent a large part of their lives in the territory of the “alien zones” or in the other four zones, or worked to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. But the thing you said was that the number of Chernobylites in terms of healthy logic was going to go down, but there was actually a fact that it was increasing. And that's why I think there's a real problem today, the problem is that the register that's been said for many years is that it's actually normalized to have ministries actually find a coherent position today. It's not just the Ministry of Labour, it's other ministries. So these ministries, which actually contain lists of victims and liquidators, and so that we eventually have this State Register in Ukraine that would allow us to regulate, actually, and every person who's going to be included in it, actually, to ask a completely logical question: “And is it true that according to the various institutions, according to the documentation, this person has the right to have the status of the victim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u32	Thank you. Musik Vladimir Romanovich is handing it over to Vladimir Karpuk, I understand. Please, Danielenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u33	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Victor Stepanovich, you have named a number of objects to be built, to be built under the Chernobyl program. Previously, all the capital expenditure was the Ministry of Emergency Situations and overcoming the consequences of the CHAES accident. In 2008-2009, the main manager of these funds was Minregionbud. And, as I recall, in 2008, there were only 5 million dollars allocated for these expenses, and in 2009, nothing seems to have been allocated. Do you think it would be advisable to continue to maintain this practice, or do you want to increase these costs and recover these costs so that the Ministry of Emergency Situations itself will be the principal supervisor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u34	Indeed, by 2008, the Ministry of Extraordinary Situations had been the managing director of the core funds that were actually related to the implementation of the Chernobyl Programmes, including, in fact, construction, capital construction. In recent years the situation has changed somewhat. I think today we're going to see what the situation is going to be like in the near future in the state budget project, what are the amounts, what are the specific amounts that will apply to individual Chernobyl programs, including programs that relate to the capital construction of those objects that actually need to be built today. This is true of medical and other objects. In my opinion, however, I think that the Ministry of Emergency Situations should be the main manager of these funds, because there is already some experience. There are some structural units that are in this ministry. And I think today they have the strength to actually carry out these tasks and actually continue to build these objects that need to be continued. As for sadness, we'll see them in the State Budget when we see him. Of course, they should be increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u35	Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u36	Viktor Stepanovich, however, the Union of Chernobyl, a public organization, has also asked us to do so after we have considered the matter on the committee. And they've asked the two questions that you've heard, two more questions -- this is a tomographer who's come in and out of order, and it's no longer workable. The second question is, they put -- or the fourth -- in Desert Water they destroy without proper supervision of the rehabilitation center and so on. Don't you think we should complement these two additions that you've given, with the following questions: inventing the possibility of purchasing medical equipment for a medical clinic -- a magnetic-reviewed tomographer -- and then inventing an opportunity to complete the rehabilitation center?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u37	Yes, indeed, questions and problems are very pressing. By the way, I was in this center in Desert Water. He was, indeed, once one of the branches of the scientific center of radiation medicine. It's barely working today. Is that why it needs to be restored? Of course you do. I would like to say that international organizations are actively involved today. At the base of this center, the International Center for Ecology and Health was established in the Desert of Vodica. I wish we had a delegation from April 27-28 with a member of the European Parliament, Michel Rivazi. I think this meeting will discuss the issue of including the involvement of international funds. There are already previous arrangements, in principle, because I'm working on this issue, that maybe through the European Parliament we can allocate a few million dollars or a euro -- so far there are still negotiations -- actually that would go because, well, today in the state, if we're talking about reality, it's just not going to be able to involve international funds, grants, actually, to build this building. And as for the C.T., in principle, there's this question, and there's this problem. But I think it's a question, well, you don't have to make a decision. I think it can be decided, in principle, at the work pace.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u38	I see. Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u39	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleague, dear reporter, after my speech yesterday, of course, the same ranks have now gone to conservative teachings in defense. Now comes the man I deeply respect, Vladimir Holosa. I was the initiator, by the way, of assigning him somewhere in 91st year to this position. And of course he's going to talk, too, because he has to say that everything is beautiful, there's no technical problems, and he's going to continue to swallow millions of money without solving any problems. The problem is that today, in Ukrainian science and in the zone, no one wants to listen to alternative scientists who offer completely different solutions. It's not worth a lot of money, but today a lot of scientists are digging into it, and they just don't want to let some fresh people go who offer fresh ideas. I'd ask you a lot of questions, it's actually not even a question, let's have an open round table where people can listen to each other. Today, let's say the Kinderevich is just being wiped away, and the money will continue to go like a black hole. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u40	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u41	I think it's an idea of an alternative thought. In fact, in terms of the situation today, I realized, at the Chernobyl station itself, in the alienation zone. Yes, the problem of building a new confairy is, indeed, there are very, very many issues and there are constant negotiations with international institutions today, this is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, other international institutions that have to take on the left-hand side of the funds of these projects. There's a lot of problems there, and I think you can talk about them, but today, it's just the Chernobyl days are coming. I think there's going to be a whole bunch of international conferences today, and there's going to be some hearings in the European Parliament. I think they're on. And you, too, I think, and these scientists, because scientists are going to be involved in them to express their thoughts about what to do and how to do it. Perhaps the question is more: How to do in the alienation zone of both the Chernobyl nuclear station and the subject of the shelter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u42	Thank you, Victor Stepanovich. Let's move on to the discussion. We have the opportunity to discuss actively both from factions and from national MPs. Please sign up. Please show who volunteered for the discussion. Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich, next to Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, well-respected voters, distinguished opposition, the venerable crumpled majority in Danish! Indeed, we stand before another Jubilee. Unfortunately, this has changed. The memory of man has wiped out so many tragic pages of Chernobyl. And today we really do respond, basically, to social things, because we're always worried about the sick, the sick, the sick. By the way, there's this situation that we have 50 percent of us today have lip gloss. These are mostly those officials who had access to the press before shipping. And they're right after the adoption of the laws, and I reported all of these laws on behalf of our Chernobyl committee, and we wanted to do the best we could, and of course it came out, as always, you know. And because of those who had access to the documents, to the seals, to the orders, everyone had very well formed their Chernobyl certificates, and many of those people, the rural boys, the drivers who were given ten eggs and a half a liter of alone and said, "Eat, they're going to figure it out!", unfortunately, they didn't have any documents, nothing. This is the first injustice that exists and that exists to this day. And one time when we tried to do a Chernobyl audit, it ended up being that who, maybe the least was in Chernobyl, who had been through this very quickly, and who really was there, they always lacked something. But I did, and I'm going to perform, and there's a huge problem today. We were put to sleep by the lanterns, but we lived to see that today the Lighthouse, which imposed on Ukraine at that time, is actually a multicolored radiation system imposed by the Kremlin, perhaps by humans. This man again today. As an example, I have nothing against this scientist, but today he is imposing on us a new black - and - white fashion. Because of this, scientists who now hold high posts today have been able to preserve the Chernobyl problem completely. I'm talking to Seminoga, I'm talking to Nestor Schufrich: let's open this up. Today a lot of people have appeared, and what I said here from the rostrum yesterday is no exaggeration. And if there's an exaggeration, it's better to exaggerate than minimize and then have colossal problems. The problem is, and it's very big, and I repeat, the fuel that was stored there is acting quite differently than many of our scientists predicted. But there's already a busy track, everybody's used to giving money from the state budget, there's definitely foreign donors, there's millions of dollars in the zone, but who's going to tell me what kind of problem is solved? Of the 800 temporary burials that are, even though one problem is solved? No, it's not. What's done? In fact, it's nothing to eat money. I'm talking about it with great concern. Because of this, I demand that we hold round tables where we can speak to alternative scientists who are now offering completely new approaches. Let's not be afraid of that. I'm sure it's very important, and that's what we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u44	Thank you. I would like to invite Oleg Zarubinsky, the faction of the “Lituinian Block”. Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u45	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Actually, it's a shame that we're putting a decision into some kind of anniversary. Moreover, the problem of Chernobyl is not the problem that arises in April-months. It seems to us, and it's obviously the right thing to do, to be a system of work, well planned for every month and current, and next year. That's the first one. One second. Obviously, this is supposed to be a job plan. When it is clear what both executive and legislative authorities can do this year, next year, one year and so on. Otherwise, there's a sense of perception of all of these things, like, you know, spontaneous, non-systemic. First. One second. Here the previous speaker said that 50 percent of those considered to be black people were not. I don't know where this statistic came from, but I think a lot of people, including those who have put their health in such statements. This time. The second is what he's right about. That's because a lot of people today can't really form Chernobyl documents with all the rights to it. I know from my own experience, a number of doctors who were sent there in 1986 to the Chernobyl station, to the Chernobyl area to save people and they did. Where do you take them, which is 50 percent, you have to be respectful and careful when you call them 50 percent of the lipids. That's not right. Third, you can see that we have a discussion, first of all, about social problems, about the social problems of the Chernobyl population, and obviously that's understandable, because this applies directly to every person. But I think that when you do the analysis, and this has to be a really comprehensive analysis, a complex system analysis, you have to pay more attention to the environmental problem and the economic problem. Because essentially a non-systemic policy in terms of eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl accident has resulted in whole areas being removed from economic life. Why we don't look at this aspect of the problem, but there are plenty of people living there. And last of all, once again, I would like to point out that the work on liquidators, on blackbacks, is going to take place not before the year's date and so on. This has to be a serious system job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u46	Thank you. I invite Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich, next will be Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, the farther we go from this tragic date, the more problems we face, the more problems we face. An example of this is one of the key solutions and problems of the "Hidden" facility and the exit of the Chernobyl station from operation. This is a program of cooperation between Ukraine and the "great seven", which was developed and signed in 1995. The program envisaged replacing the power of the Chernobyl nuclear station, solving the problems of the “Hidden ” facility, not concealing them, and transforming it into an environmentally safe system, helping to get the Chernobyl nuclear station out of operation, and creating new jobs in Slavotic. However, the change of power that took place almost annually in Ukraine did not lead to the implementation of this strategy, and despite the fact that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development had created a special fund to finance this large-scale programme, the costs, as has been shown, were extremely ineffective and the results were very dismal. An example is the cost of building a nuclear fuel shelter that is unloaded from the Chernobyl blocks. And when it was built, it became clear that it wasn’t for the fuel, and it wasn’t for that kind of shelter that we needed to build. But the biggest tragedy is that the “Hide” object, which is really a nuclear-hazardous object, as long as there are almost 200 tons of nuclear fuel materials, is classified as being nuclear-hazardous. I'm not talking about the problem of a huge number of radioactive substances, the fire hazard, the instability of the structure, and everything else. Thus, if the Ukrainian government does not review the whole concept of the solution to the problem of “Coupling” and refuse to cover the problem with a second disguise, and in this way translate all responsibility, both financially and for the safety of this object on the shoulders of Ukraine and the Ukrainian budget, we are facing an even more terrible situation than the nuclear disarmament that we are currently financing from the Ukrainian state budget, and the world is not helping us. Because to solve such large-scale, financial and technological problems as the “Hiddenness” problem is beyond Ukraine and our scientific potential. This is not even within the reach of all the world’s societies. So, dear colleagues, I think that bringing all this traditional work of ours before April 26th of the work of the Supreme Council only to social aspects and saying that all other government decides is wrong. The Supreme Council should hold a generally different discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u49	Discussions on these topics, inviting really experts who are involved in this program and know how to solve these problems. To give the government a mandate and to manage Ukraine's interests, not the world community that's interested in hiding the Chernobyl tragedy and then solving it ourselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u50	Thank you. I invite Chechotov Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew School will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, our country is the only country in Europe that pays a huge Chernobyl tax in 24 years! Neither France nor England nor Germany pay the Chernobyl tax, I mean, they do not allocate from their budget the greatest amounts to the solution, to the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, to the social protection of people affected during the Chernobyl disaster, or to participants in the elimination of the Chernobyl accident. We are forced to pay this “tax” and we will bear this heavy burden for more than a decade. For the sake of objectivity, it should be said that it may not always be, and far from money has always come to the addressee. Part of the money was dissolved in the unclear of which schemes, part of the money was not clear to which hands it was sticking, part of the money was breaking up. And if, in 24 years, even the scarce resources that had been made available but had not come to the addressee, perhaps many problems today would have been solved. Yes, of course, all problems cannot be solved, this is linked to the physics of the process, but many problems would be solved. To date, therefore, both the State and the State authorities, both in the face of Parliament and the Government, must see and see the Chernobyl problem. But we must decide by no means or by a method of financial chaos. It would probably be wrong for Parliament to initiate bills that had a financial burden, while at the same time not showing a source of solutions to those problems. I'm not just taking Chernobyl and so on, it's probably right if legislative initiatives are supported by calculation and a source of where to get the money. Perhaps it would be right if the Ministry of Finance confirmed the existence of a resource that would provide a solution or enforce the law, otherwise the laws would “hang out in the air” and would laugh at us, with all the MPs. It was absolutely true that Yuri Ivanovich and Vladimir Yavorivski could have held a round table, a wide-ranging round table, to be discussed. Well, maybe after the round table, you can make a decision, although I don't think it's right, you'll have to make a decision now. But since this is about financial resources and the source is not, in my view, right if we adopt this regulation on first reading today, and in a week's time we will finally adopt it, and it will not survive in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u52	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Before you know it, let's take you to Andrey School, the Yulia Tymoshenko faction, and then we'll sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u53	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, radio audiences, and television audiences! You know, solemn dates, they always oblige the Supreme Council to react, important dates. In particular, the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, which will take place on April 6, always forces us to look at the problem again. And there's nothing wrong with that, more than that. It is better before such an important decision is taken by the Supreme Council than not to accept it at all. And here's the previous performance, a beautiful performance, just calmly in gold letters, you can put it in the contemporary disgraceful history of Ukraine. Yeah? This can be said: “We love you very much, we love you so much, we respect you so much, but we will not give money.” Well, of course, black people are crazy about that kind of love, with that kind of respect, and that's all they're missing. But you don't give money. Then you will put yourself in their place. These people expect not only respect, not just attention, but financial, material security. Because people have lost their health — the most important thing they could lose except their lives. And you're saying there's no money in the government. So, you know, there's money for everything else, and that's money if it's not enough. And that's the offer. Let's take it in the first reading, and in the second reading, let's take the next year, for example. Also not bad. There's going to be money, there's going to be, there's going to be something going on, someone's going to think. I'd like the niggers to hear that those who rode on you were exploiting you -- now they're reminding you that the money in the budget they fought so hard for doesn't exist. And from this rostrum, how many of you have come and spoken with a voice that your ears laid on the back of the Supreme Council: “Give us authority, and we will show you what to do with it. ” Showed. Showed. There's no money. So why would it be possible to go to that power if there was no money? If you are unable to provide for those who are underfunded, those who are cared for by money. Maybe give back this power if it's so free and heavy. Did something happen? Maybe some financial flows didn't block and redirect it? So I would like to emphasize, honourable deputies, honourable listeners, which, unfortunately, always determines the point of thinking. So I would like us to break this shameful tradition today. I understand that the Party of the Regions will not vote in favour of this decision. I would ask other political forces, other political factions that join the coalition to demonstrate, not lack of respect, but even the presence of such ones to the Chernobylites. On that day, though, people are reminded of the need for attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite the Deputy Minister, who is concerned with the problems of eliminating or overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, to reassure us, MPs, Ukrainian citizens, therefore, and to express the view of the Ministry and Government on this draft decision from the situation of the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster. Vladimir Ivanovich Holosa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u55	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to stop at some of the things that have been said. First. With regard to systemivity in the workplace after the removal of the Chernobyl AES from operation. I would like to remind you that this composition of Parliament has been adopted by the state-wide programme of decommissioning from the operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system and this document is now a system document for adopting appropriate and budgetary programmes and related work. That's the first one. Second, with regard to the safety of the Chernobyl site. Will it become more dangerous or less dangerous? I'm informing you that fuel from all three Chernobyl AES reactors has been uploaded over the years. Reactors are a special device in which. A device to support a chain nuclear reaction. It can be supported by systems and fuel. Fuel removed. So there can't be a chain nuclear reaction in this reactor. Of course, there's a potential danger of fuel because it's in the reactor pools of stamina, in the shelters of sent-off nuclear fuel, which is of a temporary nature. Therefore, more perfect buildings need to be implemented. But reactor security has increased tens of times. Now, about the "Hiddenness" object. Well, first of all, of the 22 measures that were planned to turn the Hidden into an ecologically safe system, 16 have already been implemented at international costs. The most massive of them is usually the stability of those unstable nodes that were in active “Secure”. Now they're stable. And the expert estimates of builders and scientists say that this “Hiddenness” can now stand for 15 years while we build a new protective shell against the dangers that are in this “Hide”. As far as nuclear danger is concerned. In its time, this is not a new issue, and so it was commissioned by the Kurchatov Institute of the Russian Federation, which, along with the Institute for the Safety of Nuclear Power Plants of the National Academy of Sciences, conducted appropriate research. And that's why I don't do the evaluation. That's what scientists do. And they said yes, some destructive processes with fuel oil masses are happening. But it is now said that no nuclear explosions are predicted by nuclear scientists. The same assessment was confirmed by an international advisory group of experts that did research in line with the implementation of the SIB plan, this document is. And they said there couldn't be nuclear explosions. So in view of the above, I want, as Mikola Volodymyrovich asked, to calm everyone and the people of Ukraine, too, and the Chinese, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u56	Let me finish. Speak up, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u57	Yeah, they're potentially dangerous objects, so you have to work with them, bring them to an ecologically safe state. But with our efforts and those who work, the safety of these objects increases with each year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Have a seat. Sadly, we cannot ask questions. Vladimir Alexanderovich, set up in the towers. Vladimir Ivanovich is open to discussion, you may approach. Dear colleagues, there were many suggestions in the discussion. Let's consult, and I think that Michaelo Vasilovich Chechetov, and a lot of the speakers here were right in the sense that if we go now and after the amendments that aren't in writing, it might be difficult. So let's now vote on the basis and then let's talk about how to move forward. I'm putting a draft regulation on the state of the art, the tasks and future prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster as a basis. [[The 24-year anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster]] [[registration project 6238]] Please vote on the basis. [[16:52:38]] For 381 Decision taken. Now let's talk about it. I'll give the committee's head my word. Anatoly Ivanovich, tell the committee's position, then we listen to the factions' position, because the proposals were really a lot. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this bill as a whole. But I've just talked to the deputies right now, there's really a lot of comments about this decision, so I suggest you take it in the first reading and work on the second reading, and for the next sessional week, you take it as a determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since the chairman of the committee is proposing, I cannot put it all together. It's from the committee. If Anatoly Ivanovich is ready, say, for 27 or 28, we have a sessional week, it's up to the committee. I don't think that's necessary. Are you insisting on a reduced procedure? Okay. I'm voting to prepare this motion for a summary committee order. Please vote in favour. [[16:53:56]] For 354 So, my friends, we're going to be planning for the next sessional week of April 27th to consider the bill as a whole. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council. So what's the procedure for Vladimir Aleksandrovich, as you decide? Where's the procedure? The next question we put on the Conciliation Council is a multifaceted category to address previously unsupported issues, a draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2010. So there's a proposition, let Vladimir Alexanderovich motivate the minute, and then we'll think about how to move on. I'll remind you that on the Conciliation Council there was such a compromise proposal to vote on the basis, and then all the dates that raise doubts, bring them out in brackets and vote on each date separately, but Vladimir Alexanderovich will report in more detail. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u61	I just caught up with one little line, and I wanted to ask Mr. Holos. Were there times when the chain reaction began? I don't think you're going to hang around here and say it started. You've been shutting it down. Because of this, I would not like to be reminded of Rizkov, who, when he arrived in the zone, said, "Let us brush this area with our toothbrushes in a month." Let's be sober. Now let's get to the point. I don't want to take up much of your time. You know that we are all talking about the unification of Ukraine. There is nothing from Yavorowski, nothing from the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Here is all the people’s deputies of Ukraine have offered. I want to remind you that four times I, as chairman of the committee, have addressed every national deputy: colleagues, and so on, we're at the end of the year, somewhere in November, we're going to be looking at the landmark dates for 2010, give us your suggestions. Many have made these suggestions: and the Academy of Sciences, creative associations, universities are not lazy. Everything is actually created here from the most important dates that correspond to regulatory things. There must be a round date, a round date. We brought it all here. There is, if you really want, a united Ukraine: there is a Prikice, a Trieste, there is, say, an Ugnite, there is a Covel. [[Eastern Ukraine]] Well, here's all the dates there are. We can't, let's say, take it here and look for some proportions. These are different dates. Because of this, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the dates that began in January and by the end of April, we can remove them today from the list, because we already celebrate, say, the Jubilee of the same Horskov – twice the Hero of the Soviet Union – on February 26 we have already missed. That's why we have to remove it. And I want to say for the transcript that we're removing from Denisenko Vladimir Terentiyovich all the way to Zerov Mikli Kostinovich. And on May 1st, when we can still celebrate something, it's the birth of Koperzhinski Nonna, the national actress of the film, the theater. That's why there's the dates of the cities, there's the East Ukraine, there's the Donetskina, there's the Western Ukraine. Because I would suggest that we, the people of the state, have certain names here, I understand which may cause some opposition. Some may feel that Stephen Bandera is here without reading. The only place is Bendera, where Philip Orlik wrote his Constitution. Then don't confuse it with the one where you wrote the Constitution. I would very simply ask for a sign of Ukraine's unity, but there's no one here. If anyone is surprised by Stecko Slava, she was sitting here with us as a national deputy, two cadences. People are good, but there are some things you can't get past. There's Kozedub, there's Soviet scientists back then. Everything we could do, we did. I'd like to take this as a base, and then please look again at what you think you're adding, subtracting -- please, not the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u62	Finish up, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u63	Once again, it's the will of the majority and everything has to be decided here in the hall. And I would ask you very much to do it wisely, patriotically and in a state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u65	I have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I think we have repeatedly debated. I'll lay the groundwork if the decision is made, then let's talk about how to move forward. By the way, as far as Bender is concerned, both Transnistria and Moldova have been jointly celebrated, unlike our authority, 300 years since the birth of the first Ukrainian Constitution. I'm betting on a draft Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2010. Project 6124, on a base, please vote. [[16:59:07]] For 211 Decision, no decision. Dear colleagues, you'd like to have another chat, wouldn't you? Let's do one thing at a time, one faction at a time. Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, there are, indeed, things that, well, you don't have to be absurd anymore. I am approached by the Wolinians, 925th anniversary of the city of Lucca, 700th anniversary of Kowala, recently 770th anniversary of the city of Gorokhova. I think we can vote on these dates. There aren't any people out there who have doubts. If the communists want to celebrate the 140th anniversary, let's not do it, but specifically by this candidature, by this personality vote. But these, that's what makes me laugh, that we haven't accepted or approved the notable dates by now. And it really looks embarrassing when the city of Bendera celebrates the 300th anniversary of the Orlik Constitution, the deputy head of the Supreme Council present, and I think he was approached: “What have you done in Ukraine? They couldn't even make the right decision." Therefore, we should not exclude the names that have been added. It's a tribute to memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u68	I see. Guys, make up your mind, 'cause there's a lot of people out there who want to. Andrew School is convinced that he was the first to raise his hand. I give him my word, the next Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u69	Mikola Volodymyrovich, thank you. I just want to support the committee head, because he's doing the same thing, and in general, to stress that, you know, as soon as anything Ukrainian sounds in the bill, for example, there's 700 years of Gorokhov or there, for example, 850 years or a thousand years of Lviv, never a party of regions votes for it. Because they have an ideaosyncrasy about everything Ukrainian, it's all patriotic. So, of course, and I have no doubt that they will never vote for a decision that honors the memory of any Ukrainian, because they never have it in their heart, it basically beats for other reasons. So I don't encourage them to do that. It's just me. You think you have a few percent of the voters in Central and Eastern Ukraine, and maybe they won't be disappointed if you support that decision. Although, of course, it is your will to be an anti-Ukrainian force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u71	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to point out that this vote was the basis. And the question is, are we interested in determining for each year the dates of the outstanding, Jubilee celebrations that our country would celebrate and celebrate the Ukrainian people? Are these supposed to be separate decisions, separate proposals, often counterversive, which would be separate debates and so forth? In our opinion, it's a first choice. He gives some general view of what are the Jubilees, which are remarkable dates and so forth. And when voting in a second reading or preparing for a second reading, you could actually discuss, remove names, maybe one or the other dates. But given the opportunity to give way to this bill, I think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u72	I see. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u73	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I think the compromise will be that we should have a serious discussion in society, attract scientists, historians, set the table for discussion and then formalize a specific decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Right, different views, in one part some heroes, some monuments put, in the other part of Ukraine, others. But we're one family. We look differently, we judge differently. But one must have a document of unification. Once again, scientists, historians, and not politicians must play a key role. That's when it'll be right. So what we're going to do is we're going to take two months and we're going to have a round-table discussion, and I think it's going to give this bill reality and understanding in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u74	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I analyzed here while there were discussions, the number of cards. And considering that our colleagues from the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party will not vote, there is a physical lack of other factions of cards to vote and come back. So please don't insist. Clearly, we need to think about how to move on. And I suggest we move on to the second reading, the more so that the next bill, I see, is very consistent with the name. Therefore, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products in Ukraine. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products to the indicators established by Ukraine's legislation and standards]] Second reading. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, Land Affairs of Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u75	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 2 December 2009, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Milk and Milk Products, submitted by the People's Deputies Zubc, Ribuk, Kirilenko. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products to the indicators established by Ukraine's legislation and standards]] [[Registration number 0923]] [[of January 31, 2007]] The bill aims to improve the provisions of the Law on Milk and Milk Products, which deals with the quality and safety of dairy products and the inadequacy of the regulatory framework with international standards. It is also suggested that the requirements for obtaining operators’ operating permits for the production of milk, milk, and dairy products be strengthened. As well as dairy products for special children’s meals, diets, and others for certification of milk production. It is envisaged to establish a more stringent control mechanism for the activity of the operators, such as extending the scope of production reagents, for example in connection with the change in the appointment of the host subject. Thus, the adoption of this law will contribute to the production of quality dairy products, the protection of consumer rights, and the release of Ukrainian products into the world market. In Ukrainian legislation, there is still an unjustified duplication of functions in the exercise of State control, as well as in the issuance of operating permits by health and veterinary services. In doing so, current legislation requires the removal of duplication of functions of public authorities, and one of the basic principles of state policy on the issue of the liberal system in the field of economic activity is the reduction of the level of government regulation in this area. The committee adjusted the draft in line with the current legislation in order to eliminate duplication of functions in the exercise of State control services and to ensure its continuity. Thus, the granting of permits for the production of milk and milk products is distributed depending on the continued presence of this service or any other service, that is, the direct exercise of State control over the production and compliance of the requirements. During the preparation for the second reading of the bill, 35 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies were made to the committee, and they are fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u76	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u77	Total or partial 25 counted, rejected 10. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products to be adopted in the second reading and as a whole as a law. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products to the indicators established by Ukrainian legislation]] [[Registration number 0923]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u78	Thank you. But stay, you will comment on the amendments. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the amendments. Please open a comparative table, I'm all reading, if there's a reference to confirmation -- both by count and by deviation. The first one is counted. No comment. The other one. Fishlegs are accounted for. Third Deputy Rizukka. Counted. The fourth Rizukka. Counted. Fifth Petrenka. Declined. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Sixth Petrenko. Declined. Seven Rizuk. Counted. The eighth of Lukyanchuk. Overruled. Does the deputy insist? Rice 9 — What Is the Bible’s Viewpoint? Counted. The tenth of Bachite. Counted. 11th Petrenka. Declined. There's no Petrenko, I get it. The rice is counted, Lukyanchuka is counted. 14th Petrenko is dismissed. No one insists. Rice 15th. Counted. 16th Rice. Counted. 17th Lukyanchuka. Counted. 18th Petrenka. Declined. 19th Rizukka. Counted. 20th Rice. Counted. The 21st of the Baytays is taken into account in an editorial way. 22nd Rice. Counted. 23rd Petrenka. Declined. 24th Rizukka. Declined. 25th Rice. Counted. The 26th of the Baytay has been rejected. The 27th Chersun is listed as an editorial. Don't insist. The 28th rice is accounted for. 29th Bachelor's is dismissed. 30th Red Riding Hood accounted for. 31st Lukyanchuka counted. 32nd Red Riding Hood accounted for. The 33rd Red Riding Hood is accounted for. The 34th Red Riding Hood is accounted for. 35th counted. 36th partially counted. All of it. 35th counted. Dear colleagues! If there is no objection, we may still have listened to Scorchenko Anatoly Fedorovich as deputy minister of the APC, and then we will make a decision. Thank you. Anatoly Fedorovich, please take the position of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. Turn the microphone on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u79	The position of the Ministry is that we need to support this Law as a whole, it will help us improve production, quality of production, and it will meet the requirements of the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, since the committee's rapporteur and the national MPs whose amendments have been rejected have not insisted, and the Ministry of the APC is asking for support in the committee's position to vote in the second reading and in general, I have no choice but to propose that you vote in favour of the draft Law amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products, in the second reading and in general. [[on the quality and safety of dairy products by the indicators established by Ukraine's legislation and standards]] Please vote [[17:11:54]] For three hundred The bill was approved. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, Reporter, Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny, please. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] [[second reading]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u81	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, honourable deputies, distinguished voters! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads was adopted by Parliament following the first reading on the basis of May 20, 2009. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government was entrusted with the task of drafting the prescribed bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subjects of the right to legislative initiative, and submitting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. At its meeting on February 17, 2010, the Committee considered the comments and suggestions made by the Ukrainian National Deputies - Burlakov, Derkac, Karmazin, Kluc, Klulikov, Podgorny, Sinchenko. A comparative table for a bill containing 126 amendments and suggestions has been prepared by the Committee for second reading. I would like to remind you that the bill that was adopted provided for the establishment of an electoral system of an absolute majority in cities with a population of more than 75,000 inhabitants. The authors of individual amendments propose to expand or narrow the circle of administrative and territorial units in which such an electoral system is appropriate in the election. The committee, realizing that choosing the electoral system for each type of local election is a matter of political relevance, the final decision will be taken by Parliament. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the introduction of a major electoral system of absolute majority in the election of all city heads. It should also be noted that the proposed amendments to the bill not only apply to the text but also to the provisions of the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban, and urban heads. However, they were submitted to the committee until the day the Ukrainian Act “On Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” became effective. [[No. 1861-6]] [[of February 10, 2010]] The committee decided to support the amendments. Because they fill in separate gaps and inconsistencies in the law that have arisen due to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters. Also divorced at the time of the holding of the next parliamentary and local elections. As a result of the committee’s consideration, bill 85 amendments and proposals were included, one partially counted, and 40 were rejected. Please note, too, that for technical reasons under Amendments Nos. 49, 79 and 110, the comparative table does not refer to the name of their co-author, Ruz Mikli Fedorovich. However, these amendments were included in the final text of the bill. A comparative table prepared by the committee. It was programmed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority without notice. The committee recommends the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u82	Complete, please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u83	The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads” to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] [[Registration number 3051-1]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u84	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Dear colleagues, once again, I focus on what the reporter said. It's 126 amendments. And that's why I'm suggesting that I just focus on the rejected amendments, not on the ones that are taken into account. Is there any objection? And according to the addicts, who would like to focus their attention on voting in a special way, we'll take a walk. Yes, the second amendment of the Cadillac is rejected. Sergey Petrovich, don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u85	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u86	3rd Amendment, Gordienko. Don't you insist? Please, Gordon's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! I would still like us to put it to a vote and vote in the session room on the content of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u88	You want me to read it, yes. Maybe you'll comment on your amendment and I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u89	Well, what I'd like to say is that in the text of the bill, it's the same thing as 75. I think it would be the best thing for Ukrainian society to stop at the cities of district subordination by setting a dot and taking such a unified approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u90	Sergey Petrovich, comment and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, the point is that we have so many different cities that we have cities of district importance. For example, with a population of 8,000. And there are cities of district importance, for example, with populations of 20 to 25 thousand. So to take some kind of boundary on the basis of the district value, the area value is not allowed, we think. Considering a numerical feature, as proposed by 75,000, the question arises, today 75,000, tomorrow 74, what difference does it make? So the committee decided to recommend it by most, but if it did, it would be for all cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u92	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this because there are a few more rejected amendments here that apply to this standard. I am now the Key Jury of Bogdanovich, then Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Yuri Bogdanovich, please, regarding your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u93	Thank you. It was very hot on the committee to discuss the issue of who should be subject to the principle of a major two - year system. There were several options, and one of them followed the number of votes, although the proposals were very different. I'm still in the position that the category of cities where the two-storey system is used needs to be limited. It's a rather expensive second tour, and it's a small town, a city of district importance, where the price of the question isn't that high, I think it's just a little bit expensive, too generous. So I would like to support either the option proposed by the third amendment of “the city of district and republican in Crimea” or my fourth amendment, which limits, not the inhabitants of the city, but the electorates. From that point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u94	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u95	from the point of view that the number of voters can be accurately established according to the National Election Register. So I'd like to support either a third or a fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u96	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u97	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Sergey Petrovich, I am addressing you and the other drafters of the bill and the members of the committee. I remind you of history. The struggle for this bill was quite persistent and long - term. We, those who signed this bill, including Martinyuk, signed it by finding a compromise that we are declaring two-hour elections only where there are no less than 75,000 people. As a result, he was accepted in the first reading. I didn’t understand the position of the profile committee, which, by breaking the agreement, decides to adopt the law he wants. To your health, accept it, but without us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u98	Sergei Petrovich, your opinion, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u99	My opinion is that every MP had the right to make an amendment. And if the amendment came: delete the words “75,000 people”, I emphasize, “man”, it is the right to life. If it had not been for a “man” but, of course, for the “electors” as proposed by Yuri Bogdanovich, this might not have arisen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, Sergey Petrovich, I don't think you're answering correctly because it's about principles, strategic things. I remember this discussion, too, and if there was a desire for a non-principle "man" or "electors", because really when we started talking about this bill, it was about cities where, in elections, let's say, in district centres, 10, there were 20 percent, not villages, small towns and so on. Oleg Zarubinski and we will now vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u101	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Sergei Petrovich, there is a very simple way out. Adam Ivanovich is right, if a standard was adopted in the first reading, and the committee decided on the basis of an amendment to disavow it in fact, the amendment must now be voted for by 226 votes. If she doesn't vote for her, there's a first-reading option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I'm about to conclude, Vladimir Mikhailovich will continue. Then Oleg Zarubinsky is right, because the point is that we should go the other way. We must then vote in favour, confirm the committee's amendment. So now I'm looking for a committee first amendment. So I'm putting it to a vote, so I'm correcting the 1st Sergey of the Upper, and I'm commenting accordingly that if she doesn't get 226 votes, then we're left with an amendment of 75,000, and then we're going to move on to the law. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 1. Please vote. [[17:23:03]] For-58 This means that the amendment is not confirmed, so we have article 2, paragraph 8, in the first reading. So we're automatically going to skip the 3rd. Three, right? I'll bet on the vote 3 amendment of the national MP, Gordonka. Please vote. [[17:23:44]] For 122 I didn't get the votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u103	Now the 4th Amendment of Yuri Klukkowski. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u104	Thank you. I've already argued with her. The point is that the number of voters is easily established on the basis of the information provided by the National Electoral Register, while the number of inhabitants is estimated by the statistics. So I would suggest that we support so that we can determine exactly where the system is being applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u105	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u106	Well, given that we have a standard that was adopted in the first reading, 75,000, the committee now supports this amendment. We discussed this on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u107	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 of Jury Klukkowski. [[17:24:48]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Order of the 5th. Victor Sinchenko, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u108	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u109	Kirilo Kulikov, 6th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u110	I made a compromise amendment because there were a lot of disputes about population -- what the committee representative said: 75,000 or 74,900. How are cities of district or republican significance? It's a lot of cities. These are cities with a population of 8,000, 10,000. I brought only the city of Kiev and the district centers. That is to say, this amendment refers to the holding of two-track elections in the major cities of Ukraine. I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u111	Please take your position with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u112	The committee does not support this amendment. If the 75,000 is left, the concept needs to be preserved, as it was in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u113	I'm betting on Amendment 6, Kirilo Kulikov is the author of the amendment. [[17:26:19]] For-28 The decision is not taken. No correction supported. Amendment 7. People's deputies, Podgorny and Klukkowski, are you insisting on her? Please, Yuri Bogdanovich, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, this amendment was rejected by the committee in view of the adoption of the first amendment, which did not have a population criterion. However, the question remains: How is the city’s population set at what point? This amendment suggests determining at which point the data determine whether there are 75,000 people or not. So it is related to the concept that is now being adopted. I think it would be appropriate to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u115	The committee won't shut down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u116	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u117	The committee does not object to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u118	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 7. [[17:27:31]] For a hundred and The decision is not adopted, i. e. an amendment is not supported. Amendments 8 and 9. No one insists that. It's on it. Did they vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u119	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u120	So the 10th, the 11th, the 12th, the 13th, counted. 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, counted. 18th, 19th, accounted for. 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd. Now we're looking at some adjustments. The 51st amendment is rejected. 47th you say, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u121	Yeah, page 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u122	Ah, 47th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u123	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, I propose that the first part of the seventh part of article 63 read: “The names of the local party organisations, the blocks in the electoral bulletin shall be placed in the order determined by drawing, which shall be carried out by the territorial electoral commission with the participation of representatives of local party organisations not later than 26 days before the local elections. [[blocks]] In the voting ballot in the multi-mandate district, the drawing number of each local party organization is indicated, the full name of the respective local party organization and the names of the local party organisations that formed the electoral block. [[block]] [[block]] Names, surnames, parents of the first five candidates in the deputies included in the electoral list of the local party organisation. [[block]] Between the number of each local organization and the name of the local party organization, there is an empty square. Following the list of all local party organisations, the voter's ballot reads: “I do not support candidates to be appointed by any local political party organization.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u124	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, the point is that the drafters of the bill on the first reading, what has been voted on, have proposed a different concept. The concept was proposed to remove the norm so-called “against all” or “I do not support any candidate” both by deputies and by city heads. So the amendment suggests that this rule be restored. So the committee did not support it by rejecting it, leaving the concept of first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u126	Vote number 7, author, Yuri Carmazin. [[17:30:28]] For-9 No correction supported. Amendment 51. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose a part of article 77, which reads as follows: “The elective ballot papers in the multi-mandatory constituency shall be marked “+” or another, which shall indicate the voter’s will squared against the name of the local party organisation, for the candidates to vote by which he votes. In the event of non-supporting candidates from any local organization, party, block in a multi-mandatory district, the electorate makes a mark of “+” or another that testifies to the will of the electorate in square against the words “I do not support candidates for deputies from any local political party, electoral bloc, local organizations, political parties”. In the election ballot papers in the one-maned constituency, the elector makes a mark of “+” or another that testifies to the voter’s will in square against the candidate’s name for which he votes. In the event that the elector does not support any candidate for rural, rural, urban or rural positions, he shall make an appropriate mark in square form against the words “I do not support any candidate”. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, this amendment, like the other amendments made by Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, is precisely related to the concept that I said against everyone. If we have voted before in the first reading that we have renounced the count “against all” or “I do not support any candidate”, these amendments need not be voted on. That's why the committee rejects them. Amendment 51, by Yuri Karmazin, is put to the vote. [[17:32:31]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Amendment 54 Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to prevent counterfeiting, forging elections, so I'd like to draw your attention to these changes that I'm going to make in a series of ways. It's 54th. Part 24 of article 68 suggests the following: “The election ballots in the multi-mandate district are placed in places marked with separate plates, which contain on both sides the names of local organisations and parties, the inscriptions ‘not real’, ‘against all’, then the ballot papers are placed in places marked with separate plates, which contain on both sides the names of the candidates in the MPs, separately for each of the mandate areas the names of the candidates in the rural, rural, urban, and for each of these cases with the inscriptions ‘not real’ or against all of them. I think we could do better to prevent counterfeiting. I'd like to hear the committee's opinion, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u131	Well, the committee may once again comment that this rule also applies to whether we leave the norm “against all” or not, I do not support any candidate. We've decided with you on the first reading that we're taking this rule down and that's why all of these amendments, once again, the People's Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich apply to this norm, to leave or not. He suggests leaving, the committee rejects these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u132	I'll bet the vote on amendment 50. And you don't insist on the next? 54, 55 revisions are removed by the author. 56 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u133	At the 56th Amendment, George Carmazin, I propose that we write: “the electoral commission is obliged, in the calculation of the votes of voters in the constituency of the constituency, to check whether the number of voters voting in the constituency in this district is equal to the number of invalid ballots in the constituency of the constituency of the constituency in this district, the voters’ ballot votes submitted as candidates in favour of each local organization, party or block, and the number of ballots in which the electors did not support candidates to be appointed by any local organization. In the event that these data are not correct, the electoral committee shall draw up an act to determine the reasons for such a distinction by the decision of the electoral committee, which shall be signed by the members of the electoral commission present. This act has the right to sign the organization's authorized persons, the party's MPs, their trusted persons, the official observers from the local organization, the party, the bloc. [[blocks]] The signatures shall be stamped with the seal of the commission.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u134	Please take the position of the committee and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u135	Well, I've already commented, I have nothing to add. This amendment, as well as 57, 58, 59, 60, also applies to the issues of “I do not support any candidate” and “against all”. The committee rejects these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u136	Yuri Klukkowski, please, on this occasion. Okay. Yuri Klukkowski, please, then we.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u137	Thank you. The point is that the amendments proposed by colleague Yuri Karmazin suggest a return to the law in force today without any deviation. The edition adopted in the first reading provides for the exclusion of the voting position so-called "against all". All these amendments apply only to this subject, and no other subject is affected. So it seems to me that after we voted three times and didn't support it, what's the point of others voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u138	Dear colleagues! The author deletes his amendments to 60, so we don't vote. Amendment 62. It also doesn't make sense. Yuri Anatolyevich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u139	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I came from exactly what I wrote to you in the law that I don't support the concept in this regard of refusing so-called negative voting. We're showing you double standards. For the presidential election, what concept did you take? You know. That this graph was. Now you're suddenly changing the concept. You don't give people the opportunity to be normal. So if you don't support it, it's your right. I'm asking you to take these amendments off 62 and 64, but I'm warning you that we need them in that sense, and 66th also, and 66th also.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u140	And the 69th, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u141	I mean, we set double standards. In some elections, we have some standards for others. So let's talk about the Electoral Code where the same standards for all elections would be established.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u142	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Accordingly, the amendment 69 and 70, which refers to the same thing, are removed. The 73 amendments are removed accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u143	And 75.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u144	And 75 is also coming off. Yeah, it's coming off because it's about the ones who didn't support it. It's made logically, Yuri Anatolyevich. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u145	The 75th Amendment, George Carmazin, refers to the proposal for part two of article 73, which the elected MP, the rural, village, city head is considered to have received the majority of the votes cast by the electorate, in relation to the other candidates who were running in the district, and provided that the number of votes cast for it exceeds the number of votes that did not support any candidate. I mean, if this person wasn't voted for, if most people wrote any other signs, he doesn't have most of them. This is what I came out of when I proposed this amendment. I think she's normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u146	But then you have to have a graph that I don't support any of the candidates or any of the parties. Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u147	Yuri Anatoliyovich, there will be no record of the "I do not support any candidate". And then how does this figure have where to take it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u148	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, with this rule we already have court practice. In the 2006 elections, there was one case where the winner of the city’s election received fewer votes than was voted against. He was not recognized as the chosen one. He challenged this position in court and won, and the court declared it to be his chosen head. And since there is such judicial practice, it simply reaffirms once again the unproductive position of voting against all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u150	Yuri Anatoliyovich, you agree to withdraw amendment 75, 76 in connection with the argument cited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u151	The argument is serious, but I think we still need to unify our position under all the laws. I'm sure that in any case we'll come up with something, and it'll still be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u152	Maybe that's when the Electoral Code has a unified position. We need to fix it. Amendment 80. Kirilo Kulikov, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u153	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say that all of these amendments are related to the elections, that we restricted the election in Kiev and the district centers. And that. That this amendment number 6 was not voted on, so these amendments make no sense right now. But I want to say what's going on right now, we see that there's no amendment going through, and this law that we've worked so long together, we've all supported. And I don't know what to do in this situation to encourage colleagues to be more careful and with greater respect to the citizens of cities, to our electorates. So today this law can be broken, and it will be very embarrassing. They worked on it for over a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u154	Then you insist on voting because there's no point? Thank you. Amendment 82 cannot be voted on either, as that idea is not supported. Oh, no? Thank you. Eighty-six lashes. It's Kulikov who insists. Eighty-seven, respectively. So let's move on. 97th, 98th loses. Yes. Yuri Bogdanovich, 116th Amendment, do you insist on it? Yours and your son's amendment. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u155	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u156	Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, and colleague of Burlakov, 126 amendments, 133, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. No, they don't. So we've looked at all the amendments. Please, a closing statement from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u157	Well, the committee's offering to accept it in the second reading as a whole. In principle, the concept of first reading, taking into account what we voted on, did not vote more faithfully on the amendments that had been made, and was almost entirely preserved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u158	Please, for the reasons of the vote, Mikhail Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u159	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Since no amendment by Jury Anatoleevich Karmazin has really improved the bill. It was not supported by the BUYT, the bill was simply cooled out, I repeat, no amendments to Carmazin BUYT were supported. The bill is cooled down, and it just makes no sense to vote on it now. It's laughing dicks! Carmazin's amendments had to be supported. We propose not to vote on this law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u160	Dear colleagues! Kirilo Kulikov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u161	I'm really impressed with the support of my colleagues in Mr. Carmazin's position. But what I'm saying is, we have to support the position of voters who live in cities. And when a city head is chosen for 6 percent, when it's possible to privatize voters, when it's possible to bribe them, and then see what's happening today, for example, in the capital of Ukraine, it's embarrassing. It's embarrassing for the Presidential Party to have a president in a capital that is not a European capital. So I'm asking you to support all your colleagues in two rounds. It's democratic and it's European.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] Please vote. [[17:46:02]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a vote on sending the draft Act, registration number 3051-1, to read again. [[17:46:30.]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water, Heating, and Water Supply Facilities, registered number 2320. At the same time, I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, of a letter from the Committee on Construction, Urban, Housing and Regional Policy. The Committee on Construction, Urbanization, Housing and Regional Policy requests that the bill be postponed because of the need for further harmonization with the Ministry of Housing and Utilities. What Are the Thoughts? Is there no objection? Is there no objection? We're putting the bill on hold. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of their number (registration number 3676) is being tabled. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Valérie Baranov. [[B in m in s a l in]] But there's no transfer letter. Yes, do you have Valery Baranov? Is there no reporter? So, are we putting it off or what? I am announcing a draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks. [[Registration number 3643]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plitnicków Alexy Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u163	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks, which goes on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u164	We continue the evening session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u165	The bill is written by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, of course the previous Cabinet of Ministers. This bill is designed to create and develop innovative infrastructure in technology parks. In particular, it is envisaged to amend article 8 of the Ukrainian Law “On a special regime for the innovation of technological parks”, which will allow technology parks to channel partially the cost of special accounts, also to the creation of innovative structures that will provide services to participants in technology parks and other subjects of innovation from the development and implementation of innovations. The Economic Policy Committee considered this second reading at its meeting on March 30, 2010. Four proposals were made to the bill, all rejected and the general conclusion of the committee – this is to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept on second reading and in general. So there's an amendment here, there's a corresponding table, if there's a question there, we can do it as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u166	That's the first amendment. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u167	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to think about the name of the law you're adopting. I propose to change the name of the law to: to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks. Since it is necessary to change the definition of the new term “innovative business incubator” in article 1 of the law that you are initiating. Part one of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on a special regime for the innovation of parks is to be supplemented by the term used in this law. For the purposes of this law, terms are used in such a sense as a new paragraph. An innovative business incubator is, I write, a structural unit of technology that performs functions that ensure the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, including a private business for commercial implementation of ideas aimed at promoting the development of products based on new technologies according to the technology park profile. That's my offer. So the name has to be changed and it has to be changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u168	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u169	This amendment is rejected for such reasons. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a bill amending the Ukrainian Innovation Act 3337 of 6.11.2008, which provides for the definition of an innovative business incubator and the Technology Transfer Centre. Therefore, it is not advisable to include such definitions in the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment No. 1 of Yuri Carmazin. Take off the vote, please. Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u171	Dear colleagues! Yuri Carmazin. I'd like you to think about what argument the committee has written for us. I don't care, I understand, the secretariat wrote. And such a recommendation is that Kabmin be presented with the draft Law on Change, which will once be defined. Can you imagine it or not? When I'm defining the law today, and we're saying that someone is going to buy something. What are you laughing at? Can such reasoning be given as serious reasons from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Is this a legal approach? Or maybe it's Kabmin who can pass, and three years from now, we can take something or we can look at it. Or maybe we won't. Why are we doing this? I'm talking about the name, first, and the definition of "what is an innovative business incubator," which is already defined in the world. And I wrote it and I'm asking you to consider it. And that's how we argue the deviation of the supply. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u172	Amendment No. 1 of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote. [[17:53:14]] For-30 Correction not supported. Amendment number 2. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u173	Amendment number two, Carmazin. I propose to add a new paragraph to the first part of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks: “The creation and maintenance of innovative business incubators, by removing mention of transfer centres in technology financing by the state of technology, should lead to an increase in the production of high-tech modern products, which is competitive in the world market, and not for sales abroad of technologies, which then return to Ukraine as a new product. Because technology transfer centres are actively cooperating to select Ukrainian know-how technologies and implement them outside Ukraine to foreign companies." By the way, that's the end of the quote. I'd like you to mention that we've been adopting and reviewing the government's socio-economic development agenda today, and there's also, indeed, a dotted liner, but there's something they want to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u174	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u175	This amendment is also rejected for the following reasons. Technology transfer centres are making technological advances primarily in the internal market of Ukraine. The sale of technology abroad is to take place in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities. In doing so, technology transfer contracts have to undergo state expertise and register.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u176	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin. [[17:55:14]] For-29 No correction supported. Next amendment to the 3rd People's Deputies of Logwinenka, do you insist on it? I can't see. 4 Amendment of Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u177	Yuri Carmazin. By the way, the 3rd amendment of the logwink is also appropriate, but it's not. I propose to complete the draft with chapter III, “The End of Positions”. And here I want the authorities to listen carefully. To complement chapter II, part two, as follows: “Prohibit the implementation of know-how technology developed at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine and the local budgets created in Ukraine on the basis of the budget of the former USSR or USSR, including those alienated during the privatization of state or municipal property by a joint venture with a foreign capital company and outside Ukraine by foreign companies. And to complete chapter II, part three, as follows: “The Cabinet of Ministers will provide for a six-month period of restoration to state ownership of copyright on tectology and know-how, which have been developed at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine and the local budgets, or created in Ukraine by the former budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u178	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u179	This amendment is rejected on very simple grounds -- it has no relation to this law. These changes should be made to laws that regulate the use of intellectual property rights. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u180	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 Yuri Carmazin. [[17:57:07]] For the 17th. No correction supported. Thus, honourable colleagues put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and generally a bill amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks. [[Registration number 3643]] [[17:57:50]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Given the number of votes cast “yes”, there is obviously good reason to argue that the bill has been rejected. The draft Law amending the Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Pay-per-view or the Recognition of Bankruptcy (Registration No. 2088) has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u181	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is brought to your attention by a bill submitted by Deputy Novík's Yulia Volodymyrative of the Party of the Regions, which proposed to amend the Law of Ukraine amending the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payability or Bankruptcy (for the purpose of carrying out the business-borrower's (bankruptor's) management, developed for the purpose of a clear, detailed settlement of the legal relationship with respect to the management of the borrower's business (bankrupt) in the event of a permanent cessation of the procedure of the recovery or the recognition of bankruptcy of such that there is no debt, and can continue its entrepreneurial activity until the appointment of the head of the management bodies, the debtor-bankur who has no debt. So this is a situation that is not defined in current legislation. Three suggestions came from the author of the Novakova bill. They're all accounted for. The chief judicial office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. Therefore, the committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u182	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority has no comment on the draft bill prepared for the second reading. I would like to vote on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Pay-per-view (registration number 2088). Please vote. [[18:00:15]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is a vote. I'm voting for a motion to return to the draft Act, registration number 2088, for a return to the draft law. [[18:00:42]] For 238. We're back. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the draft Law, registration number 2088 on second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[18:01:08]] For 239. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u183	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, here is our colleagues, the Dove, the Hare, and Behwaaz, in the fight against poaching, if you don't mind, a very important bill. Not ready?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, in fact all the amendments received a positive conclusion from the committee, two amendments are Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on them?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u185	Yuri Carmazin, this is part of my correction, and I can agree, because I feel sorry for both the pigeon and the hare, and I need to save nature. So if there's a consensus in general, I won't insist, if there's no consensus, then I'll insist on 20 and 21 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u186	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatoliyovich agrees that if we agree to adopt this law, we should withdraw our warnings. Let's take this bill, support nature and the people who care about it. I beg you, let's vote. Dear colleagues! There's a vote coming. On adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] Please vote. [[18:02:54]] For 318
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u187	Well done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-15-m1.u188	Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will begin the 10 o'clock session, it will be an hour of questions to the government, answering questions of opposition and national MPs after the opposition will be Minister of Agrarian Politics of Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich. Yeah, thanks for the job.
